ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u1	Minister, as was recalled in an article in L'Écho on 19 March, there are still several obstacles to facilitate the revival of activity in the head of the bankrupt self-employed. Being able to recover in life, in general, whether you are independent or not, is important. A second chance for bankrupt entrepreneurs is essential. But who says to revive a new activity says to open a bank account. A lawyer explained in this article that "as soon as you are stamped bankrupt, the banks close their doors, while having an account is a necessity to be able to pursue a professional activity". Several contacts have already taken place between representatives of the independents, the government, including yourself as Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance, and the federation of the financial sector Febelfin, without much results. I've already questioned the Minister of Finance, who sent me back to you. Minister, what was the result of these discussions with Febelfin? At the legislative level, banks cannot theoretically refuse to open an account unless they make detailed arguments in connection with the risks of money laundering and tax evasion. It is a legislative framework that we voted in the past legislature. Where are we in its application? Can you give me the figures of the number of refusals to open a bank account in 2020 and 2021 by sector of activity or by bank, if possible, in order to understand the reasons for these refusals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u2	Every week, Minister, there is a sector in this committee which seems to have a problem opening a bank account. Let me list the most important ones: the crypto sector, the diamond sector, the antiques sector, the embassies, the jewelers, the NGOs, the ones working in Africa, and now the people who have gone bankrupt in the past. Let it be clear, this is an important problem for our country, as banks are increasingly excluding more and more sectors. I am afraid of the economic damage that this will cause. The banks have a position of economic dependence. This means that they can decide for themselves and have a lot of power over what is possible in the financial system. This, of course, requires important decisions to be taken in order to limit this economic damage. We have adopted legislation on the basic banking service for companies, which will enter into force shortly. However, I do not think that this is the best solution, because it is still only a basic banking service, with, for example, no credit card and no payments in other currencies, except in US dollars. Thus, if someone is active in Africa or other countries, payments in the local currency will not be possible. The basic banking service should therefore be reserved only for companies which have actually misunderstood something in the past. For most of the sectors I listed, it's just people who want to make the most of it and want to have a bank account like everyone else. What are the options for dealing with this problem as quickly as possible? Are you willing to think with us about a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u3	Mr President, honourable Members, as you have just recalled, since the entry into force of the Act of 8 November 2020, there has been a new legal framework providing for a basic banking service for companies that encounter difficulties in opening a bank account. The idea is that a company must have a payment account in order to carry out the payment transactions necessary for its activities and thus participate in economic life. But I hear, Mr Freilich, that the mere benefit of a basic banking service could, no doubt, be insufficient for a number of companies and organizations – you mentioned some –. As you know, the law of 8 November 2020 provides that after three refusals, the company may apply to the Chamber of the Basic Banking Service, which will appoint a banking service provider if it turns out that the rejection by the banks is not justified. In addition, the bank must disclose the reasons why the client was refused or for which the service was terminated, with the exception of cases in which the bank made a statement to the Financial Information Processing Unit, in accordance with the Law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and on the restriction of the use of cash. In order to give full effect to the Act of 8 November 2020 and to lay down the conditions for the exercise of this right, an implementing order must be adopted. I had begun this work and forwarded a draft decree to the Legislative Section of the Council of State. This project came back to me because it was considered that the scheme as provided for by the Act of 8 November 2020 was particularly unsatisfactory and particularly in relation to the processing of personal data and the protection of such data, but also that the law as such did not provide a specific legal basis for allowing such processing and ensuring its protection. In a draft bill that was submitted and passed at first reading by the government, I introduced this legal basis. We are working at the same time and at the same time on the drafting of the royal decree so as not to waste any time on the implementation of these important provisions. The various provisions of the law are currently subject to the legislation section of the Council of State. So I hope I can get back to you as soon as possible. As you mentioned, Mr. -Vanden Burre, contacts are taking place with the various stakeholders regarding the basic banking service to companies in order to be able to set up this service as quickly as possible. The meetings were held. You mentioned Febelfin. However, stakeholders did not specifically mention the problem of the bankrupt self-employed. But as Mr Freilich mentioned, there are other sectors of activity and other structures. You have mentioned some NGOs and some diplomatic or consular posts that are currently facing a refusal to open bank accounts. Mr Vanden Burre, I do not currently have figures or statistics on the number of refusals, and even less on the various sectors concerned more specifically by these refusals, but the information given by Mr Freilich is correct. It is indeed the return that I have of the land. Mr Freilich, as far as your question is concerned, the law on the introduction of provisions on basic banking services for companies is intended, inter alia, to allow the opening of a payment service account in order to carry out their professional activities for second chance companies. For example, a company which has been refused a bank account three times will be able to contact the basic banking service room which decides on the appointment of a provider of the basic banking service. Under this law, an obligation to state reasons for credit institutions which have refused to provide minimum payment services to an undertaking was registered. The reasons must be given at the request of the company. With regard to a general obligation to state reasons, I can say that a general obligation to impose on credit institutions seems a good idea, but could be contrary to the law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the restriction of the use of cash. My cabinet is currently analysing this aspect and we are at our disposal to discuss this issue thoroughly with you in order to find a solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is good that the new legal basis comes to Parliament. We will be able to apply it in relation to the GDPR. The law we have passed has objectives in terms of combating money laundering and tax fraud, which we fully support. But this must not prevent a number of people in good faith who have failed in a project to be able to recover in a commercial activity. You have to be able to do the part. Banks cannot take refuge behind this law to practice refusals, which seem to be truly unjustified in certain sectors in view of individual conditions. We will continue to be vigilant on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u5	Mr President, I would like to take a moment to comment on what Mr Vanden Burre has just said. By denying many people and companies a bank account, more cash will eventually be paid or money will be sent through all kinds of shady constructions. We only increase the problem in that way. The obligation of motivation must not be ignored. A motivation obligation as proposed by the European Union, for example, would not be contrary to anti-money laundering legislation if we assumed that the motivation was given to the FPS Economy. The FPS Economy can verify that the motivation is correct and then feedback to the company with the notification that the file has been examined and found to be well founded or unfounded, without taking into account the effective reasons therein. That's a handy way to solve the problem. Europe is also on that track. In our country we have a bigger problem than in other countries, which requires me to be the first to take that step. I am convinced that we would receive the support of the European Commission. I would also like to thank you for seeing with me how we can solve this major problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u6	Mrs. Depraetere is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u7	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u8	The Government has not maintained the draft law to make the acceptance of a cash payment mandatory in the Economic Law Code. It is essential that electronic payments are promoted, but I also want to ensure that the transition is not at the expense of the most vulnerable. As long as the digital divide exists, the choice of payment method must be ensured. Some people just aren't able to pay electronically. The draft law follows an opinion of the European Central Bank of 22 December 2021 on the preliminary draft law requiring the provision of electronic means of payment in transactions in the law of 17 March 2022. The ECB stresses in the opinion that although it generally has a positive attitude towards innovations and developments in electronic means of payment and on-going dissemination in society, this should not be at the expense of the use of payment in specimens in the Member States which have adopted the euro as their currency. Although electronic payment is becoming more and more widespread and should be encouraged, only euro banknotes and debt securities still have legal tender status. The consumer must therefore be able to make a cash payment within the legal limits. In addition, the willingness to promote electronic payments is still the same. The government has decided to repeat these principles in the draft law, but without introducing a new obligation on companies for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u9	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your transparency. I understand that the obligation to accept banknotes was deleted from the draft law. I think we're on the same page. Digital and electronic payments must certainly be encouraged. However, we must also pay attention to those who are not yet able to do so. The introduction of an obligation would be tantamount to a tightening up of the legislation in force, and that does not seem to us to be necessary. I understand that it is difficult to find a balance and we will have to deal with this carefully. In any case, I am satisfied with the present arrangement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u10	Minister, we cannot look beyond the threat of the economic recession. A recession is very frightening for our country, for our prosperity, for our society. After all, it makes for less investment, less work and less government revenue. The inflation forecast is very negative. This has a major impact on hourly wage costs, which will certainly reduce competitiveness. At international level, this is also accompanied by a shortage of raw materials and an increase in energy prices. As Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment, I would ask you to take a proactive stance on this matter. Trying to avoid such a disaster scenario as close as possible. Permanent monitoring and keeping the train on the right track are necessary. Minister, what measures are on the government table to avoid this recession ghost as far as possible? Are you talking to workers' and employers' organisations to reduce inflation as much as possible and to reduce job losses as much as possible? There's so much work. I am sorry that we do not notice so little about activation policy on the ground. Now that there's still work to be done, it's necessary to do something about this. I hope that within a few months we will not have to say: you may shut down your policy, because it is no longer necessary. Minister, this is very important to me. I ask you to take this up and do something about it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u11	Minister, we are getting more and more signals from entrepreneurs who want to temporarily close their business because they are no longer supplied with certain materials due to the shortage of raw materials. It's about food from wood to aluminum. That is a worrying trend. After the corona crisis, entrepreneurs are once again faced with a loss of income, especially if they are forced to close their business. Workers will be on the streets, whether temporarily or not. We are aware that the problem of raw materials exists throughout Europe and that it cannot be the intention to influence the free market. However, we must bear in mind all the warnings of recession: the war in Ukraine leading to the scarcity of raw materials, inflation, rising interest rates, rising wage costs, falling competitiveness. The government's understanding of the seriousness of the situation is demonstrated by the recent appointment of an expert group to accompany it in the economic crisis. This group will monitor the situation nationally and internationally and make recommendations to strengthen the purchasing power of families and the competitiveness of businesses. Do you know for yourself about companies that want or have to close the doors temporarily because of a shortage of raw materials? How will you counter the threat of recession? What concrete measures do you intend to take to restore the competitiveness of our businesses and maintain our level of prosperity? How did the composition of that expert group happen? How will we, as a Parliament, be involved in this? Does Parliament have access to their opinions? By what time should they deliver their opinions to the government? How many times will this group get together?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u12	As in many other developed economies, the government faces the challenge of protecting both the purchasing power of our citizens and the competitiveness of our businesses. As Mrs Houtmeyers rightly said, the government has set up an expert group on purchasing power and competitiveness. The task of the working group is to provide the federal government with recommendations and proposals to deal with the inflation and economic consequences of the war in Ukraine. The group will meet regularly under the chairmanship of the Governor of the National Bank of Belgium. At the same time, the social partners will also address this issue and will also draw up recommendations and develop pistes to address the challenges. The aim is to enable the federal government to identify the extent of the economic shock, to analyse its evolution on a permanent basis, to assess the share of households and businesses affected and to act on concrete solutions. I would like to remind you that the government has already taken important measures, such as the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity in order to reduce inflation and protect purchasing power and, of course, the social tariff. The government has also approved an ambitious relaunch plan that will help our economy through the crisis. In order to reduce prices, the Government has strengthened the Belgian Competition Authority. The positive effects must be felt in the long term in our economy. For example, the Competition Authority has recently imposed twice a fine of more than EUR 30 million each. In the context of the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine, we also extended temporary unemployment due to force majeure at the end of June. Mrs Houtmeyers, I do not yet have the data on the number of workers who have become economically unemployed because of the war in Ukraine. A task force has also been set up to specifically address the problems of the agri-food sector in the light of the crisis. Recently, we have already provided a solution to the problem of labelling. This will prevent an interruption in the supply of certain foodstuffs without endangering the health of our citizens. In this way, we have prevented a crisis in the sector with shortages for certain foods. If further measures are to be taken to safeguard our purchasing power and the competitiveness of our exporting companies, this will have to be done in the next few days in cooperation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u13	I believe that effective enough is being done to support purchasing power, which I fully follow. Activation is definitely supporting purchasing power. I am still hungry, because I am convinced that I will not have to ask my question about activation after construction leave and summer and that we will find ourselves in a different situation. I hope that you will understand the seriousness and urgency of this issue and that the expert groups and the social partners will not delay, but will immediately take small steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u14	Like my colleague, I've also been starved by a lot of unanswered questions. We were already aware of a lot of things. I would remind you that two years ago we also discussed problems in the transport sector, in particular the problem of the containers that had to come from China. Then you said there was no problem. We then talked about price increases and shortages of raw materials. You also said that there was no problem. These answers were probably from economists to the Cabinets and the study services. They are certainly capable people, there is no doubt about that. However, these people are not in the field, they do not feel and experience what we feel. My colleague also said that there is a great deal of demand on the labour market, but that supply cannot follow. We are in danger of heading for so many bankruptcies that many people will be on the streets. That's what my colleague was referring to. I have examined the composition of this group of experts and I have found that there are mainly professors and officials in this group. These people certainly have a lot of knowledge, but from the office, from the university, from the study service or from a cabinet they do not have the same involvement with the field. That is what we said two years ago with regard to container prices, transport prices and price increases. Apparently, they don't listen to that. I would have thought, first of all, that there were at least lessons from the past, so that people would certainly be involved in practice, because they are more in touch with them. That is absolutely not the case. You also say that these people must come up with concrete solutions. However, I watched the meeting on Friday and heard an expert speak. He literally said that we had to take a little of those who took a lot to give to the others, who have less. That's what's gonna make my hair stand up. I therefore hope that we do not go that way. So there's still a lot of work to be done. I am also disappointed about the composition of this expert group. I am also very curious to see what will follow. I hope you guys made the right choice. However, that is not my belief at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u15	Minister, on 2 February the Federal Planning Office published its annual report on additional welfare indicators. They are tailored to the sustainable Development Goals. In summary, the report shows that our country is not doing so well. If current trends continue, only 16 of the 51 indicators examined will be achieved by 2030. Within your domain, the long-term disability, the number of people with a living wage and the risk of poverty do not evolve to the desired goal. In the field of mental health, there is a historical low. During the presentation of the report, the Planning Bureau concluded that additional efforts are needed to achieve the SDGs and that current developments in Belgium are fundamentally unsustainable. Have you taken note of the report and what is your response to the results? How will it further affect your policy? The report provides the opportunity to have a transversal reflection on the entire Belgian policy. Has the report been discussed in the government in that sense? Do you believe that the worrying results, for example about mental well-being or loss of biodiversity, require a clear response? Do you believe that the worrying results show that policy needs to take into account much more than classical economic indicators, such as GDP and debt? Could you please consider how the results of this report are used by other public administrations to steer policy changes? Finally, you are also responsible for the implementation of the Federal Economic Action Plan. This plan defines the roll-out of circular economy as crucial to achieving the SDGs. I agree with that. Therefore, indicators will be developed in collaboration with the Planning Bureau to map their evolution. Where are we on the roll-out of these indicators? Will they be integrated into the annual report? What steps will you take to ensure that they are more than just a reporting exercise and also a policy change?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u16	Thank you, Mr Vanbesien, for your question. I have indeed read the report and the results effectively show a deterioration of a set of indicators. Unfortunately, the succession of the corona crisis moments and the inflation we are now facing have made this situation even worse. The fight against this problem is essential to me. For example, we have already taken a series of measures to combat energy poverty and seek to preserve purchasing power, especially for the most vulnerable. In 2021, the Council of Ministers also decided to systematically screen each Minister's policy papers each year, in order to assess how the proposed measures contribute to the achievement of the United Nations' sustainable development objectives. I am convinced that we need to take into account indicators that are broader and more representative of the well-being of the population than just gross domestic product or debt. I have always kept that in mind in my role as Minister. It's been part of my party's program for years. The Federal Action Plan for a circular economy includes a measure to develop a long-term strategy to monitor the circular economy. One of the elements in that strategy will focus specifically on the possible development of new indicators. At international and regional level, the theme is also being worked hard. It is important that this is complementary. Integration into other annual reports will also be discussed during the development of the strategy so as to allow for future long-term sustainable cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We have long been convinced that we need to focus on indicators other than economic growth, debt and gross domestic product in order to assess the state of the country and society. You would point out that this has been in your party programme for many years. I know that, that's right. I hope this also applies to the entire government. We have therefore decided to monitor and report on the other indicators a long time ago. In the meantime, this is happening very thoroughly. I am glad that the Planning Bureau is coming to Parliament to explain the results on an annual basis. During the presentation of a few months ago, however, the Planning Bureau indicated that it felt that the report and recommendations were not or were not sufficiently taken into account in the government's policy plans. You state that it has been agreed that each policy plan will be screened for the SDGs and indicators. So I look forward to the policy papers in the autumn, to check whether this is actually the case. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament 55027202C by Mr Bombled, who is not present, lapses. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 55027291 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u19	Minister, a few days ago the bank accounts of Belgian clients of the German neo-bank N26 were brutally closed. The bank refers to errors in updating the system as well as suspicions of irregularities to justify these closures. But panic has spread to hundreds of Belgians who have an account in this bank. In the April 26 newspaper L'Écho, it was read that neither the SPF Economy nor the FSMA received a complaint from customers. Yet, thousands of N26 customers come together on Facebook and Whatsapp to help each other and exchange advice to deal with these account closures. How many people are affected by these bank closures in Belgium? Have you received any complaints since April 26th? Do you have any contact with the bank in question? Do you confirm the reasons for the closure mentioned by the German neo-bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u20	My colleague, I confirm that to date, my administration has not received any complaints on this matter. It should be stressed that Bank N26 is a German online bank offering its services in Belgium in accordance with the principle of free movement. In this sense, my administration is not competent to intervene in the case of a German bank. According to the information provided, this would be a technical error and every effort would be made to solve the problem as quickly as possible. However, as you mentioned, the information relayed by the press raises questions. In my view, a contact should be made by the National Bank of Belgium with its German counterpart. I will follow the situation closely even if I do not have direct jurisdiction over a German bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u21	Minister, have you not been informed of the date on which the accounts will be restored? Not even in relation to that? What other means do you have to act because here it is about irregularities. If this is just a technical problem, they should be restored soon enough. I can imagine all those customers whose money is blocked! They must feel bad!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u22	I share your concern about the situation of the customers concerned, but in the case of a German bank, I have no power of action over this institution except, as I mentioned, to relay the concern to the National Bank of Belgium so that it can itself, from its German counterparts, obtain information and above all ensure that the situation is restored as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u23	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u24	A distinction must be made between the code of conduct itself and the addendum to the code of conduct requested by the catering industry and the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. Although the work on the addendum was suspended in November and therefore has not yet been completed, I can inform you of the following. Firstly, the addendum applies only to the quota for the supply of beverages and the impact of the corona crisis on those quotas. Secondly, non-compliance with the quota for the supply of beverages during the covid period will not lead to financial penalties or other sanctions by brewers or merchants, with the exception of one particular case. Thirdly, the period during which the volume had to be reached will be extended as far as possible. Finally, the Signatories to the addendum strongly encourage prior mediation and alternative dispute resolution. There is also the code of conduct, the revision of which should start after the agreement on the addendum. For this purpose, an evaluation report was prepared by the FPS Economy at the end of 2021 and sent to the different stakeholders. I am pleased that the brewers, the drink merchants and the catering sector have recently responded positively to an invitation from my cabinet and from my colleague, Minister Clarinval. A meeting will take place on Monday 9 May to resume work on the two projects. My administration has recently received no complaints from disadvantaged operators. Any complaints can always be addressed to the secretariat of the FPS Economics Conciliation Committee. To reach agreement on the addendum and to review the code of conduct is a priority for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u25	I look forward to the results of the meeting on Monday 9 May and will certainly continue to follow up on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u26	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, the fight against over-indebtedness is something that I am particularly concerned about. Unfortunately, the consequences of the energy crisis and the war in Ukraine make it difficult for more and more people to pay their invoices or pay them in good time. As you know, invoices that remain unpaid are growing very quickly due to the additional costs of payment reminders, as well as reminders from debt collection offices and bailiffs, increasing debt and burdening people with even more debt. In 2019, for the first time, I put a legislative proposal on the agenda to address this issue. We've had some good discussions about this. There was great support for doing something about it, for example through a free reminder letter or reducing recovery costs. After that, the government came. At that time, the government agreement included the fact that there would be effective action on over-indebtedness. We are now in 2022 and, given today's situation, I think it is more necessary than ever to take action. Your policy paper includes the fight against over-indebtedness. That is also one of your priorities, which I am very pleased about. In January 2022, you indicated that you are working on a bill. This would normally be submitted to the Chamber by September 2022. Given the current crisis and the fact that a lot of people are still struggling, I would like to ask you a number of questions. What is the state of this bill? What measures will be included in this bill? Will you also provide for the reform that the first letter will be free, as included in the government agreement, and that the recovery costs will also be capped? What steps still need to be taken to bring the draft law effectively to the Chamber? Have stakeholders been consulted? When can we expect it here in the Chamber? Will the timing of September 2022 still be met? What additional initiatives will you take in the short term to deal with over-indebtedness in order to reduce it and protect consumers? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, the first part of the preliminary draft law in the context of the fight against over-indebtedness is currently being finalised in consultation with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. It will soon be submitted to the special advisory committee on consumption within the Central Council for Business. It will probably also have to be submitted to the Data Protection Authority afterwards. I hope to be able to submit the draft law to the government before the summer recess and then submit it to the Chamber in the autumn after the Council of State's opinion. However, this timing also depends on the speed with which the advisory bodies will give me their input. Without prejudging the content of the preliminary draft, I can confirm that, as stated in my policy statement, the freeing of the first reminder and the capping of costs are two essential points.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for the answer. I am very glad that you say that the first reminder letter is indeed free and that there will be a ceiling on recovery costs. I think that's very important. That was also in the bill we discussed here. I really hope that the timing can be maintained. I know it is not obvious, but consumers are really waiting for clear agreements to be made. It does tickle a little bit to go further with the bill. We can actually arrange that very quickly, once we have an agreement on the free reminder letter and the recovery costs. We are already taking a step forward. So we're on the same wavelength, only one can go a little faster than the other. So we're going to think again about how best to do this. In any case, thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u29	Thank you, Mrs Dierick. Anything can be taken on board here. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u30	Minister, I would like to return to the impact of digitalisation on access to banking services. Last year, in consultation with the banking sector, you drew up a Charter for the universal banking service to ensure the affordability of basic banking services and to curb some harmful price developments. At the same time, the seventh management agreement with Bpost focused on access to ATMs. The previous discussions that we have had show that these initiatives are not enough for you either. They do not break the underlying evolution in which banks use digitalisation to transfer costs associated with their social role to citizens and government. They drive up their own profits and cause damage because other actors are less able to bear that burden. As citizens, we are collectively the victims of this, but especially the most vulnerable people who are digitally less literate or do not have access to the digital world, such as elderly people, are affected. Do you believe that the solution should be that banks themselves ultimately bear the cost of ensuring access to all banking services? Is the Charter properly respected so far? Are there any complaints or concerns about that? What measures will the government take this year to ensure that vulnerable people have access to human contact with bank employees? By when can we expect that? In order to understand the cost of the way banks carry out digitisation, consultation with the Minister for Social Affairs seems appropriate. Children of older Belgians, people engaged in civil society and certainly also OCMW employees today support many of those vulnerable people in carrying out banking operations. Does the government map these efforts and those of social workers and volunteers? What evolution does that show? Will this be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u31	Mr Vanbesien, the universal banking service is offered at a maximum flat-rate cost of EUR 60 per year, i.e. EUR 5 per month. The maximum price applies for the duration of the Charter, until 30 June 2024. Costs may increase by up to 6 euros per year during that period without exceeding the total cost of 60 euros per year. This amount is the result of consultations with the sector. Banks providing the universal banking service should also disclose the exact content of the services and tariffs offered on their website and in their offices through the fee information document. I am aware of the difficulties some consumers face with technology. That is why, together with my administration, I am seeing to it that measures are taken to ensure access to banking services for all citizens. In particular, this is the Charter's objective of universal banking service aimed at consumers who do not have the right equipment or digital knowledge. I will therefore ensure that the Charter is applied and respected by the sector, and I will continue to work to bridge the digital divide without preventing or slowing down further digitisation of payment traffic. Unfortunately, I do not have any figures on any complaints regarding universal banking services. Your last question does not fall within my competence, but within the competence of Minister Lalieux. I invite you to contact her about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u32	Minister, I myself am very much in favour of digitalisation, including in the banking world. Let there be no doubt about that. I am also very sensitive, however, and I know that you are also responsible for monitoring the accessibility of financial services to all, including those who are digitally less literate or have less access. The universal banking service is a good thing, but it only makes sense if people have access to an office or a vending machine. That is, of course, a condition. I am convinced that digital and analogue will have to go hand in hand for a long time to come. As we move forward in time, it will be increasingly moving towards the digital, and so banks, which are commercial companies, will increasingly try to repel the non-digital or to roll over on others. Here comes the social role of the banks. They must remain responsible for that task. It is up to the government to remind them of this and to make agreements on it over and over again and to follow up and monitor it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u33	Mrs Ponthier is not present, but Mr D'Amico is present, as always.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u34	Thank you for your sense of observation, Mr. Chairman! Mr Minister, I read in Le Soir that you are currently working on a draft agreement to filter out foreign investment following a request from the European Commission. This mechanism applied to "investments that could affect public order or security in Belgium or in other Member States such as energy, transport, water, communications, aerospace or defence-related infrastructure". Can you tell us which countries are targeted by the filtering you want to implement? For example, are the United States likely to be affected by the filtering of these foreign investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u35	Mr President, on 6 April the Commission published a communication on the guidelines given to Member States concerning foreign direct investment from Russia and Belarus in the context of military aggression and the war against Ukraine. The Commission has made an urgent appeal to those Member States that do not currently have a filtering mechanism to set up such a mechanism as soon as possible. Belgium has been working for several years on the creation of such a screening mechanism. Given that the federated entities are also involved, the choice was ultimately made for a cooperation agreement to take account of both public order, security and strategic investments, and thus federal and other responsibilities that fall within the Federated entities' level. That is why we wanted to work on a logic of cooperation agreements with a mechanism that takes account of these different concerns which, in Belgium, fall under different levels of power. It seems to me absolutely essential to have a single mechanism for screening foreign investment and to avoid having different mechanisms depending on the level of competence. Having a single procedure is also a demand of the economic world. You have read the article in Le Soir and therefore you are largely familiar with the details of the mechanism as envisaged. The countries or origin of companies wishing to invest in Belgium is not a criterion of appreciation. We are obviously talking about foreign investment outside the European Union. They will be subject to screening regardless of the country of origin. You know what thresholds are being considered. These would be different depending on the sector of activity and the degree of strategicity of the different sectors. My will is to be able to achieve this cooperation agreement as soon as possible. That is why the item will be included in the Consultation Committee on 1 June to obtain, I hope, an agreement from all the parties around the table. Today, only Flanders is left to convince, as the other governments of the federated entities have agreed on the proposal as I have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u36	Thank you, it's clearer now. I thought it was just a new attraction of your policy for protectionism. But you're telling me that's not the case. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u37	Mr President, Minister, a study by Apache and a report by RTBF last year highlighted how the large factories for the production of frozen fries, croquettes and puree place all the risks on the grower and at the same time cover themselves well against all kinds of unforeseen circumstances. That came in very well. You responded to that a year ago. The method is reminiscent of the strangle contracts that we sometimes see in the catering industry. The large potato processors are proposing contracts for potato growers where the latter are only very close to the cost. It will also be expensive for them to have a disappointing harvest, because if producers cannot deliver the agreed volume, they will usually have to meet the shortages at their own expense by purchasing potatoes on the free market. Last year you asked the Belgian Competition Authority to examine the contracts concluded. In an answer to an earlier question from me, you indicated that the investigation was ongoing and that a working group under the direction of the Prize Observatory was set up. That working group should make concrete recommendations. Minister, I know that you have no impact on the concrete timing of the BMA, but can you tell me if the investigation has been completed in the meantime? Has the working group made any recommendations? In the meantime, have you received any signals that the problem is wider than just the potato industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, the BMA's investigation, which was opened on my question, is still ongoing. The Working Group has drawn up a code of conduct for contracts between potato producers and customers, traders and processing industries. That code contains binding points for the signing of contracts and also lays down certain rules to be observed in the contractual relationship. This code was signed by the negotiating parties in November last year, namely Belgodom, the three agricultural federations and the non-profit association Fiwap. The working party has just resumed its work to complete the first code of conduct, particularly in the area of force majeure. The updated version of the Code of Conduct is expected in the course of 2023. My administration has not received any signals about the other speculations, but is monitoring the problem very closely. The FPS Economy also has a supporting role within the supply chain consultation of the food column. In this way, the FPS remains aware of the problems in the various agricultural branches.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u39	If the investigation is not over, you cannot say much about it. I notice that the BMA's investigations always take a very long time. It is good that the working group has done a number of things in the meantime, including the code of conduct. Force majeure is, of course, one of the most important problems. So it would be good to work that out further. You said that there are a number of binding rules, but often it appears that these codes of conduct are not very legally binding and that there is still a loophole to be sought. Let's hope it makes a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u40	Minister, this is an example of a sector where this code of conduct is not being followed so strictly. The code of conduct was signed by the Catering Federations, the Belgian Brouwers and the Federation of Belgian Drink Traders and intended to tackle the extreme excesses. In practice, however, this does not always work well. This was already indicated by the peace judges here in Parliament. Despite the code of conduct, they are very often confronted with matters in which this code of conduct was not respected. In many cases there has already been improvement, but it does not appear to be complete. I have already put forward a bill to legalize this, which offers more guarantees. You and your colleague, Mr Dermagne, have always said that the code of conduct would be evaluated. That happened a while ago. It was also the first time in seven years that she was evaluated, so it was urgent time. In an earlier answer to my question, Minister Dermagne stated that the evaluation is ready and has meanwhile been transferred to the various partners, although with some delay due to COOVID-19. If the evaluation is ready and has already been transferred, what are the next steps? What conclusions do you draw from this evaluation? When will this evaluation be made public or at least transferred to the members of this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u41	Mrs Depraetere, it is true that, in the course of 2021, I, together with Minister Dermagne, started an evaluation of the code of conduct for good relations between brewers, drink dealers and the catering industry. These are the three federations of the country organized at the regional level and recognized by the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. The evaluation report, prepared by the FPS Economy on the basis of a consultation of the signatories of the Code of Conduct, was sent to all participants on 1 December 2021. That report will not be the subject of a special publication. Moreover, on 20 July 2021, the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs issued an opinion on the Code of Conduct. This opinion may be consulted on the website of the Supreme Court. Before proceeding with the evaluation process, we would like to give the signatories time to agree on an addendum to the code of conduct. Its aim is to regulate the legal and contractual consequences of the new compliance of catering operators with the beverage sales quotas in the context of the sanitary crisis. At the end of November 2021, the signatories announced that they were close to an agreement, but that the flares of the sanitary crisis required many of the Catering Federations. I would remind you that the sector was still subject to early closure at the end of last year and that the number of guests per table was limited. My cabinet has repeatedly called on the parties to make progress on the addendum, but so far it has not been possible to formalise it. As a reminder, the addendum must be submitted for signature to me and to the Minister for Economic Affairs. I believe that the delay in the evaluation process is indeed due to the epidemiological crisis which has taken many of the federations for more than two years. In order to move forward with the evaluation process, my cabinet and that of the Minister for Economic Affairs scheduled a working meeting on 9 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand, of course, the Catering Federations which have gone through a very difficult period because of covid. Meanwhile, we're already May. I hope that progress will be made before the summer. I hear there's a meeting next week. So this is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u43	Mr De Caluwe is not here for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u44	Mr President, Minister, as you know, purchasing power is at the heart of all political debates at the moment. We, environmentalists, say rather "the power to live", since it is not only about being able to buy, but also to be able to live, to look after his children, to eat, to have a decent life. It is right that we are dealing with this subject, given the sharp rise in energy prices and inflation. However, self-employed and self-employed people do not benefit from automatic wage indexation, since they are not employed, by definition. Their financial situation could therefore potentially deteriorate rapidly. On the other hand, their situation varies greatly from sector to sector. Admittedly, some independents will be able to pass the price increase on to their selling prices. They will be able to go through this crisis somewhere. Some others, such as the liberal professions, will probably be able to adapt their tariffs more easily than, for example, restaurants. The latter will face significant increases in their energy costs. I am thinking in particular of the ovens, the fridges, the equipment of the Horeca. In other words, the self-employed most exposed to energy costs are likely to be the most affected. That's where I wanted to hear you. Minister, have we been aware of the evolution of the energy bills of the independents, by sector, since the beginning of 2022 or since the end of last year? Are these data available by sector? If not, how can we get them? I think it is interesting to have this data available for objective analysis. Are there any measures under discussion or preparation within your firm or with the government to help independents and independents in a targeted manner? I stress, of course, the need to be able to target possible aid measures for those who, by virtue of their activity, will be most affected by rising energy costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u45	Mr Vanden Burre, you are absolutely right to point out that rising energy prices have a serious impact on self-employed workers whose incomes do not benefit, as you have pointed out, from the indexing mechanism, unlike those of wage-earners; so the rise in prices has a diffuse impact on our economy and all sectors are affected. Of course, I agree with you, the impact is more important for more energy-intensive companies. With regard to the determination of the evolution of the energy bill of the independents by sector since the beginning of year 22, I would like to refer you to my colleague Tinne Van der Straeten, the competent minister, to answer questions on this subject. In response to the general rise in energy costs, on March 15, the federal government decided to reduce VAT on electricity and natural gas to 6%, as well as lower excise duties on diesel and gasoline. The government has also introduced a single automatic discount on the €200 bill per home for all households that heat up oil, propane or butane. This also benefits the self-employed in a private capacity. In addition, as a result of the sharp increase in fuel prices, the Government invited the Group of Ten to prepare proposals for the employer's financial intervention in the home-to-work or employer journeys by the end of April. They must aim to offset the increase in transport costs for workers in 2022 without this proposal increasing the cost to companies. It is true that we are already in May, but I do not despair that the Group of Ten can respond to this request. The government also asked the group of ten to consider how to further encourage the use of train and public transport to move from home to work. In addition, in order to intervene directly to counter the increase in energy costs for businesses, the Government also asked the Group of Ten to prepare a proposal to mitigate the rise in energy prices for businesses, based on the results of the National Bank study. In order to better guide price policy, the government has, as I have just said, asked the National Bank for a study to analyse the impact of the current situation on the various sectors in more detail. On this basis, the Government will assess, in consultation with the social partners, the policy measures which may be envisaged, in particular with regard to the energy bill. Furthermore, the Central Economic Council is invited to analyse in depth the impact of rising energy and raw materials prices on the economic and social situation, also trying to identify the reasons for a difference in the price increase between Belgium and its neighbouring countries. Finally, you also know that with my colleague Dermagne and my colleague Eva De Bleeker, we have set up a Ukraine task force that receives a whole series of requests from the sectors, particularly in connection with the crisis in Ukraine. These sectors make a wide range of applications. These will be consolidated and analysed by the government in the coming weeks in conjunction with the above-mentioned studies, namely those of the National Bank, the Central Economic Council and, hopefully, the proposals made by the Group of Ten. Work in progress if I can say but I hope we will be able to achieve a whole series of solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u46	Minister, thank you for all these elements. I did address the question to the Minister of Energy, but I have no concerns. With regard to the other points, I find it interesting that the Group of Ten is working and coming with proposals. I was also thinking of the group of experts under the chairmanship of the President of the National Bank, including Paul Legros and Philippe Defeyt. It would be interesting to have their opinion on the subject because our analysis is that a whole series of independents – I am thinking in particular of self-employed individuals – are in the sectors most affected by energy increases. For us, it is essential to imagine targeted solutions. I do not want to go here into general solutions for all sectors but I think that in a targeted way, we could imagine solutions or mechanisms that can directly protect the most fragile in relation to the increase in energy, a bit like we do for individuals with the social tariff. One could imagine a measure that follows the same philosophy for the most affected independents. In any case, these are things we will come back to and, if necessary, we will support. This is indeed a reality in the crisis we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u47	Mr Minister, I would like to return to the very interesting presentation of your policy paper in November, when we talked about short-chain producers and the fact that they are often confronted with difficult rules. Let me give you the example of a chicken keeper who has 200 chickens and has to comply with the same protocols as his colleague who has 200,000 chickens. You said at the time that you were aware of this and that you and the BFSA would consider whether we could develop a different route for the short-chain producers so that they have less administration. If I understood correctly, you would entrust a working group within the BFSA with this. On 14 May the Week of the Korte Keten will start in Flanders, in which the short-chain producers make extra effort for ten days to get in touch with their customers and customers. I hope you can tell us more about the work that is currently being done within the BFSA, so that we can bring good news to the producers in the Week of the Korte Keten. Those producers have been working in a different dynamic since corona and are more in contact with customers. They look very much for your decisions, that their work and their administration may be lighter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Creemers, at the end of February the BFSA set up a working group on Korte Keten with the main aim of identifying all current difficulties or uncertainties in the short chain and, where necessary, questioning the current requirements for operators and further improving cooperation with stakeholders. Together with the representatives of the sector federations, the Agency intends to seek constructive solutions that are supported by all those involved in the short chain, taking into account the legal framework. The work is done in three phases. In a first phase, the problems and uncertainties concerning food safety in the short supply chain and the participants of the working group were identified. On the basis of the input of the sector federations, three themes were described, which the working group will address in greater depth: the different steps in the chain, the impact on operators in the transition to recognition and slaughterhouses on farms. That phase is now complete. In the second phase, the BFSA gathers together with the participants of the working group more information, concrete questions and problems regarding these themes. In a final phase, the BFSA will organise brainstorming sessions with the participants of the working group to discuss the different themes and to find solutions that can be accepted by everyone. The BFSA wishes to come to a constructive cooperation and discussion, with due regard, of course, for the European legislation that is not under discussion. Based on the conclusions of the Korte Keten working group, the BFSA will formulate any proposals for regulatory adjustment or controls in the form of an action plan. At the start of the working group, the sector federations concerned indicated that it was important to be able to discuss all the issues in depth in order to draw up a well-developed action plan. The BFSA is therefore aiming for a finalised action plan during the autumn of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u49	Minister, I welcome this update. Much work has already been done, especially if the action plan can land in autumn 2022. In that case, I believe that we are achieving the objectives, so that the short-chain producers can get on with it. I would also like to stress what you yourself say. European legislation on food safety must not be called into question anywhere. I think that has always been a misunderstanding between us. We want food safety on two tracks, leading to food safety. What you are realizing here is the second track that I have always had in mind. We've never been on the same page there. But this is exactly what the short-chain producers need, which both farmers and customers are asking for. I am also very pleased that "slaughterhouses" have been identified as one of the themes. Indeed, we hear very often that very large volumes of animals have to be processed in order to keep it profitable for slaughterhouses. If a food-safe and administratively light procedure is found for this, I think we are moving in the right direction. I would very much like to come back to this in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u50	Mr Vicaire is not here for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u51	Mr President, I would like to thank the secretariat for putting this question on the agenda. She went back and forth between different committees, so I'm very happy to have them today. Within two weeks, a committee will be organised at European level. The dossier on the level of protection of wild bees is ahead at European level. You will not be surprised that we are making a fervent plea for wild bees and pollinators because they are the basis of our food production, such as fruit, cereals, nuts and pulses, and that their necessary presence is confirmed in all scientific studies. We've already talked about the honey bees. For honeybees, a threshold of 10% reduction in the size of honeybee colonies was set by Member States for 2021. For bumblebees and solitaire wild bees, the European Commission has proposed not to set such a threshold. Then we would return to the situation that led to allowing neonicotinoids. We are convinced that without such a clear dropout rate, it is very difficult for risk assessment and risk managers to make good decisions. We believe that a maximum reduction of 3% of the population of wild bees is a safe margin. A lot of scientists also stress that. Many wild bees are declining and unlike honey bees there is almost no one who cares about their recovery. What is your position on the European Commission's proposal not to set an acceptable harm threshold? What position will Belgium take? What is the percentage of reduction in the size of colonies for bumblebees and solitary bees that you support at EU level? What scientific arguments do you put forward for this? I have always assumed that honey bees belong to your jurisdiction because they are registered with the BFSA as food producers, but there is a link to biodiversity for wild bees. I therefore wonder how cooperation with the Minister for Climate and the Environment and with the Länder is going in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u52	Mr President, Minister, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission are currently discussing the acceptable level of loss of wild bee populations and pesticide-related pollinators. The European Commission had asked EFSA in May 2019 to revise the Guide to the Risk Assessment of Plant Protection Products on Bees published in 2013. As part of this review, EU Agriculture Ministers set the 10% specific protection target for honeybees. We talked about it last June and at that time, if my memory is good, you had defended the logic of protection with a 23 per cent threshold, which surprised us, sparking a small debate. The revision is still under way and, after defining the Specific Protection Goal (SPG) for domestic bees, the parties are now focusing on the definition of GSPs for bumblebees and solitary bees. In this document, EFSA states that the level of knowledge on wild bees is insufficient to define a GSP based on environmental variability and suggests the possibility of applying the same GSP as that decided for honeybees, i.e. 10%. However, it is known that wild bees are even more vulnerable than domestic bees, on the one hand, and that many species of wild bees are declining, on the other hand. Given the lack of knowledge about wild bees, and in particular the real impact of the protection threshold that will be defined, the precautionary principle would be legitimately expected to apply and a lower threshold assigned. Minister, my questions are very simple. What damage threshold does Belgium support in the Standing Committee on Pesticides to be held on 17 and 18 May? When will the final decision be taken by the Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u53	Mr President, as part of the review of the EFSA's Bee Guidance document, it has already been agreed that honey bees could be used with a so-called specific protection goal of 10%. It is also intended to use this Bee Guidance document to evaluate the risk to bumblebees and solitary bees in order to protect these species. The EFSA report clearly shows that the data for variability in population size of solitary bees and bumblebees are not adequate. There are two options for risk assessment. Either a percentage value of colony decline or population size is recorded, or an undefined treshhold, such as for the evaluation of aquatic organisms, is used. However, to be able to capture an undefined treshhold, sufficient information is needed, so that the chosen value has a good scientific basis. The necessary data are currently not available for solitary bees at all and for bumblebees only to a limited extent. In the option of an undefined threshold, each study is examined individually and a decision is taken taking into account the statistical power of the study. Working with an indefinite threshold therefore does not mean that damage to populations of bumblebees or solitary bees will be accepted. In the case of bumblebees, we consider, on the basis of the available information, that the threshold approach defined at the same level of 10% is preferable. However, we could accept the Commission's proposal to work with an undefined threshold. In addition, we support his reasoning that further studies would be useful. With regard to solitary bees, there is virtually no scientific information available to determine what value would be acceptable. In the long term, our preference is to be able to work with a defined threshold for both solitary bees and bumblebees. My department has therefore asked the Commission, both orally and in writing, to put in place the scientific studies necessary to generate the information required for that purpose. We have also asked her to inform us of the date on which she intends to take a formal position on these proposals. The intention is to consult all competent authorities about them through the appropriate procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u54	Minister, I understood that the European Commission gave us the choice between determining a percentage of reduction and working with an indefinite threshold. Now I understand that there is a third option, and I can certainly support it, namely to make a decision on it only once we have more scientific research. I was just afraid that you would reason: we don't have enough data, so we're going to work with the indefinite threshold. It's true we don't have enough data. We need those dates for a decision. So we can support this option. I hope that the European Commission will not ask Belgium for a position on this on 17 or 18 May, because that can only be determined after sufficient scientific research. If it works for the honey bees, it should also work for the solitary bees. Many gardeners and environmental associations are working to lure them to their gardens and nature reserves, just because we consider them so important. They will certainly be asking party to cooperate in those scientific investigations, because we cannot make that decision without the right dates. I am sure that we will all agree to achieve a maximum loss of 10% for these bumblebees and wild bees as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. I obviously join my colleague, Barbara Creemers, in stressing the relevance of your approach to requesting further studies. It was really the right step to take because, as you said yourself, making decisions without visibility about impacts had no meaning at this point. It is therefore expected that Belgium will not stand for the moment. That's a very good thing. As an ecologist, I allow myself to push a little further, not for pleasure but for the protection of biodiversity. I would point out that BeeLife, the European beekeeping coordination, is calling for a threshold of 0%. As wild bees are already declining, we must be as ambitious as possible, which obviously means 0%. Let us welcome, however, the fact that additional studies are expected. I am sure that these studies will show us that the 0% threshold is the one that needs to be maintained. Again, Minister, thank you for your approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vicaire's 55027317C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u57	Mr President, I have divided the question into two parts because I thought it was very important to discuss it with you, Minister. The war in Ukraine raises many challenges, including in the area of food. When one goes to the supermarket today, one sees that baking oil and flour become desirable goods. I read that this is why you decided a while ago to relax the rules on labels. I think that's good. However, I am also concerned about families who have already had very difficult times because of energy prices. Now they are also faced with an additional challenge due to rising food prices. I saw tables last week that showed that pasta has become more than 20% more expensive. I also hear everywhere around me that more and more people are having trouble reaching the end of the month. I have four specific questions about all short-term measures. I read a few things in the newspapers about the relaxation of labels. However, I would have liked a little more information on this. What products are we talking about? Have you decided how long the relaxation will last? Do we see that it contributes to reducing the scarcity and price pressure? The shortage of sunflower oil also increases demand for palm oil. From an ecological point of view, we always look a little reluctantly at palm oil, as it involves a lot of ecological challenges. Countries producing palm oil also react very protectionist. They mainly protect their own markets. This, of course, creates another demand for other oils. Do you have an insight into the international projections? What can we do about it? With regard to food security in the short and long term, I am afraid that the richer countries will buy up and store everything in larger barns and that this will put pressure on countries in the Global South. Are you working with the Minister for Development Cooperation to ensure access to food not only for us, but for the whole world? Have you also considered short-term initiatives to support food banks? I also hear from the food banks in my neighbourhood that they are seeing an increasing demand for food and cannot answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u58	Mrs Creemers, the relaxation measures on labelling aim, in the absence of a European framework, to meet, at Belgian level, the needs of food producers in terms of continuity of production, without ignoring consumer information. Companies that are able to adapt their packaging or labels immediately to a change in the composition of their products as a result of the crisis in Ukraine should do so. Companies that cannot change their labelling are asked to indicate the changes via a sticker on the packaging. Companies that are not able to apply a sticker should transmit the information about the adjustments to the FPS Economy via a dedicated website labelingderogation.economice.fgov.be. The consumer, who is also informed about the relaxation via posters in the shops, can at any time read the information on the changes made to the composition of a product on the packaging or consult via economics.fgov.be/en/themes/sales/regulation/labelling. In all cases, both food safety and clear and transparent information for consumers must be guaranteed. Therefore, the indication of the adjustments to the packaging, including by means of stickers, is made mandatory for changes relating to allergens, nutrition and health claims, nutrition labelling for specific groups and any other elements that may affect health. The relaxations are currently only applied to sunflower seeds and their derived products, such as sunflower oil. The list of products may be extended according to the economic situation. The derogations shall apply from 26 April 2022 for a period of six months. An evaluation is foreseen after four months, after which the deadline may be extended. The relaxation of labelling requirements creates the possibility for companies to use alternative ingredients instead of those to which there is a shortage due to the war in Ukraine. For example, they can keep their products on the market without having to interrupt their supply due to inappropriate packaging or labelling. Such an adjustment is, after all, a time-consuming process. It also prevents the packaging industry from being over-examined and thus forming a bottleneck. The fact that the measures give businesses the opportunity to introduce some flexibility in production ensures that consumers are not confronted with scarcity for certain products, as scarcity would lead to price increases. However, this is independent of the fact that price increases for certain raw materials are being established worldwide for various reasons. Of course, I regret that Indonesia has decided to apply a full embargo on exports of palm oil from Thursday 28 April 2022, of which it is the world's largest producer. Given the scarcity of sunflower oil, due to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, many countries wanted to replace it with palm oil and soya oil. Indonesia accounts for around 60% of world palm oil production, one third of which is consumed in the country's domestic market. India, China, Pakistan, but also the European Union are among Indonesia's main export customers. I therefore expect that this decision will further contribute to the destabilisation of an already peaking and volatile vegetable oil market. The European Union confirms in its Communication of 23 March 2022, "Ensuring food security and strengthening the resilience of food systems', that it will strongly advocate, inter alia, in international fora, the avoidance of export restrictions and export bans on food. In this context, the European Union also believes that coordination within the WTO will be essential. At national level, I have structured a consultation with all the links in the food chain through the creation of a Task Force Ukraine. The daily exchange of information with the agri-food sector ensures a monitoring of the evolution of supply in Belgium. The task force's aim is to anticipate possible deficits through pragmatic and flexible solutions. International negotiations and agreements are conducted and concluded by the European institutions. In this context, the Council of European Agriculture Ministers plays an important role in strengthening the agri-food chain workers in Europe and outside Europe. My colleagues from the Federal Government and the Regions and myself are defending the proposed measures that support access to food for all. Perhaps this was a somewhat long answer, but it is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u59	Minister, I had already divided my questions, because if I had put all these issues together in one question, it would have been much longer. Thank you for your detailed explanation. The principle is the same as in the previous question. We can allow a limited relaxation, but you stress that we do not give in to things like allergens and health claims. If a temporary change in the labels can help, then we must certainly allow it. It is a good thing that an evaluation is built in after four months and that the measure may be extended. As far as palm oil is concerned, I share your analysis for one piece, but it will not surprise you that I actually hope that the current situation will lead to an evolution in our diet. After all, even on European soil, very healthy vegetable oils are produced, but farmers get far too little money for that. I hope you have good contacts with your Italian and Spanish colleagues. In the south of Europe, there are massive losses of olive oil plantations. If there is a fair price for olive oil, we have a very good alternative to palm oil in the very short term and with limited food kilometres. I am convinced that from an ecological point of view, but also for our health, it is much better to consume more oil from close to home rather than palm oil from the other side of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament 55026583C and 55026584C by Mr De Caluwé were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u61	Mr President, Minister, another consequence of the scarcity of the food market is that the Green Deal and the Farm to Fork strategy are under pressure. You will not be surprised that we are looking at this a little cynical. More local and organic production is not only a response to the food crisis, but also to the climate and biodiversity crisis. The Green Deal and the Farm to Fork strategy provide a perfect response to these crises, but are now under pressure. The lobby of fertilizer and pesticides exert enormous pressure to lower the ambitions of the Green Deal and the Farm to Fork strategy. We have already discussed this issue with Minister Khattabi, but I would also like to present it to you. Will you put the Green Deal and the Farm to Fork strategy on hold or confirm its ambitions through the pressure on our food prices and our food supply? How can you and will you guard against continuing the ambitions of the Green Deal and the Farm to Fork strategy in the coming months, both at national and European level? How will you work with the minister responsible for the Green Deal and biodiversity for this? The Länder are responsible for a significant part of the implementation of these strategies. How is cooperation with the Länder working on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u62	The conflict taking place at the gates of Europe shows the shortcomings of our globalized agricultural model. The impact is strong on food prices. Since the beginning of the war the delivery of raw materials from the Black Sea has been stopped, from which 30% of the world cereal market normally originates. The stability of the markets is strongly affected. Prices have risen by 88% since the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u63	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister in office, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u64	Mr President, first of all I will point out that there are two ways to translate Farm to Fork: one can say "fork fork" or "farm at the table". You see that creativity is in power, since these two expressions do not mean the same thing. [[Laughter]] [[)]] As you know, the Regions are responsible for the CAP and the Farm to Fork Strategy. At the European Agriculture Council, Belgium, like other Member States of the European Union, wonders how the European Commission will take account of the new geopolitical situation in the European agricultural strategy. Belgium supports the European objective of reducing carbon emissions. The war in Ukraine reminds us of the geopolitical importance of agriculture. This crisis reminds us once again of the importance of safeguarding our European food security. On 23 March, the European Commission issued recommendations to deal with the crisis, including one on tolerance on maximum residue limits, to facilitate the import of animal feed. In addition, in order to intervene directly to counter the increase in energy costs for companies, the Government asked the Group of Ten to draw up a proposal to mitigate the rise in energy prices for companies, based on the results of the study by the National Bank of Belgium (NBB). In order to better guide price policy, the Government has asked the BNB for a study to further analyse the impact of the current situation on the various sectors. On this basis, it will assess, in consultation with the social partners, the policy measures which may be envisaged, in particular as regards the energy bill. Furthermore, the Central Economic Council is invited to analyse in depth the impact of rising energy and raw materials prices on the economic and social situation, trying to identify the reasons for a difference in the price increase in Belgium compared to neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u65	Minister, as with palm oil, I hope that there will be an evolution in our diet and that we will have the courage to look at the long term. I am not in favour of this tolerance in residuals in order to increase food imports. The recommendations formulated on 23 March included a number of positive issues, but also a number of missed opportunities. I know that this is a competence of the Länder, but on 23 March almost all fields still had to be sown. To the pig farmers then say that there will be a subsidy to store their meat until it can be exported again with a more favourable regime is a missed opportunity. We should have said at that point that we would grant a subsidy if the pig farmers were to sow their fields with legumes for human consumption at that time. This was still perfectly possible at the time, also within the Flemish and sub-state regulations. For the long term, we need to ask ourselves whether we want to grow tomatoes in greenhouses all year round, which are heated with fossil fuels. Or are we going, in the spirit of the Farm to Fork strategy, to a local production, close to home, with a direct marketing of seasonal products? In the short term, we absolutely need to support the sectors and ensure that prices do not rise too sharply. But let's also look at the long term never waste a good crisis. In the Farm to Fork strategy there are very good handles to step over our shadows and in the long term to bring about changes in our diet and in our agriculture, which are good for the price, for the farmer, for the climate and for biodiversity. I hope we're all in the same direction that Green Deal and that Farm to Fork are going to do without concessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic772x.u66	Mr Minister, I obviously agree with Mrs Creemers' reply. I would like to stress that at European level there is no real problem of food safety. There are, on the other hand, real accessibility problems outside Europe. We must ask ourselves, in terms of food sovereignty, how we want to produce our food. I would remind you that we rely heavily on pesticides and chemical fertilizers from Russia and Belarus, with 30% for Russian nitrogen fertilizers and 27% for Belarusian potassium fertilizers. If we want to talk about food sovereignty in Europe, we need to get out of our dependence on pesticides and chemical fertilizers. J I think you also have a say in this in the European negotiations, as a federal minister. We ask you to remain as engaged as possible in this debate to protect us from any wandering in the negotiations as a result of pressure from the pesticide and fertilizer lobby.
