ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u1	Madam Minister, on 10 May 2022, the European Union and the UN are organising a sixth conference on the future of Syria and the region, here in Brussels. It is intended that individual Member States, including Belgium, should commit to financial humanitarian and non-humanitarian aid to Syria and its neighbours. The committee adopted a resolution calling on the government to continue to commit itself to providing a financial contribution on the basis of the evolution of the specific humanitarian needs in the Syrian region for the United Nations' flexible humanitarian country funds for the Syrian region. Of the record amounts between €4.4 billion and 6.1 billion budgeted for 2022, only a small 6% has been financed. What are the plans? Will an increase be announced next week? If so, how much will they amount to and what is their justification? If not, how does that fit in with the resolution I have just referred to? Unfortunately, the humanitarian and non-human financial support for Syria and its neighbouring countries will still be very much needed in the coming years, although the exact question is still unclear. How do you prepare that file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u2	More than 11 years after the start of the conflict in Syria, the humanitarian needs in Syria and its neighbouring countries are still enormous. According to OCHA's latest humanitarian review, 14.6 million people in Syria are in need of humanitarian aid. 76% of all families cannot meet basic needs. It is also very worrying that almost a third of all households indicate that their children have to work to make ends meet. So we must not abandon them. Despite the huge increase in humanitarian needs worldwide, I believe it is crucial to maintain our solidarity with Syrian refugees. Syria is a priority country for Belgian humanitarian aid. We are therefore making a significant contribution to tackling the Syrian crisis. Firstly, we contribute to the overall resources of multilateral humanitarian organisations such as ICRC, UNHCR and WFP, which operate in Syria and its neighbouring countries. In addition, we finance OCHA's flexible country funds for a total of 15 million euros. Project funding for this year is still being prepared, but I am aiming for continuity over recent years. Working towards lasting solutions to the Syrian refugee crisis is very important to me. UNHCR is one of our main partners in this area, which is why I decided last year to make an annual contribution of EUR 10 million to UNHCR's general resources until 2023. I also intend to continue funding projects for UNHCR this year. The commitments made at the conference will be followed up through the financial tracking report and an annual state of progress at the conferences. They already give a very good picture of the implementation of the commitments made. The Resourcing Refugee Leadership Initiative and the Regional Development and Protection Programme do not concern humanitarian aid. These are structural initiatives which fall under the right of initiative of non-governmental actors. Funding of such initiatives should therefore be requested under the programme funding of the Belgian NGOs. In addition, in the Resourcing Refugee Leadership Initiative, only one organisation is active in the Syrian region. However, this does not mean that Belgium does not support local civil society. In Lebanon, for example, a programme of 11.11.11 aimed at sustainable solutions for Syrian refugees in that country is being financed. 11.11.11 is, of course, working with local organisations. Our multilateral partners are also making great efforts to provide assistance through local NGOs as far as possible. Finally, I repeat that it is important to continue to show our solidarity with Syrian refugees, but a real solution will only be found if political solutions are worked out. Only then can there be an end to the conflict, which has gone on for far too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u3	Madam Minister, I fully agree that the best solution is to tackle a problem at its roots. I hope, like you, that there will be a change soon. You strive for continuity. I haven't heard any concrete commitments for next week. I am indeed hoping for continuity of policy. The budgeted figures prove the need. I hope that we will all be able to achieve this together, and everyone will have to do their part. Thanks to the continuation of the policy and even more of that, we in Syria can do what is necessary. We often forget, because of the conflict with Ukraine at the time, that 14.6 million people need our help there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u4	Minister, ENABEL's new management contract is being finalized. This is an opportunity to further strengthen, where possible, the consideration of partner country priorities, including local civil societies and final beneficiaries. The issue of alignment remains complicated and, as a reminder, the 2020 OECD peer review report highlighted: "The alignment with the development priorities of these partner countries and territories, the ownership of partners and national systems is declining. This negative development threatens the principles of aid effectiveness, dear to Belgium, and requires reflection on the desired role and involvement of partner countries and territories." Moreover, according to the 2019 Global Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation report, the share of Belgian project objectives aligned with partner country priorities fell from 94 to 40 per cent between 2016 and 2018. There has already been a lot of debate at the time in committee on the relevance of these figures, but they nevertheless give a general indication. This trend is also reflected in the least use of partner country systems, which also fell from 53 per cent to 30 per cent at that time. This analysis is confirmed by the CODA index of the Center for Global Development. According to the latter, "Belgian cooperation wins its worst score" in the area of appropriation. She's in 21st place in the standings. The tool clearly states that Belgium could improve its score by improving precisely the alignment with the objectives of the partner countries. We know of ENABEL's commitment to partner countries, no doubt, and your commitment to you, Minister. I quote an excerpt from your general policy statement in which you announced "a sincere and political dialogue with our partner countries". Nevertheless, ENABEL's contract is certainly an opportunity to further strengthen these commitments. Is a formal and systematic consultation of the national authorities of the partner country initiated prior to the drafting of a new country strategy? Is maximum transparency of documents envisaged vis-à-vis the partner country? It is known that some elements of the documents are sensitive and must remain confidential. Can we share a part of it? What measures will be provided for in the consultation of local civil societies and final beneficiaries? To achieve this, will a common instruction be sent to all ENABEL offices in partner countries to remind them of these principles?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u5	Madam President, I have a number of further questions. In particular, I had questions about the preparation of that new management contract. How is that organized? What stage will partner countries and local organisations be involved in this process? How does that work? How will this new management contract be proposed to partner countries and other stakeholders, both in partner countries and in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u6	Your questions are not insignificant because our work depends on the executive agency Enabel. Firstly, I take very much to heart the comments in the report. At the same time, during my missions, I noticed that Enabel really makes a difference with other countries. We have also grown into a real partnership: we listen to each other, we involve each other in the work and a real process of participation has started. That's a nice experience for me as a minister. I did indeed intend to renew the dialogue with the partner country. The new management contract with Enabel should therefore reflect that intention. Dialogue with the partner country must be continuous. In order to prepare new country strategies and portfolios, it is also necessary to consult with that partner country. This will be done in a very transparent way on the basis of documents shared and discussed with the partner country. The relationship with civil society is important. Already, in Enabel's first management contract, a greater openness was created to collaborate with other actors. I would like to strengthen this relationship with civil society in the second management contract and to focus more on synergies and complementarity. Discussions on the text proposals for the new management contract are still ongoing. As laid down in the law, Enabel's Board of Directors will make a proposal for the new management contract by 30 June at the latest. It will then have to be approved by the Council of Ministers. Once the management contract is in effect, the instructions will be written and sent to Enabel's posts and representations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You do very well to stress once again that our agency makes the difference on the ground. I hope it's obvious to each and every one of us. Indeed, we can be proud of Enabel's work in recent years. That being said, a change in management contract is obviously always an opportunity to reaffirm our priorities and yours, those of your government. I think it is always good to remember that alignment is one of the key foundations for the effectiveness of our work with partner countries. It is not only a key element of efficiency but also a sign of respect for the autonomy of these countries to treat them as partners. Enabel does an excellent job in this capacity. I note, however, with satisfaction that your answer will be that there will be a formal and transparent consultation of countries. I hope that the documents will be public enough to be able to follow this. I also believe that closer consultation and collaboration with civil society is absolutely necessary to further consolidate Belgium's work in the partner countries. Thank you very much for your attention. We show our full support for Enabel and its board of directors for his work in the weeks that remain before the management contract closes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u8	Madam Minister, I would have taken those two points out of your reply. These are two very important points on which you are committed. This transparent way of working together is extremely important in communication and in order to maintain and increase support for development cooperation. That is why transparency is very important. That makes you a spearhead is very good. Even more cooperation with civil society in this area can only increase acceptance. We absolutely need that. I see 30 June as a deadline and then it goes to the Council of Ministers. I propose that we return to this matter just before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u9	Madam Minister, the Prime Minister announced a few days ago 800 million euros for aid to Ukraine and, for your part, you confirmed a humanitarian aid of 5 million euros. Among the 800 million announced by Mr. From Croo, how many will be assigned to your missions? Are the €5 million already pledged as humanitarian aid to Ukraine additional to the development cooperation budget? Or will they be made unavailable for other crises, such as those in Yemen, Afghanistan, the Great Lakes region or Syria? Will additional budgets be allocated to the $5 million already announced? Will they be additional to Budget 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u10	Madame de Laveleye, the €800 million announced by the Prime Minister to support Ukraine will be used to finance various aspects of the Belgian response. The exact distribution of this amount is still under consideration by the government in order to best meet current needs. For my part, I have requested additional resources for this interdepartmental provision for humanitarian aid in Ukraine. The needs in the country continue to grow rapidly and more and more horrible stories come to us. I will participate tomorrow in a high-level international donor conference for Ukraine. I will announce a package of additional aid for Ukraine, amounting to EUR 25 million. A €2 million funding to UNICEF has already been announced and will be taken from this budget. The remaining €23 million will be used for both emergency humanitarian aid and support for basic social services in the country. The €5 million of humanitarian aid already announced comes from an amount of €7.5 million, which has been reallocated to humanitarian aid as part of a revision of the pre-Ukrainian budget. This €5 million is therefore not withdrawn from the 2022 budget for other priority regions such as Syria and Palestine, or Yemen. The additional aid to be announced tomorrow will be financed from the EUR 800 million provision. This is therefore an additional budget which will also increase Belgian Official Development Assistance (ODA). It is essential for me that our support for Ukraine should not be at the expense of other conflicts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. As I understand it, the €5 million already announced comes from a reallocation from the 2022 budget, without being at the expense of other crises. In the meantime, this money will still not be available for other regions in crisis. On the other hand, I am now learning that an additional €23 million will be allocated to Ukraine in addition to the 2022 budget. This is very good news for the Ukrainian population. Of the 800 million euros, 23 million euros do not represent a large share, while the needs that are being negotiated at the moment are enormous. An important focus has been made on defence. I am not questioning this choice, but I think that everything we invest in defence must also be able to put it in solidarity. I hope that this EUR 23 million will be a good signal in this direction. Thank you for having already been able to get this, and we will then see how we can have a better vision of the use of these 800 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u12	Minister, here are the bad questions about the path to growth and the numbers of official development assistance. The OECD has just published development aid figures for the year 2021. It's very recent. I think it was three weeks ago. At the Belgian level, aid increased by 2.3 per cent in nominal terms to reach $2.6 billion. But it fell in relative terms from 0.48 per cent to 0.46 per cent of gross national income. It is therefore a little further away from our target of 0.7%, which we are trying to achieve by 2030. This decline is all the more severe as our official development assistance includes amounts that artificially inflate our results – albeit in a completely permissible way. Indeed, as with many other OECD countries, Belgium has accounted for excess donations of covid vaccines to developing countries as official development assistance. The value of the surplus given and recorded is $32 million and thus accounts for 1.3% of Belgian aid. According to the OECD, if Belgium had not accounted for these excess doses as Belgian aid – as was the case for example in the Netherlands, the United States or Luxembourg – it would have increased by only 1% in 2021. On the other hand, like other donor countries, Belgium still accounts for both asylum-seekers and development assistance. These costs almost doubled in 2021, from $134 million to $251 million. This represents more than 10% of Belgian aid, twice the international average and the highest percentage of the European class. As is well known, Belgium is committed to achieving the United Nations target of allocating 0.7 per cent of its gross national income to official development assistance. Last month, you again confirmed to me that you were working on a path of growth as announced in the majority agreement. Minister, what has changed since your last intervention on this issue? Has your administration ever been able to propose a growth plan to reach 0.7% by 2030? What is the more concrete timing of this process?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u13	In the previous oral questions, I noticed that this is a regular question. We have to make it a good tradition to ask for an update every time. Can you give me that update? When will the proposal for the growth path be ready? When will it be announced? What basic principles will you take into account when drawing up this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u14	Thank you for your questions and your perseverance. Belgium's official development aid lasted in 2021. In absolute figures, our ODA improves more than 2 %. It is true that this represents a slight decrease in relative figures. However, this is due to the shrinking of economic growth in 2020 as a result of the corona pandemic. The fact that we can maintain our solidarity at this level despite the difficult budgetary conditions is a very important signal. Further efforts will be needed to achieve the promised target of 0,7% of GNI by 2030. This year, at least EUR 25 million of additional funding will be made available for international solidarity. These funds are specifically intended for the most urgent humanitarian and social needs in Ukraine. In this way, we will also ensure that we can continue to fulfil our commitments in other crises, such as in Yemen or Ethiopia. With respect to the growth path to 0.7%, there is an agreement within the government to discuss it in the context of the 2023 budget. I will therefore take my responsibilities and submit a concrete proposal to the government in the coming weeks. I am counting on my government partners to support this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. I also count on the government's partners to support your efforts. With regard to the figures, we are in an extremely critical situation. It is gratifying that official development assistance budgets are still there. The 2.3% increase was relativized as vaccines were known to have played an important role. You chose not to use the highest rates to count the vaccines in the count. Some countries would have wanted to be able to account for more. Good, but by holding it, it inflates relatively artificially. We're talking about 10% for the reception of refugees. There is a need for proper reception of refugees in our territory, but this still raises questions. I would remind you that, despite the crisis, some countries are above 0.7 per cent. I am thinking of Denmark (0.7%), Germany (0.74 %), Luxembourg (0.99 %), Norway (0.93 %) and Sweden (0.92 %). These countries do better than we do and must show us the way. We'll try to make it easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u16	It is of course a good thing that the EUR 25 million for Ukraine is on top of the budget. Hopefully, the aid in Ukraine will no longer be needed in 2023, but that additional budget will then be found. After all, this growth path is intended to perpetuate it and not to depend on the additional resources that are spent once. You want to take the growth path with you in the discussions for 2023, so that we're on our way to 2024 and so to 2030. That's the cape we definitely need to reach to grab it. You're counting on the partners. Mr de Laveleye and I will do everything we can to get the partners in the government on your side.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u17	Madam President, Minister, there has already been a fight against polio. One of the concerns was that the covid pandemic would trigger a flare-up of polio infections. It turns out that this is the case when we look at the figures. We have supported a lot of programmes in the past and today. However, many programmes have been discontinued due to the covid pandemic. There is a sharp increase today in Congo and Nigeria, for example. The Global Polio Eradication Initiative indicates that it is now really crucial to focus on polio vaccination. Pierre Van Damme has also advocated the search for new vaccines and resources and the re-launch of vaccination programmes, which are more than needed today. How do you respond to this message and to the confirmation of the fear that covid has cleared the path for polio? Do you agree with the demand for renewed support for vaccination programmes? What is the current status of the different polio programmes? What specific plans do you have in the short and long term? How do you explain the increase in 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Depoter, COVID-19 has also had a huge impact on the functioning of health systems in many countries, in addition to many individual human suffering. One example of this is indeed the suspension of vaccination campaigns in the lockdown periods. Unfortunately, this has had a huge impact on children and other vulnerable groups. According to the latest figures available from the World Health Organisation and the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, polio remains endemic in Pakistan and Afghanistan. In Africa, the situation was a bit more positive. Africa was even declared polio-free by the WHO in August 2020. However, worrying cases of polio have again been identified since then. Infections have been detected in Nigeria and Congo as a result of incomplete vaccination. In Nigeria, 422 cases were counted by WHO and 75 cases in Congo. The WHO calls for an accurate monitoring of the situation, through local health systems, regional cooperation and, if necessary, for urgent access to polio vaccines. I support that vision of working through the local systems. That is the best guarantee of a long-term solution. The Belgian health programmes are therefore aimed at strengthening these systems in order to achieve global, integrated and continuous care. In the case of Congo, this results in the strengthening of the research capacity of national laboratories, as they play an important role in the follow-up to such situations. For polio this is done in close cooperation with the World Health Organisation, but Belgian funding to Unicef is also important, given the important role of these partner organisations in the national vaccination campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u19	(...) than I thought. Madam Secretary, you state that you will follow it, but I believe that it is already time to sound the alarm. We fear that the polemics in certain countries about the vaccination against COVID-19 could blow over to the vaccinations against childhood diseases, including polio. Our administration and the international organisations, such as UNICEF, to which you referred, will have to be attentive. It would be extremely unfortunate that important efforts are leading to a new form of polio, as this is feared from a scientific point of view by the unimplemented vaccinations. At the moment there are more than 400 cases, which is not a huge number, but possibly a start. There will have to be guarded in any case. You indicate that you will support the local investigation teams. That is indeed necessary, but it will have to be closely monitored scientifically.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u20	A great deal has been said and written about the covid vaccines in recent months. Also there I wanted to ask for an update. What about COVAX, but also the local development of vaccines in our partner countries and other countries in the global South? How do you work specifically to strengthen the regulatory framework, improve the quality of local production and train staff? In the previous questioning session, you said that you would like to make the most of these three points. How long will the donation of covid vaccines to other countries take? What's the progress on vaccinating the rest of the world as much as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u21	Since May 2021, Belgium has offered 13.7 million covid vaccines via COVAX. Of these, just over 8 million doses have been delivered effectively. In recent months, there has been a steady decline in demand for vaccines via the COVAX mechanism. At the same time, there is a greater general availability of vaccines in the world. So both are connected. Nevertheless, COVAX continues to make covid vaccines available for a fair distribution in 2022 and 2023. It is currently foreseen that COVAX will remain active until 2023 to address possible questions about vaccines. This is possible if countries adjust their vaccination campaign, for example to vaccinate children. An increase in demand may also occur when new vaccines become available that are better adapted to the latest covid variants. As I have often explained here, Belgium supports Senegal in the local production of vaccines, including through the Institut Pasteur in Dakar. This is done, among other things, by adapting the rules. Senegal has also been selected by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as a potential local producer of covid vaccines and will also be able to receive mRNA technology. In Rwanda, Belgium supports the Rwanda Food and Drugs Authority to obtain a quality label of level 3 of the WHO. This is necessary in order to monitor the production of high-quality medicines and vaccines in Africa. An important focus is on the revision or development of standard procedures. Training is also organised in collaboration with Belgian experts from Sciensano and the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (FAGG). In South Africa, through the WHO, Belgium supports the development of the mRNA tech transfer hub. The main objective is to make mRNA technology available locally and for other regions. The project is progressing very well. Replicas of the vaccine type Moderna have already been made. Arrigen will now conduct clinical trials, after which the production process will be transferred to Biovac, which will have the capacity to produce 250 million doses per year. The license of this vaccine will be granted by the Medicine Patent Pool (MPP) to other producers in countries with low or average income. These producers will be able to produce the vaccine in mass production for national and regional use. I repeat what I said earlier: mRNA technology also has potential against other diseases, such as malaria. The technology hub we support is therefore a broader initiative than just against the current pandemic. It is also a long-term strategic investment to make African countries less dependent on rich countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u22	I can only agree with the latter. That's how the corona period has brought good things. These countries will be stronger, so that we will no longer need programmes like COVAX in the future. So we're on the right track. I hear you saying that there is good progress. I hope, therefore, that they can quickly take up the modified vaccines against the new variants, so that there are no shifts every time and they have to work with leftovers, to say disrespectfully.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u23	Madam Secretary, the terrible phenomenon of rape as a weapon of war is common, including in Ukraine. Last week, a doctor testified that 150 very young girls got pregnant by rape in Ukraine. Perhaps that is just the tip of the iceberg, because we do not know what is happening in the areas in Ukraine occupied by the Russian Federation. The organisations Women on Waves and Women on Web make every effort to get abortion medication in Ukraine, because in Ukraine and Molvavian abortion is legally permitted. However, many women have fled to neighbouring Poland and Hungary, where it is very difficult to get access to abortion. In Poland, abortion is in principle permitted when pregnancy is the result of rape. In practice, however, it is very difficult because aid workers are afraid of persecution. In a number of cases, women died because aid workers were afraid to intervene on time. Members of the 2030 parliamentary agenda ask for extra attention to be paid to the issue and to the sexual and reproductive rights of refugees across party boundaries. What initiatives does Belgium take at bilateral and multilateral level to promote access to these rights for Ukrainian refugees and Ukrainians currently living under Russia's occupation and war violence? What initiatives will Belgium take to ensure that these rights of Ukrainian refugees are also guaranteed in the host countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u24	"Madam the Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u25	2. Will the provision of services for survivors of gender-based violence be financed in neighbouring countries and neighbouring Ukraine for refugees?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u26	Dear colleague, I am very concerned about the situation of women and girls in Ukraine. Being forced to flee, they are very vulnerable and are at high risk of sexual violence and trafficking in human beings. The stories we hear every day affect me a lot. I hope, like you, that this horror will end as soon as possible. As part of our humanitarian funding, protection against, among other things, sexual violence is an absolute priority. To help the Ukrainian population, Belgium has already made a total of EUR 7 million available: EUR 2 million for Unicef's activities, which include medical and psychological assistance, EUR 3 million to support the protection activities of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and EUR 2 million for the Humanitarian Fund for Ukraine. Much is also happening for Ukrainian women and girls by the Belgian multipartners, including on the basis of our core funding. For example, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) has already distributed 40 tons of medical and reproductive material in Ukraine. The organisation distributes kits to women with menstrual products and captures pregnant women in units to provide the most important care. In neighbouring countries, UNHCR is leading the humanitarian response. Belgium supports the organisation with core contributions of 10 million euros per year. Protection against sexual exploitation and abuse is one of the priorities of their regional response plan. The World Health Organisation also supports the health systems of Ukraine's neighbouring countries, where hospitals are under great pressure. Finally, I would like to mention the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), who is present on the ground to document war crimes, including sexual violence. Those crimes must never go unpunished.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u27	Madam Minister, it is very important that we continue to use this as a country. You are indeed making a great deal of effort, but we must play a leading role, especially when it comes to access to contraception and abortion. We have to note that, for example, these rights are not acquired in the United States. Getting pregnant by rape is terrible. We can provide support. I ask you to continue your efforts. We can also consider supporting organisations, especially when it comes to providing contraception and access to abortion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Mrs Reynaert pointed out very well: what women are experiencing for the moment is just untenable. As I developed in my question, we also have a lot of questions about the sexual and reproductive rights of LGBT people, and also people who need specific support about their sexual and reproductive health, particularly in terms of access to HIV/AIDS treatment. It is true that we are very concerned. The neighbouring countries, which are on the front line for aid, are not the most progressive in this respect. Belgium has always been one of the most progressive countries in this respect. So I hope that you will be heard in your international efforts, and that you can continue to be creative within the government. As we have already been with Polish women, let us continue to be as creative as possible to bring support, as close as we can, for access to treatment, access to awareness-raising and care for the victims of this war. Thank you for your efforts. And continue in this way!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u29	Mr President, I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u30	Madam Minister, before the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Ukraine was one of the main producers of wheat and maize. Ukraine is nicknamed "European grain barn" and, in a sense, the world. According to United Nations figures, 30 million tonnes of wheat and 25 million tonnes of maize were harvested in 2020. Many countries, including African countries, depend on cheap wheat from Ukraine. At present, some 4.5 million tonnes of Ukrainian grain would be stuck on ships and in ports, partly because these ports are blocked by numerous sanctions. The African countries are now being hit in two ways: directly because there is no access to those stocks, and indirectly because of the price increases. This is on top of the existing food crisis, which was already on the rise before the conflict. According to the calculations of the World Food Programme, the risk of acute famine will increase by 17% worldwide, with the sharpest increases in East, West, and Southern Africa. My questions to you are quite obvious. What means will the Belgian Department of Development Cooperation release to address the impact of the war in Ukraine on Africa's food supply? What additional efforts is our country making in this area for the highly exposed countries with which Enabel cooperates, including Mali, the Central African Republic, Burundi and Burkina Faso?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u31	This war shows once again how we are all connected and that the consequences go beyond what is visible today. I closely monitor the impact of the Ukraine crisis in our partner countries. Once again, it is the most vulnerable that are most affected by rising food prices and disruption of supply chains. In the short term, it is important to meet the greatest needs. We do so through humanitarian aid, both through our financing of the global resources of the World Food Programme and through the flexible funds of SFERA and IRA. For example, SFERA has already released $500,000 of Belgian contributions to support 880 Ukrainian farmers to ensure their production. Belgium also contributes €17 million annually to the CERF emergency fund. This fund recently released another $100 million to tackle the fight against hunger in Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan, South Sudan, Nigeria and Yemen. However, in the longer term it is important to continue to focus on strengthening the resilience of the population in our partner countries. Firstly, investment in a sustainable agricultural sector is much needed. In several of our partner countries, we invest in small-scale farmers and their local value chains. In the Sahel, for example, we use the Belgian climate programme to support agro-ecology and land recovery. We will, of course, continue to monitor the evolution of the needs and, where necessary, see if there is any need to adjust them. Last week there was a consultation with all the Belgian actors involved in the Platform for Agriculture and Food Security to discuss this specific issue. It is clear that this will require a global, coordinated approach. Belgium, for example, also calls for attention to be paid to the problem of multilateral partners, not only by dealing with short-term effects, but also by making more structural efforts to develop local production and distribution. It is clear that countries such as Tanzania, Burkina Faso, Benin and Senegal are particularly dependent on the import of fuel and food and will therefore be hit very hard. This has recently been demonstrated by a Rapid Assessment of the UNDP. I would like to refer to the voting behaviour of a number of African countries in the UN regarding the situation in Ukraine and possible conditions for our international solidarity. The ordinary citizens in those countries would be the main victims of this. Our support is therefore directed at those people. Of course, it is the duty of our diplomacy to engage in dialogue with these countries. It must be clear that Russian aggression has long-term consequences, which will ultimately be detrimental to everyone. This war also shows that the challenges will be great, that we should not work on charity, but on real partnerships. Belgium's political choice to cooperate with the most fragile countries is not always the easiest way, but the most important way not to abandon the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u32	Madam Minister, you did not mention the possible destabilisation of the regimes. It is difficult for you to comment on this, but it will have to be a point of attention in any case. They are already very fragile countries, where frictions should not arise. The vote in the UN is a very difficult matter. The citizens must not be the victims of this. As I said in the policy paper, we are far too relying on the need to support small-scale projects, where we could also do a lot of macro. We could ensure that local agricultural production can develop on a larger scale, that an economic system can develop behind it, and that this would greatly reduce their dependence on us as partners, but also on the countries where there is war today. You say that SFERA invests in Ukrainian farmers to ensure their production. Will you also go so far as to support the distribution? Apparently, that's one of the big problems. Pay sufficient attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u33	Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that you will make additional efforts, including in the field of humanitarian aid, in the short term and that you will strengthen the partnerships in the long term. You rightly pointed out the importance of a certain substitution of imports, in order to make agriculture more resilient and to scale up local production in the long term. However, we see of course the following, the World Bank Director and the World Food Programme said so too. We haven't seen the end yet. Prices are going to rise even further. Unfortunately, the humanitarian suffering will continue as long as the war continues. The reciprocal reaction spiral and the economic sanctions threaten not only to drag us all around the world. I fear for a great deal of humanitarian suffering in Sub-Sahara and all those vulnerable countries. You say that you have diplomatic contacts with those countries, because you want to make sure that this money ends up where it should end up. However, I do miss that diplomatic part of the government. I am referring to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. We see a great deal of attention being paid to arms supplies, but of course that is not sustainable in the long term. Of course, you also see in your policy area that this is beginning to have far-reaching consequences. The longer that war lasts, the bigger that crisis will get. I can only encourage you, from your role, to encourage your colleagues in the government to take diplomatic initiatives as well. Many academics are now also saying that we must dare to go along this path of negotiated peace, otherwise we risk going into another phase of escalation and the consequences will only get worse. I also see that an extra EUR 1 billion has been found in a few days to be spent on the defence sector. A fraction of them could be released in order to mitigate the effects of sanctions, the consequences of which are felt by the peoples of the South. So I see a lack of political will to follow the diplomatic path as well. I can only recommend that this plea be made with regard to your colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u34	Madam Minister, on 25 April, twelve United Nations human rights experts called on the international community to immediately take effective steps to protect and support the six Palestinian civil society organisations designated by the Israeli Government as terrorist organisations in October 2021. We recall that Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, in a joint communiqué, referred to this unjust criminalisation by the apartheid regime as an attack on human rights defenders worldwide. Those experts also note that Israel has still not produced any concrete and credible evidence for this accusation. Israel has also failed to convince a number of governments and international organisations that have traditionally provided funding for the indispensable work of these six organisations. It is known to include Addameer, Al-Haq, Bisan Center for Research and Development, Defense for Children International - Palestine, Union of Agricultural Work Committees and Union of Palestinian Women's Committees. By branding them as terrorist organisations, Israel can roll them up, confiscate their assets, end their activities and also sue their leaders and personnel. Many of these things have already happened and are still happening. For example, the chairman of the Health Work Committees, Ms Shatha Odeh, is still being held in an Israeli prison. I have a few questions about this. Has Belgium launched its development cooperation with one or more of these organisations since October 2021? Have other Belgian development agreements ended their cooperation with or funding one of these six NGOs? Will Belgium respond to this call and make additional efforts to support Palestinian civil society? Will Belgium continue to monitor Mrs Odeh's situation and can you tell us about the evolution and state of affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u35	Mr De Vuyst, I have already mentioned several times in this committee that an internal investigation by my administration has not provided any information confirming the allegations concerning the organisations receiving Belgian funding. Therefore, I see no reason to take action against the Palestinian organisations in question. Nor are the elements transferred by the Israeli authorities such that I return to my decision. Our support for Palestinian civil society is therefore being continued. This civil society plays a crucial role in strengthening the principles of the rule of law and the search for lasting peace in the region. I recently approved the new five-year programme of non-governmental actors. In this context, our country continues to support the programmes of nine Belgian non-governmental actors in Palestine and Israel. On the basis of the final financing decision, they are currently investigating with whom and in what way they will cooperate locally. It goes without saying that this should be done with local organisations that comply with the existing rules on financial management and have no link to terrorist organisations. The new funding will be closely monitored through the existing control mechanisms. As you know, the Belgian partner organisation was asked to identify the risks of cooperation with Palestinian partners and to develop an appropriate strategy to minimise those risks. In addition to support through non-governmental cooperation, UNDP also received funding last year. It provides support for Palestinian civil society in the context of the local elections to be held. As for your question about Mrs Odeh, I can tell you that our diplomatic post in Jerusalem is following up on her situation very closely. My colleague Wilmès explained this in this committee on 29 March. If you want more recent information, I suggest you turn to the Prime Minister, who is temporarily in charge of foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u36	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you reaffirm your cooperation with the Palestinian civil society organisations and that our country will not be intimidated by the unjustified allegations made against these civil society organisations. I am pleased that you recognise the legitimate and necessary role these organisations play in supporting the Palestinian people and in documenting Israeli war crimes. It pleases you that you are not intimidated, even though there is a great deal of pressure. We see double standards and two weights being applied when it comes to Israel and war crimes. We regret that the State of Israel is not being sanctioned. Recently, however, many human rights organisations have described Israel as an apartheid regime. No sanctions have been imposed and even sentences have been issued with difficulty. We very much regret that. This also applies to this government. We are always talking about the universality of human rights and international law, which we support for clarity, but there is also the geopolitical factor. We note that the importance of universality is becoming less and less important when it comes to allies and its importance increases when it comes to geopolitical rivals. We hope that the government will look with equal passion and zeal at what the Palestinian people are going through every day. Israel must, once and for all, respect humanitarian and international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u37	Mr De Vuyst, I would point out that your lines are too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u38	Madam President, I took advantage of the fact that it was almost a conversation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic774x.u39	It should be noted that the meeting with Minister Clarinval has been postponed.
