ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u1	My questions concern two different issues in the context of energy bills. The first question concerns the temporary reduction of VAT on electricity, so in fact the measures announced by your government two or three weeks ago, Madam Minister. In spring, you want to reduce VAT on electricity to 6%. This reduction in VAT would result in an average family of only EUR 65, whereas a real reduction in VAT, i.e. retroactive, permanent and not only on electricity but also on gas, would result in an average family of EUR 685, i.e. 10 times more. Some members of the government once talked about peasant deception. Well, this is definitely a farmers' deception, isn't it? The pressure was so great that you had to take a measure with some kind of VAT reduction, but you did everything you could to eliminate it. The government also initially announced that the VAT reduction would start on 1 March, but the advance payments would not be made until 1 April. Meanwhile, the PVDA study service published a new dossier on the energy gap with our neighbouring countries. After all, there is often talk about the pay gap, but there is also an energy gap. According to our study, an average family pays EUR 1,066 more for gas and electricity than an average family in neighbouring countries. There is no better proof of this government's lack of decisive policy. Why did you only reduce the VAT on electricity and not on gas? What did you only do this for now, when prices went through the roof especially in winter? You know that gas prices are the main cause of this crisis. When exactly will the VAT reduction take effect? How will it be calculated? You proudly announced that this energy package costs EUR 1.1 billion. Due to the increase in energy prices, the additional revenue of the State amounts to EUR 800 million. Actually, this costs you net only 300 million euros, or even less. So they're crumbs, while people's energy bill went through the roof. How much does this agreement really cost the government? My second question concerns those who miss out on the EUR 100 energy premium and do not receive the social rate. Another part of your half-hearted government agreement is a one-off heating premium of 100 euros per family. Soon it turned out that the premium would not come to everyone, even people entitled to the social rate do not always get it. Even more vengeful is that especially vulnerable groups fall out of the boat, even if you say you want to stand up for them. These are people who share an electricity connection, for example in an apartment building or in homes built as a family home but subsequently split into different apartments or studios. For the past year, the Network against Poverty has once again addressed the problem, because it has been a reality since liberalisation. SAAMO points out that Parliamentary questions were already asked in 2007. Also people from the residential care centers or assistance homes fall completely out of the boat. They cannot even claim a temporary VAT reduction on electricity. What will you do to help everyone? How is it possible that after so much time, namely since 2007, no solution has been found for these people? You are always knocking on your chest for the extension of the social tariff. Of course we supported that. I would like to point out that we have tabled an amendment to make the extension of the social tariff permanent, but it has been voted down by your majority. How is it possible that some of the people still have no access to it? Will you ensure that the people who are entitled to only share one electricity connection are also entitled to the social rate and the heating premium of EUR 100?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u2	Madam Minister, a first section of questions deals with everything related to the energy bill and the federal government's efforts in this area. We have already pointed out a number of times that these efforts are inadequate and that your excise duty exercise has actually yielded nothing. The VRT has also confirmed this in a fact check, which says that federal extra costs have even risen a long way rather than dropped. At the same time, the Flemish additional costs have fallen, says the same factcheck. It took you a long time to come up with additional measures, although there were many proposals on the table, including those from the opposition. But, of course, they are simply voted off for the sake of convenience, or at least their urgency. The question is: what will happen next? What's going on? How do you respond to the VRT's fact check? How can you explain that the federal extra costs in the invoice have increased even further, whereas you claimed the exact opposite here in committee at the end of last year? What will you do, in line with the resolution of 16 July 2020, to compensate us both? What efforts will be made for an average family? What does an average family get out of that, taking into account the increase in federal extra costs? What's taking so long? Is it really credible to deal with it this way? When I specifically zoom in on the result, the heating premium associated with it, I have to say that a lot of people live in apartment buildings or in service flats, where sometimes collective heating with natural gas is used. The government wants to meet the high energy costs through a heating premium of 100 euros for all Belgian families. However, that premium will be granted per energy supplier and will be charged EUR 100 in the electricity bill of anyone who has a residential contract. Many syndici now receive phones from residents of apartment buildings with the question whether they will receive that premium. In older buildings, not everyone has a separate electricity meter with a separate EAN number, and in these cases the electricity contract is concluded by the association of co-owners and is therefore a professional rather than a residential contract. In De Tijd of 5 February we read that such an apartment building with only one meter will receive only one premium. This seems difficult to accept if the intention was to give a heating premium to anyone using natural gas. Because at the annual final bill, those high costs will be passed on to all the residents of those apartments. So your slogan "we do something for all families" does not always apply. Moreover, in these apartment buildings not all lots are residential, there are sometimes practices between lawyers, architects or dentists. Hence my questions. Does the government only provide for a heating premium of EUR 100 for residential electricity contracts? Will that heating premium also be granted to any family living in an apartment building where a professional electricity contract has been concluded by the association of co-owners? How will energy suppliers deal with this heating premium in apartment buildings where families live, whether there are individual electricity connections or one collective? How will you prevent a collective electricity connection with one EAN number from distributing the premiums in the annual final bill among the items not intended for residential use?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u3	Madam Minister, my questions are similar to those of my colleagues and would like to start with the fact check of the VRT, a new plague for you. Your honeymoon has lasted a very long time, but now they have suddenly disappeared. According to that factcheck, which focused on January 2022, the federal additional costs have nevertheless increased, so that the excise duty reform, the first part of what is called the energy standard, does not result in an immediate effect. The author of the factcheck says that despite the freezing on the reference year 2021, an average Flemish family currently pays 95.66 euros in excise duty annually, plus a small residual charge of 3.71 euros, which means an overall increase of 8.93 euros, i.e. more than in January 2021. Madam Secretary, how do you respond to the findings of that fact check? If you have other figures, can we get them? I am going straight back to the current negotiations on these excise duties. These negotiations must be successful within a week at the latest, if I remember correctly, because on 1 February there was talk of a period of one month. My second question is about residential contracts versus professional contracts. It concerns buildings with only one central connection for electricity, but one EAN number, as the heating premium is awarded on the basis of that connection number. An article in Het Laatste Nieuws was a bit confusing, because it also covered the social tariff, but it is hard to imagine that it is the same one-on-one. I'm asking you to explain that. In any case, it is clear that this problem has never been addressed since the liberalisation of the energy market, which is obviously not your fault. I suspect that we may be amazed at the high number of people who still live in such older apartment buildings. It is often the less wealthy people who opt for a less good property where the rent is lower, who are confronted with the problem that the premium goes to the association of co-owners whose name is the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u4	Madam Minister, we are aware of the feeble reduction of EUR 165 on an annual average energy bill of EUR 3.325, because we did not want to allow a reduction in VAT on natural gas, because the green parties felt that natural gas and climate were not so compatible. The hurrays on these 165 euros were quickly cancelled by the Council of Ministers which had decided not to grant them until one month later, on 1 April. Technical and internal organisational reasons are given to the operators concerned. I wonder what the date of 1 March is based on, Madam Secretary? Was there no prior consultation with the operators to set that entry date? Do you believe that the organisational reasons invoked outweigh the situation of households that are currently having a very difficult time paying their energy bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are a number of special questions. Usually a minister comes here to be checked on the policy, but nowadays I come here to explain articles on the website of the VRT. No problem. I'll answer it. High energy prices affect all of us. This is reflected, among other things, in the many questions that are always asked here, not only in committee but also in the plenum, and in the follow-up that you give to them. This, of course, resonates with the various questions raised by the citizens. Many do not always seem to realise that this government has been working on a structural policy for the energy bill since its inception. Already in the autumn of 2020 budget negotiations, we decided to extend the target group of the social tariff. That was long before there were strong price increases. We have also introduced the energy standard, which protects the competitiveness of companies and also the purchasing power of families. The second part of the energy standard was adopted in this committee two weeks ago and is on the agenda of the plenary session the day after tomorrow. The fact that this is now before the vote in Parliament means that we have been working on this for a long time. We achieve this after having been in various governmental agreements for ten years. This government has taken action. The energy standard is a structural measure that this government had already undertaken before the energy crisis struck. In this way, the government put EUR 760 million on the table: the extension of the social tariff to EUR 588 million; the structural reform of the federal levies, with a cost of EUR 156 million in 2022, as we have explained here several times in connection with the legislative work; no additional costs in 2022 in federal charges, EUR 103 million; and exemptions for the competitiveness of businesses and families, vulnerable to a high energy bill, EUR 53 million. I would also like to correct what was previously communicated on this measure by the VRT. The editor mistakenly compared the federal share on the invoice today with the federal share in 2020 and thus not with the invoice of 2021, as stated in the article. Instead of an increase of EUR 9, we are talking about not charging an increase of EUR 30 for an average family. This may seem a low amount, but it is significant since the federal levies today amount to only EUR 65 compared to the Flemish levies, which are four times higher. Last month, we also reached an initial agreement within the government on the further extension of the social tariff, as well as on the granting of a heating premium and a VAT reduction on electricity. EUR 1.1 billion has been made available for these measures. This is EUR 185 million for the extra cost of the social tariff for the first quarter; the extension of the social tariff in the second quarter costs EUR 93.8 million; the temporary reduction of VAT on electricity from 21% to 6% for a period of 4 months starts in March 2022 and costs EUR 320 million; the one-off heating premium of EUR 100 through a reduction in the electricity bill costs a total of EUR 1.1 billion. This is a total of 1.9 billion earmarked to reduce people's invoices. It should be borne in mind that the increase in the social tariff and the doubling of the target group of 2 million Belgians have never experienced the increase in energy prices. Questions have been asked about the VAT reduction that is not actually within my competence, but I will intervene. Mr Van Lommel, every time you question me on this matter, you come up with a little bit worse, fake news that the Greens would have a problem with gas and that the VAT on gas would therefore not have been reduced. I assume you read the papers. In the run-up to the core meeting, all the notes submitted were leaked. That was not done by my cabinet, nor by Mr Van Peteghem's cabinet. In this you can see that the note presented by Mr Van Peteghem and myself spoke of a VAT reduction to 6% for electricity and gas. So stop constantly throwing your frame and sauce over it and pretending this would have been an ideological issue with me. It may also be just right, correct and without disinformation, especially when we are communicating in Parliament. The VAT reduction for electricity will take effect from 1 March 2022. Following consultations with the suppliers, it appeared that this was the earliest possible date to actually grant it. On the advance invoice it will also be visible from 1 April. In the billing bill, a correct payment statement is guaranteed for March by applying the usual synthetic load profiles. So yes, the VAT reduction will take effect from 1 March. Mr Van Lommel, a synthetic load profile is the consumption that is theoretically distributed per month and that is approved by the regional regulators. That load profile is also applied for March. So people get the VAT cut on their consumption in March. I understand the many questions surrounding the granting of the EUR 100 heating premium. But if it's about the meters or the distribution network, it's not federal jurisdiction. The decision to grant that heating premium via the electricity bill has been taken by the government because each residential customer has an electricity contract. This is different than for families using gas or fuel oil. By choosing the electricity bill as a criterion, we were thus able to guarantee the largest group of right holders. As the VMEs as professional contract holders will not receive multiple premiums, Mr Wollants, we should not be afraid of fraud. I understand that there is a majority in Parliament to legally anchor that EUR 100 as soon as possible, through the law on various provisions that is before us on Thursday. The 100 euros will be awarded through the advance invoices. I welcome Parliament's support because it allows us to give that amount to the people as soon as possible. This is how we implement government decisions very quickly. Minister Van Peteghem and I were asked to work out a thorough reform of excise duties by March. In any case, here we provide a cliquet to avoid more revenue for the government even in the longer term. No one should enrich themselves against this energy crisis, not even the government. All the slopes to achieve this goal are still on the table. It will be a decision of the government to decide on the measures to be taken and on the means to be made available for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u6	I'd still like to correct something. You and the government always work out with the extension of the social tariff. We have also supported this. You say that the people receiving the social tariff have not felt the rise in energy prices. Sorry, but you also know that this social tariff is tied to the market and follows market trends. They pay less, but the rate has also risen hundreds of euros. You know that too, and you're talking nonsense here. You also emphasised the government's efforts. I asked you what this effort cost you net, but you did not reply. You spoke of EUR 1.1 billion, even EUR 1.9 billion if the other measures are included. But you also know that the increased VAT revenue amounts to EUR 800 million. That is why I would have liked you to give me a figure of net effort. You are spending money, but it is mainly up to us to do the budget of the families. In one year's time, the household energy bill has more than doubled to a record of an average of 5.530 euros. That amount is rising faster in our country than in neighbouring countries, so that we now have the most expensive electricity price: EUR 612 more than the average of neighbouring countries. For gas we have the second most expensive price: 454 euros more. A year ago, this gas price was still a quarter lower than in neighbouring countries. Your measures are therefore peanuts when you see what families need. We are particularly concerned about the need for families. Other countries are doing more. The Netherlands has a compensation of over 400 euros, France and the United Kingdom have a VAT of respectively 5% and 5.5 % for electricity and gas, structural and not temporary. That's gonna save you a lot. Of course, we will continue to fight for a VAT reduction for all energy. That is a basic requirement. A permanent reduction of both can bring hundreds of euros for families.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u7	Madam Minister, your calculation of the fact check of the VRT helps explain why I came up with a EUR 2.7 reduction in the invoice, when they were EUR 8. To be honest, that's 41 cents a month, congratulations! That is no use to us, and you do not need to beat yourself too hard for that. As far as the set-off with the meters is concerned, you open the umbrella by saying that it is not your competence and that it goes through the electricity bill. But that is a conscious choice by this government: you have chosen to use this system and not, for example, as we had proposed, the company tax, which would have benefited pensioners and so on. It's been your choice to leave these people in the cold. As far as the VAT reduction is concerned, I think and hope that the EUR 65 will be much lower, because if gas prices are still the same in June, we have another problem. At the same time, I wonder how you will proceed with this, because the set-off will not be much. By the way, I've been told that the SLPs have meanwhile been replaced by RLPs, which have a slightly different course, although the concept is similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u8	Madam Secretary, it is good that you have served the fact-check of reply, I thought it was something like that and that the comparison did not go well. I agree with the previous speaker, of course, that the reform of excise duties provides peanuts for the people, especially those who do not benefit from a social tariff. You chose that process and we have to take the bump. Too bad, but that's how it is now. As far as the cliquet system is concerned, you do not immediately confess colour. There will be a system like this, but all the other slopes will remain open. We are curious, because in the light of the latest geopolitical developments, in Europe and worldwide, we may still be facing difficult times, which we may agree on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u9	Madam Minister, you always say how much money the government has invested, but do not say how much more revenue will go from it and how much will remain net. We are spending money now, but not much is happening in structural terms. As regards the reduction in VAT and the question of whether it will start on 1 March or 1 April, you will explain all this, but it is very clumsy communication, let us be honest about that. Our energy bill is a lot higher than that in other countries. In his interview, the Federal Ombudsman mentioned the 100 euro heating premium and the four months VAT reduction itself. Madam Minister, EUR 165 on an average increase of EUR 3.325 on an annual basis is indeed peanuts. I understand that the ground is getting too hot under your feet right now, and that is why you are walking around nervously and losing your patience, but we cannot ignore the fact that this 165 euro is a particularly poor comfort for families.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u10	Mr President, I did not intend to replicate at first, but I will, because I have heard some remarkable things here. Mr Van Lommel, you like to blame everyone for getting nervous, but there's no need for that. I have no objection to the fact that the policy is being checked, but it is sometimes necessary to check the fact of certain statements made by the opposition. I understand that this may be a little too much work for those concerned. After all, you say that it is not enough, Mr Wollants, but I see that today, thanks to the Flemish Government, we are barely making a profit of EUR 3 per month. You will say that through the green certificates she will get a lot of money from the invoice, but that is legally highly uncertain. If the Minister had proposed that in the Federal Parliament, you would be screaming murder and fire. After all, you always say that the policy must be as secure as possible. However, what the Minister did in Flanders is also legally uncertain. I hope she can do it, but it's not gonna help people today. Mr Warmoes, you made the comparison with the neighbouring countries, but then make a fair comparison. You refer to the Netherlands EUR 400 for each family, but is that the PVDA model? After all, in the Netherlands there is no social rate as in Belgium. That is a big difference, because the social rate we have in Belgium today means a lot more euros than the 400 euros that are given to all families in the Netherlands. I am pleased that our country has chosen to strengthen the protection of the families who really need it and do something for all other families, rather than introduce a scheme that is the same for everyone. I think it's weird that the PVDA says that. Finally, much has been said about the VAT system. Madam Secretary, you know our position on this. That is a good and logical measure, but the problems will not disappear and we will have to consider whether we can introduce them in a structural manner. I am, of course, also looking forward to the work that you, together with Minister Van Peteghem, will continue to do on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u11	Madam Minister, in this difficult context you have done a good job, for which I appreciate and also that of my group. Let us also be honest: higher energy prices do not disappear by shifting part of the account to the government. That account ends up somewhere and ends up in public debt and thus in the eyes of the citizen. It was therefore not an obvious decision to place a piece of the burden on the public budget in exceptional circumstances. We must also be realistic: energy cheques can, in exceptional circumstances, but can never be the general rule. If we were, we would have to write a fruit check tomorrow if fruit prices were to rise. The opposite also applies: will we introduce an additional TV charge because the TV sets dropped by 10% last year in price? In short, I would like to stress once again that, in these difficult circumstances, we must not only act on the intervention of the government, but we must encourage everyone to achieve energy efficiency and efficiency. The government must also ensure that we have a healthy long-term energy policy, which brings a sensible balance in the famous vibrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u12	Thank you for your word from earlier, because that's what this is all about. We have a solution not to shift the bill to the government, which is being passed on to the one who becomes dormant. My question concerns the CREG study on the overprofits of nuclear power plants and other actors. Last week, you said that the long-awaited second study by the CREG on the current overprofits in the energy sector was finished. We got that study effective on Friday. However, all the results and figures have been removed from them. Our study service published a study early this year showing that Engie Electrabel is one of the companies that get dormant in this crisis. We then estimated the excess profits of the Belgian nuclear power plants at EUR 2.6 billion for the period 2021-2024. We've put a lot of work into that calculation. According to our estimate, Engie Electrabel would have made an additional 800 million profits in 2021 alone. In the meantime, Engie herself has announced that she has made more than EUR 1 billion extra profit over the past year with her nuclear power plants. So we calculated very carefully and we weren't far off. We're proud of our study service. What conclusions do you draw from the CREG study? Will you ask the CREG to release the figures for the study? We look forward to that with interest. In the press, you have said on several occasions that no one should enrich themselves in this crisis. You have just repeated that. Now the CREG study shows very clearly that this is the case for nuclear power stations and existing gas plants. How will you keep your promise that no one should enrich themselves in this crisis? Will you ensure that all excess profits are actually skimmed? Pistes are indicated in the CREG study. The French newspaper L'Echo spoke of an increase in the nuclear tax of 32 million euros, according to government sources. This seems to us to be a very low amount in view of the expected excess profits. Where does that amount come from? Can you confirm that? How much will the existing repartition yield extra?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u13	Madam Secretary, apparently skimming is the verb of February. You instructed the CREG in January to map the excess profits in the whole energy sector. You also posted that on your Facebook page. We got the result of that on Friday. A number of cases were gradually leaked into the press, including the EUR 177 million less for wind farms, so I will not read out the full conclusion of the CREG. As regards nuclear, it states: "Despite the large profits expected at present and in the near future, it can be established that they contribute a slightly higher percentage over the period 2016-2024 than foreseen in the various relevant regulations. If federal governments nevertheless consider these expected profits excessive, they may decide to make an additional exceptional contribution, as is the case in France." We even belong to the liberals. Mr President, your President is also talking about combining the CRM with an extension of the last two nuclear power plants, so that we can look at what can be done about the excess profits in the nuclear sector. Madam Secretary, you too have used the words and investigations. As far as gas is concerned, there are, of course, profits. That is where you put forward the payback scheme, which was criticised here by colleagues Warmoes and Wollants. I would like to hear your response to the results and conclusions of the CREG study. Mr Warmoes, as far as the estimates of the CREG on the current contractually established and legally based system of remuneration are concerned, that is the case. I did not approve it, but perhaps you could ask my colleague on the left what exactly is the situation. Madam Secretary, do you have a look at the estimates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u14	Madam Minister, I will be brief and I will simply ask you what initiatives you have taken since you took note of that CREG study. What initiatives do you intend to take to exploit the potential gains?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, the CREG recently revealed, in its study on the impact of the persistence of high prices on the wholesale gas and electricity markets, that the managers of Belgian gas plants had achieved on average 39.3 million net profits in 2021. Among the reasons for this increase are the increase in gas prices in the wholesale market, the anticipated supply of gas by suppliers, and the availability of nuclear power. In this regard, the regulator stated that these benefits derive from normal operator practice, and that "we can therefore expect similar high profits for existing gas power plants in 2022". Minister, can we get your feedback on this study and, in particular, on the part dedicated to the profits made by gas plant managers in 2021? You have indicated your willingness to do "everything in your power to combat excess profits" made during this period of rising energy prices. If the sharp increase in the profitability of gas-fired power stations is not an illegal practice, you will agree that this situation is particularly problematic in view of the difficulties faced by Belgian households in the face of an increase in their bills. What initiatives can be envisaged to combat the exceptional benefits brought about by the energy price crisis in 2022? Can you tell us to what extent this situation could have an impact on the amounts of capacity allocated to the CRM auction? You indicated that you "shall ensure that such a situation does not occur under the CRM, thanks to the repayment obligation that we have incorporated into the settlement of the mechanism. It foresees that these profits will be automatically repaid in the future." Can you provide us with more information on this obligation, the methods of calculating the exceptional profits and the methods of reimbursement provided for in the capacity supply contracts? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u16	Mr President, I am exceptionally in video conferencing and I wanted to ask the minister about the over-profits registered by electricity producers, given the surge in prices on the markets. Madam Minister, first of all, what conclusions do you draw from the study of CREG, which has already been commented on by one or the other colleague? We find that, for the most recent reactors, only 38% of the profit margin was covered by the allocation contribution, whereas, for the period 2016-2020, it accounted for 84% of this profit margin. Secondly, the CREG emphasises the over-profit effect for gas power stations. I would like you to elaborate on that fact. In connection with Mr Ben Achour's remarks, I would also like to ask you in what way, as part of the CRM, you are going to recover these over-profits from gas power plants. Could you explain this mechanism to me? Finally, one point is not very clear. The CREG assumes that there is no profit in wind farms, although it believes that if price increases continue over time, there will be reason to check exactly what is happening. I find these conclusions somewhat dubious and stoning. I would have liked to hear from you about this, by taking up your slogan - to which I subscribe - that no electricity producer can get rich on the back of the citizen in the wake of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u17	Madam Minister, my written question is in line with the previous questions. What is your response to the so-called overprofits, or in English windfall profits? All companies have periods in which people unexpectedly lose a lot of money and periods in which they earn a lot of money. What's your attitude on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u18	The context has already been sufficiently explained by colleagues and reference has been made to the CREG study. The investigation's over, now it's time for action. I expect you to put lawyers on the case, see what can be done about the contracts. In the past, it has always been said that it is difficult to change this. So I'm mostly curious about the next steps and the timing for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u19	My starting point is that no one should enrich themselves through high energy prices. The state is not allowed to do that, hence our decision to reduce VAT and grant a heating premium. However, businesses must not enrich themselves either. That is why I asked CREG for an update of its study on bankruptcy risks and surplus profits, which I had commissioned last year. This study was sent to me last week and a non-confidential version was posted on its website last Friday. I will sum up the conclusions. For natural gas production it is clear, the producers record record profits but they are all foreign companies. The suppliers are having a hard time. The CREG closely monitors this with a monthly report and determines prices on the retail market directly linked to those on the wholesale market. No exceptional profits are realised here. Traders in gas and electricity, balance managers and suppliers of flexibility services undoubtedly know what to do in this volatile market. However, the benefits for these players are limited, even in the trading of CO2 no market manipulation is currently identified. The transmission system operator for electricity sees significant congestion rates coming in, thanks to the large transit of electricity to France due to the unavailability of the French nuclear park and to the United Kingdom, combined with price differences with those countries. Interest rates will be included in the transmission network tariffs for the coming years and will thus return to the Belgian final consumer. At the wind farms at sea there are no excess profits. For the next five years, it is estimated that EUR 779 million will need less support. Also, buyers of a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) from an offshore wind farm do not generate exceptional profits and experience an increase in risk due to the expensive balance management of their portfolio. Nuclear power stations are making a profit at high prices during this period. A percentage of that profit will be transferred through the repartition contribution in the coming years. The next commitment of interest shall be made at the beginning of June. The CREG has made assessments but describes them as confidential. We discussed this in plenary last Thursday. As a minister, I have to stick to that confidentiality. However, as I said on Thursday, I am not satisfied with that. I have therefore asked the CREG to check whether confidentiality is required in this case and to make these figures public for the sake of the public interest. I have not yet received any feedback from the CREG on this question. The CREG calculated that a theoretical gas plant made an operational profit in 2021 from €39.3 to €46.5 million. However, the CREG does not conclude that this would be an excess profit. That is why I asked the CREG to further concreteise this theoretical approach and to provide me with an overview of the actual and actual profitability of the gas plants, calculated over the entire exploitation period. I also asked CREG to be clearer as to when it identifies a profit as an overprofit or an exceptional profit. The study that is made public refers to exceptional benefits as being more than normal. I therefore count on CREG to give more details, for example on the basis of economic literature, so that we can objectiveize this. I do politics on the basis of numbers and reports. The support of CREG is very valuable here, as it was already in the past, for example for dormant contracts. I also asked the CREG to propose measures which would allow windfall profits or excess profits to be returned to Belgian consumers. After all, we are also looking at other European countries which have already taken initiatives in this respect, for example with the mobilisation of a solidarity fund. Mr Verduyckt, specifically with regard to nuclear overprofits, I asked the CREG for a legal analysis of whether the Belgian State could demand an even higher remuneration. I put that question to the CREG because, based on the formula enshrined in the law and on bilateral contracts between the Belgian State and the operator, it has far-reaching powers with regard to the control of costs. In that sense, the CREG seems to me to be the body best placed to carry out that analysis. The CREG also has an extensive legal service. I said no one should get rich in this crisis. That is why I asked CREG to continue its follow-up and to provide me with a quarterly report. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u20	Madam Minister, we note that for the umpteenth time you say that no one should enrich themselves in this crisis. This crisis has been going on for some time now and is getting worse and worse. You are now playing the ball back to the CREG, asking to study this. We now need decisive measures, because we believe that the State is giving too little to support the people. The money is at Engie Electrabel's and may still be sent to France or will eventually be returned to the shareholders, but it must now be used to reduce the tax burden on the household invoices. I find your question to the CREG somewhat strange, because - even if it is rather vague - the CREG itself says: 'If federal authorities consider these expected profits to be excessive, they can decide on an additional exceptional contribution, as in France'. That is rather vague, but the CREG does not put that on paper if nothing is possible in that sense. It means that the CREG sees possibilities. Indeed, contracts have been concluded for three of the seven plants. In our opinion, the repartition contribution can simply be increased with a change in the law for the extended opening period. What you say about the contracts only applies to three of the seven power stations. We are, of course, in favour of increasing these contributions, even if only for part of the nuclear power plant. An alternative could be a general tax on the excess profits in the whole energy sector. The time is now really ripe to take concrete measures to effectively drive in the money, if I may put it that way, to help families, small self-employed people and others, because that is really what is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u21	With regard to confidentiality and the subject matter of the contract, so that additional legal analysis, you want to fine-tune further. I understand that, too. You have also referred to the economic literature on what exactly is surplus profit. I believe that it is necessary to clarify this when we want to enter into dialogue with the CREG. I am still a little hungry about the additional special contribution, as it exists in France, for example. The CREG opens a door to this, but I have the impression that you want to wait for the answer to the additional questions you asked the CREG, to be sure. To Mr Warmoes, who used verbs like skimming and such, I would like to say that I am asking for clemency for the Minister. It is not responsible for the liberalisation of the energy market. That's not something people just turn into a fingernip. Maybe we can do that in a Marxist dictatorship.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I believe that everyone agrees that no one should benefit from this crisis. Everyone agrees with that principle. It is a good thing that analyses are being asked, but I think it is a rather peculiar course of action. Analyses are being given in which there is talk of overprofit for nuclear energy and not yet for offshore energy. After that, you said you'd like to know what the definition of surplus is. I would start with what is surplus, when do we speak of it? Only then can one examine which sector it applies to. So I think that's a little weird. I also find it odd that we do not have a clear view of confidentiality. We must have an exchange of views in order to assess the extent of the excess profits in the various sectors. If there are effective overprofits, I certainly hope that every effort will be made to return that money. I understand that this is not easy and that this cannot be done overnight, but I hope that the CREG will speed up the various studies that you have asked for so that action can be taken quickly. After all, the water is on the lips of a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u23	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her answers. I felt a great determination and a great voluntarism with regard to the objectives. It is now time to find the right way to achieve this goal. Since the right path is, of course, always the right path, we will support you unreservedly on this objective which should guide us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u24	Mr President, I have heard the minister's answers, and I find it a bit special that she says, on the one hand, that she relies on studies and, on the other, that we do not have a correct definition of what an overprofit is. Indeed, in the study of CREG - and that is why we need to go further, and I encourage the Minister to do so - we do not differentiate between the mode of supply of each operator in relation to the energy it uses to generate electricity. The wind comes whenever it wants and so it is used when it arrives. Gas can be bought very little in advance and very little stored, but gas operators could do so. They don't. They follow market price trends. We can still see that some possibilities - and this is where it becomes a little more interesting - are offered to suppliers who leave the market without going bankrupt. According to the regulator, a supplier released from contractual obligations to its customers can sell, on the energy market, the energy that it has purchased for them. This energy is obviously sold at a much higher price on the market than if that supplier had provided it to customers who benefit from a fixed contract. As far as nuclear power producers are concerned, it is clear that the material they use, which can be stored long in advance, allows them to sell energy. This has also enabled these producers to provide customers with attractive fixed contracts, as they can, since they store the raw material well in advance, predict in advance what quantities of energy they can sell three years, two years or one year before the supply period. Of course, is it going to be said that because they are predictable and well organized, they have overprofits that could be captured by the state and that this way of organizing their electricity production is a guilty way, given the surge in prices that they should have expected three years ago? This is a real problem. Unfortunately, I am afraid that until we have an exact definition of over-profits, we will not be able to move forward, apart from the difficulties caused by the extremely detailed and precise legislative framework which has led the CREG, which of course complies with the law, to calculate a much smaller profit margin in relation to the figures it has received from nuclear power producers. This margin, this incompressible floor is, in fact, twice as high as the incompressible floor that the previous government had set for nuclear power producers. Minister, I very much like relying on education. I very much like that we want to be proactive, but I also very much like that we are precise and that we get results. I look forward very impatiently and vigilantly to the results you will produce on this burning issue since, indeed, at the level of the State, you have already made the right arrangement of separating yourself from overprofits in the head of the State budget through VAT and its reduction; and that it is appropriate for electricity producers who have abnormally enriched themselves on the market to act the same way, in the interests of the citizens. It remains the question of exactly what an overprofit is in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u25	Madam Minister, I am aware that you must deal with the gap between high energy prices on the one hand and subsidising energy producers on the other. However, we are coming back to the point where, on the one hand, we need to ensure a healthy and transparent functioning of the market and, on the other hand, we need a sound long-term policy to balance supply and demand. As an entrepreneur, I find it normal that there is sometimes profit and sometimes loss, with sometimes high profits and high losses. However, I would like to add that I can understand that, if important profits were to be made resulting from a state of ex ante subsidies, questions would be asked. It is then necessary to see, in consultation with the parties concerned, whether a correction or additional contribution can be justified. I'm gonna stick with that. It is important that we pursue a policy that can cope with the shocks, which I may consider even more important than the temporary fixing of excess profits or the size of that excess profit. I understand that you will look at the work properly, on the basis of additional information from the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u26	As far as this healthy market is concerned, I may allow companies to make a profit, but when we see that these companies receive subsidies or that the government has to contribute to their energy bill, those are things that don't go together for me. Today, many people are seriously questioning this combination. The Minister bases himself on figures and reports, with little interpretation. That's good. In the case of a legal analysis, this is likely to be less, which may require some discussion earlier. I hope that the result will be there soon and endorse the urgency which Mrs Dierick is asking for. Madam Secretary, I hope you will show more courage than your predecessor. She is talking about a clear definition of overprofits. It seems to me that this is what the analysis is for. It also points out that the legal framework is very strict, but the question is why. In any case, this is very important and I am glad to hear that you have already given the CREG that mandate. I hope that they will get to work quickly, because the situation is serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Marghem asked if she could take the floor again. It is not for me to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u28	Mr President, I will be very brief and I do not want to cut Mr Wollants off. It's because I'm not in the room that I don't have the right feeling of hearing, if I may say so. We must also insist, as colleagues do a lot, and they are right, that all this is ultimately about infrastructure that is subsidized. Gas and renewables are infrastructures subsidized by the citizen. From the moment that the calculation of subsidies has been made in different times, when the price of electricity did not allow for a sufficient level of profitability, whereas today, this is the case, it is absolutely clear that the overprofits are there, and that therefore, subsidies which are granted must be able to return in part to the citizens. There, I would really like to see a closer look at this and that the CREG can continue to examine this situation of oversubsidization seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. This needs to be examined further in order to see what can be done about it. I would also recommend that we look at something that has not been discussed very often, namely the situation of Coo's pumping station. There the difference between off-peak and peak is more than 130 euros. There have been other days of the year. If that happens permanently, then we have to do it. Maybe you should also take this opportunity to turn to Engie before 2030, the date on which Synatom has to see his money back, perhaps to turn to it. If there is such a large cash flow at the moment, this is also the right time to get those cents back.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u30	Madam Minister, the future energy mix certainly includes green hydrogen. The ink of the Belgian hydrogen strategy was not yet dry or you already concluded agreements of principle with different countries on green hydrogen production. Oman, Namibia and Chile already committed themselves through a memorandum of understanding to produce and export green hydrogen to Belgium. It shows you're pulling your hands out of the sleeves. I have a few questions about this. What are the main chalk lines of the signed partnerships? What are the next steps to meet our commitments in the agreements? What guarantees do the memorandums or understanding provide so that the local economy and families in the countries of decline can also benefit from the benefits of cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u31	Minister, on 3 and 4 February, the Royal Visit to the Sultanate of Oman marked a new stage in cooperation between our country and Oman on green hydrogen - following the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on the importation of surplus green hydrogen into Belgium. The port of Duqm has been inaugurated, in which the company DEME and the port of Antwerp will be active. On February 11, we learned that the government had approved the creation of a Hydrogen Test Facility, which will be dedicated to the testing, development and scaling of hydrogen-related technologies and will involve universities, research centres and companies. I note that the financing of this project for the period 2022-2024 amounts to EUR 16.2 million as part of our country's recovery plan. Madam Minister, can you inform us of the progress made in cooperation between our country and the Sultanate of Oman during this visit, with regard to the development of hydrogen-related technologies? We know that the port of Duqm will house the Hyport project of production of green hydrogen, of which DEME will be co-shareholder. This project is expected to allow the import of green hydrogen into Belgian ports by 2030. Can we get more information on this and, in particular, on the prospects for economic deployment arising from this project? As far as the Hydrogen Test Facility is concerned, we have come to the conclusion that "the first phase of the project consists of the launch of a study to detail the economic and technical aspects and provides for the selection of a suitable site" and that "later, the test facility will be built and (that) partnerships with industrial actors will be created". Can you provide us with more information about the organization in charge of this study, as well as about the criteria for selecting the site? Can you give us a detailed schedule for the launch of this centre? In what time frame can we expect this centre to become operational? In general, could you tell us what perspectives can be associated with this project, and within what time frame? Finally, can we be informed of the exchanges with the universities, research centres and companies involved in this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, recently, with Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, you organized a visit to the port of Antwerp with the Namibian president. This visit follows the Memorandum of Understanding signed at COP26 with the Namibian Minister of Mines and Energy. It set the first milestones for cooperation between the two countries in the field of green hydrogen. This agreement is part of the federal hydrogen strategy adopted at the end of 2021. This strategy focuses on the import of green hydrogen, aiming to make Belgium a hub for import and transit. Minister, could you take stock of this visit to the port of Antwerp? What exactly does it come out of? What are the capacity to import green hydrogen from Namibia? What are the deadlines? In addition to the Memorandum of Understanding with Namibia, what are the possibilities of bilateral agreements you are still working on? Can you provide an update on the discussions that have taken place in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u33	Madam Secretary, I still have a supplement to the questions. The visit of the Namibian President was followed by our visit. The Members who were not present missed something at the time. There are enormous expectations about hydrogen. By 2050 we want half the renewable energy (...), but that hydrogen has yet to be produced. Contacts are now being established with a number of distant destinations to produce hydrogen locally, but they still need to be transported. What do you think about that local production? Last week I heard about a small producer trying to produce hydrogen with renewable energy. This is happening on a small scale. I read today that nuclear power stations are also being used for this purpose. Stanford University has made a study in which a lifetime extension of a nuclear reactor could be used for hydrogen production. The cost of this would be half of the hydrogen production with renewable energy. Could you give us some more information on the state of play? How do you see the route, including the additional infrastructure that will be needed in our country? After all, it is not easy, given the enormous expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u34	Colleagues, these activities are part of the federal hydrogen vision and strategy released last year. Through this vision, we have, among other things, announced the federal government's ambition to position Belgium as a hub for the import and transit of renewable molecules. We are investing in international collaboration on this issue, with a view to building a complete supply chain for renewable molecules. That's why I started working with Oman and Namibia. Belgian company projects are also emerging with Chile. This work aims to establish a complete value chain for the import of these molecules into Europe through concrete projects in the short term. However, we do not put all our eggs in the same basket: the diversification of sources will ensure our security of supply. With Oman we have closed a MOU that also looks at the creation of a value chain in the exporting and importing country. Various sessions were organised to exchange among others on the Belgian and Omann hydrogen strategies, as well as on the certification of renewable hydrogen. Belgian companies are committed to a value chain that is valuable and sustainable for both countries. Further steps will be taken in the foreseeable future. Hyport Duqm is a large-scale green hydrogen plant, a world-class innovative technology. The whole value chain will be based on 100% renewable energy. Belgian companies such as DEME and the Port of Antwerp are partners in this project. In Duqm, the plant's geographical location means that only wind and solar energy will be used for the transformation into renewable ammonia. You then get green ammonia without CO2 emissions. It can then be used very efficiently as energy storage or as fuel for the engines of ships and heavy transport. The energy density of ammonia is significantly higher than that of hydrogen. It can therefore be stored in much thinner, smaller, lighter and cheaper tanks. As this is a first global project, new knowledge will be gained. Once renewable hydrogen is available in Belgium, there will be a number of possibilities, including transit to other countries, storage, but above all the supply of Belgian companies that use hydrogen and want to switch to renewable hydrogen. These are mainly chemical companies, transport companies and steel companies. Belgium and a number of other industrial countries already have hydrogen networks. These must be developed in consultation with neighbouring countries. In addition, inland waterway transport is also possible. With regard to Namibia, I can say that there has been a positive momentum following the meeting of Prime Minister De Croo with President Geingob in September in New York and the signing of the MOU on energy between myself and my Namibian colleague of Energy at COP26 in Glasgow. The European strategy is complementary to Namibian plans. In addition, this enables us to support the Belgian companies that are developing a major project in Namibia. Importantly, Belgian companies aim to create a value chain that is in the interest of the host country and generates valuable economic activities. The export of hydrogen contributes to the generation of revenue and creates the possibility to have direct access to the fuel of the future, without having to transit through polluting energy sources. The EU-UA Summit was used to invite the Namibian President and the Minister of Energy to Antwerp. In this way, the Namibian members of the government were able to get to know the possibilities that hydrogen offers. The visit to the hydrogen fuel station in Antwerp and a presentation of the applications for heavy transport, mining vehicles and tugboats, show the added value for the sustainability of the economic activities in Namibia. This does not affect the possibilities for Namibian exports of green hydrogen to Belgium. As far as Chile is concerned, this is a MOU signed between Chile and the port of Antwerp. The Belgian authorities are not directly involved in this. This makes it all the more clear that we are working on the future in all continents, and I think it is important that Belgium and the Belgian companies use this momentum to position our country. Collaboration with other countries and in particular with our European partners is also necessary in order to position Belgium as a hub for the import and transit of renewable molecules. I am focusing on the good collaboration already established with Oman and Namibia rather than multiplying the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with all countries potentially exporting renewable molecules. It seems to me more important to continue this privileged collaboration and to highlight concrete projects. Another pillar of our hydrogen vision and strategy is to consolidate Belgian leadership in hydrogen technologies. It is in this context that the von Karman Institute (IVK) for Fluid Dynamics will coordinate and implement this project. The IVK is a global reference in the field of fluid dynamics and aerodynamics. The IVK is also supported by an international consortium of fifteen NATO member states and is already subsidized for other activities by the federal authority under the supervision of the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy. The IVK will be responsible for identifying on Belgian territory the most suitable possible sites on the basis of the constraints linked to the project, as well as the results of the feasibility study including the future connection of the Hydrogen Backbone. This analysis will be conducted in collaboration with the Heritage Services Administration and will be overseen by a steering committee comprising representatives of the KVI, the Minister of Energy, the Secretary of State for Science Policy, the Science Policy PPS (BELSPO), the Energy DG, the Economy FPS, and two government commissioners. In addition, third-party co-financing opportunities and other federal hydrogen projects will be taken into account in the search for territorial balance. With regard to timing, three tranches of subsidy release are planned, each subject to the achievement of the previous milestones. Work is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2025. Informal contacts with interested industrial and academic actors have already been made by the IVK. The conclusion of collaborative agreements or the expression of formal interests is one of the milestones in the implementation of the project. I have heard that there has been contact with the VKI today and that several institutions and companies are interested. Finally, the questions on infrastructure. The third pillar is the development of a robust hydrogen market, supported by the development of a backbone for hydrogen transport. The development of this project is on track. The investment plan will be finalised and the CREG will have to deliver an opinion on it, which will then have to be validated by the government. In parallel with the construction of the infrastructure, the federal government has also announced in its hydrogen strategy its intention to regulate the activity of the transport of hydrogen via pipelines. This is crucial to ensure open and non-discriminatory access to infrastructure in a context in which new projects for the production and consumption of molecules flourish. Non-discriminatory access to the infrastructure promotes competition in the market and thus rapid and efficient development of the infrastructure. A public consultation on the proposed regulatory model has been organised. The feedback received during this public consultation will be used to feed the considerations and to adapt the regulatory model if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u35	Madam Minister, the key word in your answer is to work together, in a clear long-term policy that you are developing. With regard to this cooperation with countries such as Namibia, Oman and Chile, you rightly pointed out that it is important to create a value chain that is important for both the importing and the exporting partners. I repeat that green hydrogen can and must be part of the future energy mix. It is a welcome solution, especially for the heavy industry, in the transition. I look forward to the further steps that can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u36	Minister, we are faced with a long-term project linked to our country's energy transition. As has often been mentioned in this committee, hydrogen will play a major role in this area. I look forward to the idea that through you, the government is actively working to put these paths into practice over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. However, this policy poses a fundamental problem to me, a central problem because of the electrical mix of countries with which it is interesting to have this kind of collaboration. As far as Namibia, the country to which I referred in my question, the problem does not arise, as is the case with other countries such as Oman, in terms of greenness, but because this country needs electricity. Namibia produces about one terawatt-hour per year of electricity, but consumes four. It must therefore import three quarters of its electricity consumption. For most of its production, it is hydropower, and for a very small part (41 gigawatt hours per year) it is energy produced from solar panels as well as coal. With all this, it produces a terawatt-hour. The rest must be imported. You say in the press that basically, we could imagine producing a million tons of hydrogen a year. But in reality, this represents 55 terawatt-hours of green electricity for electrolysis compared to the only terawatt-hour produced in 2019 in this country. In this case, an ethical question must be asked. As I have just said, Namibia is not at all autonomous in electricity. This is also the case in the surrounding countries. South Africa produces well over 200 terawatt-hours of electricity annually through coal. Belgium is therefore going to force – we could go so far as to think – Namibia to conclude a contract that will not allow it to develop its renewable production, so that the developed country that we are supplied with hydrogen for the energy transition. Very honestly, and it is quite personal, I think it is a fundamental mistake in which you should have university collaborations work, in order to see what it is like how we thus take the opportunity for this country to produce its electricity, to be self-sufficient in electricity in a clean and renewable way. For Oman, the situation is different. When you look at Oman's electrical mix, which has no supply problems, 97% of the electricity produced in Oman comes from the fossil: 65% of the oil and 32% of the gas. Installing renewable energy on site would save the equivalent production of oil-fired power plants. Therefore, instead of actually creating CO2 for hydrogen production, this CO2 would be reduced by allowing this country – or at least by encouraging it to do so – to replace its oil-fired electricity production with renewable energy rather than using it again for us. In addition, we know, despite all the existing techniques that need to be recalled, that in order to produce hydrogen, we need a lot of electricity, and we lose three quarters of it to get that hydrogen that we would need very much. When I see your statement on the million tons of hydrogen per year, knowing that it takes 55 terawatt hours per year of electricity with renewable, 18 gigawatts would have to be installed in renewable capacity and in electrolyzers. Do you really think that Oman decides to go in that direction? In that case, would it not be interesting for them to take advantage of it themselves to decarbonize their electricity? Secondly, if that is the case in Namibia or elsewhere, do you not think that this production force, which is quite ideal in this place where there is a lot of sunshine, would benefit Namibia, for example, to become autonomous in electricity and, why not, to feed the countries around it? That is the point of my reflection. I will ask you again about this again next time. I would have liked you to take this point and analyse it by academics in order to know exactly what is happening and to avoid injustices in terms of access to renewable energy for countries that really need it and do not have the minimum minimorum we have at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u38	Madam Minister, the Committee visited Antwerp some time ago and saw the installations that the CMB has already built there. We must not underestimate the potential of hydrogen as a secondary source of energy, which is complementary to intermittent energy sources, but we must not underestimate the technological and logistical challenges ahead. Nor should we underestimate the fact that our enthusiasm is shared by other countries. The port of Rotterdam, for example, has equally ambitious or even more ambitious plans for this. That is why I would remind you that sometimes we should not go too far when we talk about hydrogen. I therefore reiterate my call to identify the solutions for hydrogen production that we can achieve close to home. This brings us to renewable energy and low-carbon nuclear energy. I would like this to be taken into account in the debate for the future, because energy needs and security of supply are extremely important, including for the Antwerp region. Imports, from any destination, are always subject to major geopolitical risks. So if we want to reduce our import dependence, we need to focus on hydrogen production in our own country, with the necessary tools available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u39	Mr President, Minister, like the last few years, the project call for the Energy Transition Fund was launched in November. The aim is to support research, development and innovation in the field of energy by means of the nuclear tax paid by Engie Electrabel. To my question about the publication of the selected projects in June this year, you replied that the approach so far has been very time-consuming for the FPS Economy. What adjustments did you make so that this year would be better and smoother? When the last nuclear power plants close in 2025, the origin of the funds of the Energy Transition Fund will also disappear. How will you ensure that innovative energy transition projects will continue to receive support?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, a number of measures have been taken to better organise the call. First of all, there is the date of 14 December when potential candidates had to announce their project. We will also call on external experts for the evaluation of the projects. Finally, it also looked at how technical and financial evaluation could be carried out in parallel. In substance, we have also organized this differently by defining the issues in the call much more closely. The Energy Transition Fund traditionally only covers the areas for which the federal government is responsible, but we have more clearly defined that we need additional research and projects for hydrogen and wind at sea than for industrial projects. The timing remains the same as other years. The final selection will be published in May. Then we will also be able to assess whether the changes we have made have also led to the desired results. The closure of nuclear power stations, Objective 1 and Objective 2, will lead to the closure of the fund. There's an assignment to look at alternative funding. I think this is crucial, because we need to invest further in innovation in the energy transition. Especially for the period 2040-2050 there are still questions we need to solve. I am thinking, for example, of storage, flexibility, demand management. A solution could be a recurrent expenditure in the budget from 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. For our group, research and development is important. New insights into the energy transition are extremely valuable. We were talking about hydrogen in the previous question. You also referred to it in your reply. The projects that were selected last year are making dreams and stick to a number of successes in our country. I will follow this with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u42	Madam Minister, when I submitted this question, there was a very different context. At that time there was still cause for concern, and today, unfortunately, there is already much more going on in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. I read in the news that the US government was in contact with European energy suppliers, to see if we should be concerned and what the state of affairs was. I note that the United States is now sending boats with LNG here. Is our government involved in this? Did we know about such talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u43	Mr President, in the context of the freed-up internal gas market in the EU, we assume that all potential suppliers and customers are always spoken to by the companies. When companies speak to each other, they should not inform us of this. If they do not announce their involvement spontaneously, it will remain very difficult for us to get a look at this. The gas market in Europe is functioning and the Northwest Europe region is very well connected. Because of the arbitration on the gas price, there are almost equal gas prices everywhere. In substance, your question is what will happen if Russia is suddenly unable to deliver and there is scarcity. Then we can assume that this scarcity will also spread across the EU. This solidarity is the basis of the EU and many regulations on security of supply in the EU have been drawn up in this respect. Of course, we are monitoring the supply of energy very closely. Norway has promised to produce more. The Netherlands has also announced to increase its production. LNG terminals in North-West Europe are running at full speed to ensure security of supply. I also refer to what I said on Thursday in the plenum, Belgium has 18 interconnection points. We have a direct connection with Norway and the Netherlands. We are only 4 % dependent on Russian gas. I would like to give some important figures. Of the gas entering our country, a third is intended for own consumption. So there's a lot more gas coming in than we need ourselves. The capacity of the pipes is also much larger than that used today. If we look at Belgian gas demand, about one third is for electricity production and the rest is for heating and feed stock for industry, 50% is for heat. This means that we must not limit the debate to electricity production alone, as sometimes happens these days. You said that you submitted your question for the escalation and announcement of Germany today. My prepared answer also dates from before today's announcement. I would like to stress that the supply of Belgium is guaranteed. We are well interconnected, there are no worries at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u44	Madam Secretary, you say there are no worries, but I am very concerned about the inhabitants of the region. However, I understand that we should be less concerned about our gas supply. That's good news in itself. With regard to the fact that the US Government has entered into a dialogue with international energy companies, I understand that you did not immediately know. In any case, it is an important matter to continue to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, the tenth round of negotiations on the modernization of the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) was held from 18 to 21 January 2022. Many observers point out that there are several indications that this modernization process will not solve the problems of the treaty and, in particular, its investor-state dispute settlement clause (ISDS). We can point out here that the amendment of the TEC requires unanimous adoption by the contracting parties and that several States have opposed the opening of discussions on the ISDS clause. Minister, have you received any information from the European Commission – which has been mandated by the states to negotiate the modernisation of the Treaty – on the state of the negotiations? Has a timetable been established for the next stages of negotiations and can an agreement be envisaged? When I say an agreement, of course I hear a positive agreement. In view of the fact that an amendment to the ISDS clause cannot be envisaged in these negotiations, several States – Cyprus, Spain, France, Greece, Hungary, Latvia and Poland – have asked the European Union to legally assess a collective withdrawal from the Treaty. In addition, several researchers have mentioned the possibility of exiting the TCE by means of an inter nal neutralisation between the members of the European Union of the TCE survival clause. Together with the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union of September 2021, this initiative would constitute a real step forward for the protection of European states and their energy transition policy. Can we get your return to this position? Do you intend to support an effective exit, given the survival clause of the Energy Charter Treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, we know how the Energy Charter Treaty is a brake on the energy transition, and above all on climate change. Some environmental organisations even speak of "poison for the climate". That is the reason for the new process of renegotiating this treaty. This is important, since it is the main investment treaty on which investors, particularly in fossil fuels, rely in order to be able to obtain in private arbitration tribunals public funds for compensation. There is indeed this 20-year clause, during which foreign investors have the right to continue attacking a State. But there is also this study recently published by the European Parliament, which takes the position that "an amendment or mutual withdrawal of the Energy Charter Treaty only between the Member States of the Union would have more immediate and certain effects". With the conclusion of the January 18-21 round, Minister, what are the next items on the agenda? The Union is now considering leaving the TEC if an agreement on the amendment of this Treaty is not reached, it is not possible. Given this, is an alternative compromise being prepared? If so, what is Belgium's position? I hope that this position will of course be the most "climateofavourable", in line with other European states. Would a date for a proposal for a formal agreement have already been set? In the absence of compromise, I really wonder what the final position will be. Can we imagine an exit from this treaty which, unfortunately, is from another time and represents the extremist ideology of a previous century?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u47	Colleagues, the tenth round of negotiations took place from 18 to 21 January 2022. You can read exactly what has been discussed in the public press release available on the TCE website. With regard to your questions about a possible withdrawal from the TCE, I can tell you what follows, and which is in line with my previous answers. The European Commission, together with its Member States, wishes to make full use of the modernisation negotiations in the coming months and to continue working on the definition of economic activity. If the modernisation process succeeds, EU Member States will no longer risk being attacked and involved in business with investors because of climate or energy sustainability policy. In the case of an exit, this will indeed be the case for the next 20 years because of the Sunset clause. Moreover, it is not clear whether all the Member States of the European Union will be on the same line in the case of a possible exit. The Commission has already organized a technical meeting. She explained the legal procedure for a possible withdrawal and will return to it if necessary after June, i.e. when a political agreement is envisaged. But for the moment she wants to focus on the negotiations. Belgium supports modernisation and continues to adopt a constructive position in the negotiations and related coordinations of the European Union. However, we also regularly request further explanations and analyses from the European Commission on a possible plan B. At present, Belgium does not yet have a formal position on a possible exit if negotiations do not achieve the desired outcome. If it turns out that this is a possible path, Belgium will wait for the Commission's initiative and, if necessary, will start a formal intra-Belgian consultation, ideally via the DGE, to determine its point of view in order to continue to discuss it at European Union level. As far as your question about the date of a formal agreement is concerned, June will be an important time. An ad hoc ministerial TEC conference will then be planned with the aim of reaching a political agreement in principle on modernisation. There is also a clear time line with three more rounds of formal negotiations until June. The European Union and its Member States had requested this in the run-up to the ministerial conference in December.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u48	Minister, I am not pleased with your answer. We agree that this treaty is anachronistic and obsolete and undermines all the transition policies pursued by the European States. The path that is being drawn takes too much on the Commission's wheel, even if we know the operational architecture of Europe and how it works. I believe that Belgium could play a little more and a little better the role of leader on a much more ambitious position in relation to this Treaty. I have tabled a motion for a resolution to help you go a little further on this issue because it is absolutely essential. We will agree on that. It is time, after several rather unsuccessful rounds of negotiations, to put up the cursor of our ambition on this topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u49	Minister, I understand your pragmatic approach. The preferred option must be to modernise the Treaty and to be able to bring it into line with our agreements on our climate ambitions. I do not hide from you that I am particularly cautious about the possibility of these negotiations succeeding. I think it is crucial to prepare a plan B that can protect our European states. Today, five energy groups are demanding billions of euros from several European states in compensation – and this public money comes from taxpayers' taxes – against their climate ambitions. This is on the other hand, and I hope that our administration, in conjunction with other European partners as ambitious as we are in terms of climate objectives, will be able to provide for an effective plan B to get out of the anti-climate dynamic of this old Energy Charter Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u50	"Madam Minister, at the 5 October 2021 Commission, you told me that uranium currently consumed in Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants comes from Kazakhstan and Niger, among others. We also know that Belgium has supplied uranium in part since 1975 to the Russian company TENEX, with which the contract for Belgium was renewed in 2016 and extended until 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u51	Madam Minister, you have given the names of the countries from which the uranium used comes in Doel and Tihange. These include Canada, the United States, Australia, Namibia, Kazakhstan, Russia, Niger, Malawi, South Africa and Uzbekistan, while noting that a country cannot account for more than 25% of Synatom's supply. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that uranium deposits and material production should not be confused with enrichment. Some point to our dependence on Russia in nuclear matters (25% dependence). However, a uranium bar is used about four and a half years in a nuclear power plant while a gas supply is continuous. Minister, do you confirm this 25% dependence on Russia and on what references?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u52	Madam Secretary, we know fairly well where our natural gas and our oil come from. The origin of the uranium is much more mysterious. Your predecessors constantly blocked the demand for transparency. It's a good thing you've given me more clarity. For example, we know that our uranium comes from Kazakhstan, Russia, Niger, Uzbekistan and Malawi. One of the arguments for accelerating energy transition is the geopolitical situation. That is clearly the case for gas and oil, but certainly also for uranium. Can you give more details on the concrete distribution between the countries of origin and the amount of uranium? Which conversion companies are we working with? In which plants is the uranium enriched? Were there any problems with nuclear fuel in the past? What are the consequences of political tensions and political violence in the countries of origin for the uranium price? If a contract for the supply of uranium should be renewed, what would be the impact of the current geopolitical situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u53	The supply of uranium has been coordinated at European level by the Euratom Supply Agency (ESA) since the Euratom Treaty. This ensures the diversification and adequacy of supplies to avoid dependence on one country. The Agency has far-reaching powers in this area. For the percentages of deliveries from the different countries, I refer to the ESA annual report. In addition, Synatom informed that by 2025 there were no supply problems. All long-term contracts for the purchase of natural uranium have been phased out since 2017. Only a limited number of contracts remain to ensure the supply of uranium to Belgian nuclear power plants. The percentage distribution of these uranium-producing countries varies from year to year depending on the start and end of the various contracts negotiated with producers. It must be noted that the uranium used in Belgian nuclear power plants comes from abroad. This is an interesting element for those who believe that leaving nuclear power will have a negative impact on our energy dependence. With regard to political tensions and violence in Kazakhstan and Niger, the price fixing mechanisms are independent of market prices. They were established when the various contracts were signed. In accordance with the diversification policy of the Euratom Supply Agency, Synatom's procurement policy is to give no more than 25% of the market share to each supplier. The Tenex contract ended in 2022. The last delivery of the Tenex contract has already taken place. Mrs Buyst, you asked if there have been any problems in the past. These are two aspects: uranium as a raw material and then fuel rods used in nuclear power stations. For the winter of 2020, we had a supply problem for Objectives 1 and 2. Questions were asked about this at the time in committee. The licence issued for the transit of fuel rods from Germany to our country was challenged several times before the courts by citizens, which meant that the fuel could only be delivered to our power stations at the last minute. This is also the result of our dependence on other regimes, whatever they are. Our country currently imports 90% of our energy. A question has just been asked about gas and another question has been raised about gas supply. With uranium, however, we are not much safer. For this reason, it is important to focus on resilience, independence and diversification of our sources, for example the hydrogen strategy we have been talking about before.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which allow us to twist our necks to a nasty cliché. We often read in the media that the release of nuclear power in Belgium would put us in the arms of Vladimir Putin or the Russian regime and would blow up energy imports from Russia. It is important to remember the truth. For gas, according to figures published by the SPF Economy, this represents 6.6% of Russian gas imports. The volume of Russian gas has never exceeded that of the Netherlands and Norway in the supply to Belgium. As far as uranium is concerned, the truth is that even our nuclear power plants depend for a significant part on the import of Russian enriched uranium. At European level, according to Euratom figures, 26 to 30% of enriched uranium comes from Russia, in particular from a Russian state-owned company, Tenex, which is part of the Russian conglomerate Rosatom. We must therefore leave the debate that we should choose between plague and cholera. In terms of energy, what will make us truly independent of external regimes that pose a danger to the peace of the European continent is to invest in renewable energies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u55	I cannot, of course, share what has just been said by the previous speaker, for the sake of the simple reason that apples and pears are compared. Of course, there is no uranium deposit in Belgium. There aren't any in France either. Neither was there in Germany. Hence, the location of the deposit – that is, all the countries I mentioned earlier – is confused with the location of the enrichment. Uranium that is not yet enriched can be handled with bare hands, which is not the case with enriched uranium. There we have four large companies that dominate the market: Urenco, which owns plants in the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom, Areva in France, Centrus Energy in the United States – China and Japan also have enrichment facilities – and Tenex in Russia, which we have just mentioned. When I said we confused apples and pears, it's like trying to compare gas and uranium. These are two completely different materials, and here, indeed, even if they are different, we can see that the import of gas from Russia is at least 40% in Europe. As we speak, the geopolitical situation is sufficiently complicated and serious enough for Germany, in Mr Scholz's name, to have decided to cut Europe's food supply through North Stream 2. So there is still a slight difference that must be noted, and I remember what the minister said. In a mixture of phrases that is usual to her, where she tries to convey her idea while trying to agree with other ideas – but no one is fooled – she talks about the fact that we need diversification. It hastened to add that this diversification, in terms of energy sources, can only come from hydrogen. In fact, diversification in the simple sense of the word, in the total sense of the word, amounts to using all the energy sources at our disposal to try to find an electric mix and an energy production mix that are as balanced as possible and also a transition mix. Therefore, why deprive ourselves, in this context, of an energy that can be found anywhere in the world, and not in some well-located places, which can be enriched by the majority of European countries – and which, moreover, are close and friendly countries – and which produces little CO2? This is the part of this conversation that I absolutely wanted to bring out for the good and simple reason that we will not lead our energy mix with ideas that remain ideas if these concretely produce inoperative and problematic results. In short, we need to diversify our energy production so that we are not dependent on countries with which we have political problems and even war problems and ensure that our energy mix is as low as possible in CO2, while ensuring security of supply and affordable prices. As our President said very well earlier in talking about hydrogen, I believe that uranium, and mainly enriched uranium for nuclear power production, is an asset in our country that should be kept.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u56	Mr President, at the time I was teaching, I learned that one must try to keep to the time allocated for a presentation and I also learned the importance of listening carefully. I have heard the Minister say where the uranium for European delivery is coming from at the moment. The Minister also told us where to find the figures. It also answered my question as to whether there have been problems with the supply of fuel in the past. From this we must decide that we must focus on independence in our energy policy. We will achieve this independence by focusing on renewable energy, sun and wind. We do not need President Putin for this, as I said in plenary last week, but we do need a Flemish government that takes enough out of the closet to place as many solar panels and windmills as possible. So geopolitical tensions are indeed an important argument in the energy debate, but above all an argument for renewable energy, away from fossil and nuclear energy. We must achieve an energy transition and I believe that we have a minister who makes every day steps towards 100% renewable energy. That energy transition makes us more resilient and our world safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u57	Madam Minister, developments are following each other at a rapid pace. Every day we read something different. Just now we heard the news, hot from the needle, that Medvedev clearly said that we were going to be caught with gas prices. Mr Cogolati, it is not about supply but about price formation. It is determined by the situation in Russia. So it is not about a supply problem, but about an affordability problem, especially for gas. This was also the subject of the informal European Energy Council on 21 and 22 January 2022. People in Europe are almost desperately looking for a way to respond to this. In the autumn there was a toolbox from which two studies were also made. There was an ACER investigation into electricity and gas markets and a ESMA investigation into financial speculation on the ETS market. The final analyses of ACER and ESMA may not yet be available, but it also addressed the issue of a possible voluntary joint gas procurement and gas storage, a suggestion made by the European Commission in the decarbonisation package of 15 December 2021. Madam Minister, can Parliament give some explanation of these discussions and of the Belgian attitude in this regard? We have also taken note today of the European Communication on the mandatory replenishment of gas resources. This also relates to the voluntary and joint gas procurement and gas storage, because everything is connected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 21 January 2022 the European Energy Ministers met in Amiens to discuss, inter alia, the issues of consumer protection in the face of rising gas and electricity prices, the concept of the primacy of energy efficiency, the development of low-carbon hydrogen, and the fair transition and social acceptability of the ecological transition. Madam Minister, I would just like to hear from you about this meeting and the positions put forward by our country. I would also like to say that on Saturday, 22 January, the French Minister for Environmental Transition stated that "the European Commission has taken these paths into account, for example, access for consumers at fixed prices over a longer period of time, protection against supplier failures, or stricter rules on gas storage". In addition, it has come back to us that a reform of the European electricity market has also been mentioned. We know that the release of the report of the Agency for Cooperation of Energy Regulators in April will be an important element in the progress of discussions on these topics. Could we, however, now obtain an overview of the initiatives envisaged, taking into account the points raised, as well as Belgium's views on them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. At the Amiens Energy Council, the discussion on how the Member States of the European Union are taking action to deal with high energy prices continued after the extraordinary Energy Council in October and the formal Energy Council in December. During the session, the key question was how to protect consumers from excessive price volatility. I put the emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable families. This is why Belgium welcomed the attention given by the Fit For 55 package to combating energy poverty. It is the Member States that are taking measures to reduce rising energy prices in the short term. I also reminded the European Commission of its important role in delivering measures such as the EU toolbox and facilitating long-term structural solutions. In the long term, therefore, Belgium supports the Commission's legislative initiatives on energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy communities, so that the energy bill is structurally reduced for families and SMEs and they are also actively involved in the energy transition. I also called for a more managed energy transition, with reference to ACER's preliminary report, which will be finalised in April. In particular, I stressed the need to steer the price of electricity in such a way as to encourage electrification. A second point of the discussion took place during the work session on energy efficiency. I expressed the Belgian support for the principle of 'energy efficiency first' in achieving the climate objectives. This principle can also reduce the transition costs of the entire energy system. However, I also warned that energy efficiency should be placed alongside other objectives, such as decarbonisation and security of supply. Some new technologies, such as hydrogen, can lead to increased energy consumption and yet play an important role in achieving climate objectives. As regards the voluntary joint purchase of gas storage, the Commission proposed this voluntary mechanism in its decarbonisation package of December. Some Member States, such as Luxembourg, felt that the legislative process was too slow for the current acute problem. The French Presidency has already begun to make the most of existing storage capacity. Mr Ben Achour, like you, I would be delighted to read ACER's report. I can tell you that I very much appreciated ACER's interventions at the Council and I agree with you that this report will be an important element in the discussions on this subject. I was also able to understand that ACER will be invited to work on your Finance and Energy committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I believe that it can feed on the discussion on European price formation and others.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased - but this is the least - that European coordination for the management of this energy price crisis will be initiated with some fundamental reflections on the structure of the electricity market in Europe. I believe that we must go so far to bring about structural solutions in the face of prices which, according to some, will not fall until 2025-2026. We've got work to do. This work must be carried out in good intelligence with our partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u62	Madam Minister, following the hearing on 25 January, I asked for a number of documents to be provided. We had already received the advice of the CREG from Minister Van Quickenborne, but writing the Belgian Offshore Platform (BOP) is even more interesting. In the hearing, you said that the sector responded to these figures and supported the increase in density, but did you deliver the right document to the committee? The writing contains four elements. Firstly, the BOP claims to have only been given two days to respond. Secondly, the BOP has always been in favour of increasing capacity, but with a density of 5 to 6 megawatts per square kilometre. Thirdly, the BPO warns that the said density of 12.5 megawatts per square kilometre leads to unexplored terrain, and that this needs to be evaluated. Finally, the BOP proposes to engage directly in a debate with the authors of the study so that they can respond in detail. Madam Minister, this seems to me to be something other than your statement: 'They support the increase in density'. A number of questions arise from this. Did the Belgian Offshore Platform indeed have the opportunity to interact directly with the authors of the study? Is the detailed feedback provided afterwards, and can we also get it? The warning to study the effect of this higher density in depth is difficult to see as general support for: they support a higher capacity, but preferably with a density limited to 5 to 6 megawatts per square kilometre. Have they or have they not directed a letter to you that effectively supports the higher density?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u63	Madam Minister, the opinion of the Belgian Offshore Platform was indeed very useful. The BOP actually preferred to claim additional zones for the final attainment of 6 gigawattuur offshore capacity. That's actually quite impossible. Mr Van Quickenborne has already said that we are actually full after the Princess Elisabeth zone. Nevertheless, according to the BOP, the pursuit of an increased density in the Princess Elisabeth zone pays to investigate and refers to the according to the quoted study of 3E relative impact of that higher density on the LCOE. Nevertheless, the BOP continues to underline the following:.As the existing zone already has the record for the most dense offshore wind zone in the world, developing 3.5 gigawatt hours within the Princess Elisabeth zone might lead us to unexplored terrain and is to be carefully investigated on all influences." So there are a lot of questions about the technical feasibility of scaling up. Madam Secretary, do you know of any further contacts between the study office and the sector in the last month? In the light of this feedback, will you stick to your view that the LCOE study of 3E can be concluded with sufficient certainty that the LCOE is manageable? Then, of course, there is a relationship with probability and effective subsidies will not be required for the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u64	It is not the first time these questions have been raised here. Your questions are intriguing me. I don't understand the background. It's the third time we've talked about the LCOE study here. We also had a hearing on this and on the advice of the Belgian Offshore Platform. It's a sincere question: am I missing something?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u65	If we are at risk of going to too high a level, my fear is that we will find ourselves in a situation where the taxpayer will have to put a whole lot of money on the table to pay for it. Because that optimal density is just pushed forward to ensure that support can be limited. Or can you say here by hand on the heart: it will take 0 euros? I understand that this cannot be deduced from that study because there is only the difference between scenarios. When I see the opinion of the CREG that warns that a number of technical parameters have not been taken into account, so that the costs associated with the leveled cost of energy (LCOE) may be much higher, my conclusion is that the budget may have to adapt a lot more. That's why I keep hammering on this. After all, we have heard from many quarters that these future windmills will be built without subsidies and that we will even get money back from them thanks to the two-sided contract for difference. If you allow that density to rise too high purely to reach the high number of gigawatts, we risk paying cash. I doubt that's the right choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u66	Now I understand your question and your concern better. I could not understand why reference was always made to the Belgian Offshore Platform. First, a word about the average density. In the eastern zone, this is 10,5 megawatts per square kilometre. Each concession has itself determined its classification so that the density varies from one park to another. It is located from 9.5 to almost 19 megawatts per square kilometer. When calculating the density per concession, we must be careful, as there are safety zones between the concessions, which are not included in the calculations. For the Princess Elisabeth zone, the average density would be 11.2 to 12.45 megawatts per square kilometre. I shall now turn to the questions. In order to assess the impact of density on the LCOE, we have asked the AD Energy to have a study on the LCOE carried out by an independent study firm. In this way, I have had an examination of whether increased production capacity is economically feasible and its impact on the energy production cost. This has happened, as I have explained several times, by 3E, in collaboration with the Von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics. The results were presented to the sector by 3E and discussed with him. I read in the opinion that the BOP indicates that it supports the capacity increase, but asks for further information. Afterwards there has also been further consultation with the sector, with input given on the basis of its experience in the first wind zone. These experiences, of course, do not cover the effect of the higher density in the use of wind turbines with a much higher power, which was considered by 3E using input from the turbine suppliers themselves. As I have said several times, the 3E study is not intended to determine absolute costs, but rather to compare different scenarios and determine which are cheaper or more expensive compared to a reference scenario and which generate more or less energy. The same method of calculation was used for all scenarios and therefore the different scenarios are also comparable. The 3E study was therefore submitted to the Council of Ministers only in the framework of the decision of the Council of Ministers of 15 October 2021 to increase the capacity target of wind at sea to 3,15 to 3,5 gigawatt. On the one hand, it is not surprising that some developers would like to have the lowest possible density to reduce costs, but on the other hand, the BOP does support the increase in density. This is also apparent from discussions we have had with some of the members of the BOP. This must, of course, be weighed against the fact that we have a limited space in the North Sea and a high demand for renewable energy, which has also been reflected in the decision of the Council of Ministers. Further input from the sector and the BOP is also very valuable for further studies on the absolute value of a possible strike price in case a two-sided CfD would be chosen in the tender. That strike price is not equal to the LCOE, given that it depends on many other factors that still need to be determined. The factor of wake losses will also be taken into account in this context. The BOP pointed out that it would estimate the vigil losses higher for both the low and high density scenarios. I think it would lead too far in this context to go into the details, but we did have a session here that was just about wind at sea. As you know, the public consultation has now ended within the framework of the tender we will organise, which includes the support mechanism. I am certainly available to Parliament to repeat the session we have had, especially in the light of the decisions that will follow on wind at sea. This will not be done in the form of laws, but in the form of decisions. I would be happy to explain the details here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u67	Madam Secretary, the bottom line is that we need to look at where we're going to land. A number of years ago, one of your predecessors put a lot of pressure on the fact that the subsidies should remain under control. At that time the comparison was made between the Dutch wind farms and the wind farms that are off the Flemish coast. It was found that in one place quite a lot had to be paid and nothing at all in the other place. That's gonna stick out the eyes, 'cause somebody's got to finance that. Usually that's the taxpayer or the energy user. That is why I should like to warn against putting too much effort on an enormous density when it turns out that we have to pay that cash. At the end of the ride we pay back double and fat. Then everyone will once again wonder how we in this country have to grant so much subsidies to offshore winds, while others can do so even for free or cheaper. That is why I stress this and want to remain closely involved in this story, in order to ensure that we move in the right direction. We know that the first zone has also been chosen to go to a very high density, just to ensure that a lot of gigawatts would be installed. That's what we paid for. I think making that mistake again is a bad thing. That is why I try to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u68	Your new colleague in office in the Netherlands stated that the Netherlands would draw up a plan that would take account of the complete cessation of the supply of Russian gas to Europe following the current tensions around Ukraine. In any case, European gas stocks are relatively low with a filling rate of 31% at present. With us, we've almost reached the 20% limit. That's about close to the lowest level in the last ten years. At the end of last year it was announced that a new study was being ordered on energy dependence in this country, but that seems to be mainly in the medium term and not the short term, which is also discussed in the Netherlands. How critical are the current gas stocks in Europe, including the gas storage of Loenhout? Are we threatening to land below the 30% critical limit by April? I can give you the answer to that, because we are already below that level. Do you share the concern of Dutch Minister Jetten to make a plan for the most negative scenario in the short term? Finally, what steps will you take in view of the potential risks to gas supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u69	Mr President, I have adapted a little bit the body of my question and the developments, but the questions remain. Minister, Russia's war against Ukraine violates its integrity and sovereignty and violates international law. It threatens our own security. In particular, Russia is waging this war because it transforms the revenues it derives from gas into weapons, soldiers and military capabilities. You have repeatedly reiterated that we are very little dependent on Russian gas imports. I would like you to clarify once again what is the share of Russian gas imports in total gas imports from Belgium. Since we depend so little on Russian gas, is it not time to stop this supply, to announce this stop? That's my point of view. This would finally be a substantial political gesture on the part of Belgium. It would also help to avoid fuelling this war through the income that Russia derives from it. This would avoid further explosions in gas prices and additional revenues. If this is not your proposal today, what are the plans for this? When are we going to stop these imports? Isn't it time to make a gesture rather than beg for the Russians not to cut us off? It's still the world upside down from today's crisis, if we don't do much and we hope that the Russians won't cut us off.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u70	Mr President, Madam Minister, apart from what is happening and which is very serious at the geopolitical level, I would like to stress that since Russia has decided to wage the war and violate the integrity of Ukraine's territory, with statements that come along, the German Chancellor has decided to suspend the import of European gas through Nord Stream 2. Medvedev ironically responds that in reality the consequence will be a terrifying rise in gas prices for Europeans. We are witnessing a political game, a game that can prove very dangerous, beyond what it represents in terms of danger and disasters for Ukrainians. Like everyone else, I had written my question before, but we already knew that the delivery of gas from Russia could be interrupted. That is the case today. I would like to know what progress has been made in updating Fluxys' analysis of the risk to gas supply and its impact on our power generation capacity. What are the implications of this situation for our electricity import capacity, given that the electricity production of neighbouring European countries – such as Germany, which faces a very high risk of gas supply in the face of this new situation of the conflict between Europe and Russia – not to mention the fact that Germany should help other affected Eastern countries as well? I listen carefully to your answers, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u71	I would just like to point out something, since I know the two countries. To Mr Dallemagne's attention, Russia exports through Ukraine. One of the stakes of this conflict is that a direct pipeline has been built via the Baltic, which will reduce transit and the two billions of revenue destined for Ukraine. So if you plead for a complete halt to the import of Russian gas, you will also cause Ukraine to suffer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u72	Mr Leysen, I am well placed as chairman of the friendship group with Ukraine to know that its inhabitants would prefer that Russia be given the means to arm itself and invade Ukrainian territory. Clearly, the choice is quickly made between the two options. Furthermore, since you are opening the debate, and even if I do not know whether the minister will be able to respond to it today, I have tried to identify transfers of money between Belgium and Ukraine as regards gas. We need 17 billion cubic metres of gas a year, of which 6 or 7 per cent are from Russia. At the current market price, 1 billion cubic metres per year could amount to 1 billion euros. I would have liked to hear the minister answer on this, because it is a huge amount of money. The whole philosophy of sanctions should be aimed at draining Russian capacity to wage war. So I am not following you at all in your reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u73	It was I who was wrong to dwell on a matter which is being dealt with in the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium plays an important role in the transit of natural gas. It is a role that we play at European level thanks to our highly interconnected network. Belgium also contributes its stone to the building of the world trade in natural gas through trans-shipment activities recently developed by Fluxys, namely the transfer of cargo between two LNG tankers. This is particularly interesting for Russian icebreaker LNG tankers who are not suitable for shipping outside the polar zones and who transfer their cargo to conventional LNG tankers through the Zeebrugge LNG terminal. These LNG tankers then continue their journey to their place of delivery, usually located far from our countries. These transshipments can have a significant impact on gas statistics from Russia and imported into Belgium, even if this channel is absolutely not required for the gas supply of our country. In 2020, the Economy FPS finalized the development of a model to determine the origin and destination of imports and exports, and to eliminate the transit of annual data. This makes it possible, in particular, to ignore the services that the Zeebrugge terminal renders to the international trade in natural gas. This methodology was used by the Energy DG of the SPF Economy in the development of Key Data 2020. Final data on the origin of imports of natural gas consumed in Belgium will be published at the end of February. They were updated on the basis of the latest information and revised downwards from the original estimate made in the course of 2021. The final version of Key Data 2020 should mention an import of Russian LNG covering approximately 2.1% of our domestic demand. In 2018 and 2019, Russian LNG covered 0.8% and 3.5% of our demand, respectively. I now turn to the tensions between Ukraine and Russia, and to the question of not stopping these imports. As a reminder, the natural gas market has been liberalized since 1 July 2007. Since then, the government has had to ensure that an infrastructure and a legislative and regulatory framework are in place for the proper functioning of the market. It is not within its competence to decide the type of contract entered into or to choose the partner with whom to collaborate to obtain the molecule. These activities are subject to market competition. Prohibiting the import of gas from a particular geographical area would be contrary to European market rules. Instead of considering market manipulation measures contrary to European law, the questions to be asked are as follows. Is global natural gas production sufficient to meet demand? Are transport infrastructures sufficient to deliver this gas to the final consumer? These issues will be addressed by the study I asked the Energy DG of the SPF Economy, with the support of Fluxys and CREG, on the prospects for gas supply, the expected short-, medium- and long-term developments and their impact on prices. I will come back to you on this subject once this study has been completed. With regard to transport infrastructure, I would like to point out that the Belgian natural gas network is at the heart of Europe and is very well interconnected. Only a third of the total natural gas import capacity is sufficient to meet our domestic demand. Even if imports of natural gas from Russia were completely stopped, our capacity to import and transport gas would be sufficient to cover our own demand and simultaneously help our neighbours if necessary. As mentioned earlier, Russian gas plays a minor role in our supply. Many other roads and producers are possible. However, the loss of Russian imports would put the entire European gas market under pressure. This could lead to further price increases. There is, however, no indication today that this could jeopardize the security of supply of Belgian consumers. As far as electricity supply is concerned, I would first of all like to stress that gas plants are covered by the protected customers, because of the crucial role of electricity in supporting the functioning of the gas network. They are therefore outside the cut-off plans. Electricity production accounts for 27% of natural gas consumption in Belgium. For comparison: residential heating accounts for about half and industrial consumption for a quarter. The supply of electricity in Belgium is therefore not directly threatened by an interruption in the supply of gas from Russia. This does not mean, of course, that we should not be vigilant. We are following the situation closely, together with the administration and Fluxys. As regards gas stocks and Loenhout, on 17 February, the average filling rate in Europe was 32.2%, not so abnormal after winter. The Loenhout storage facility was still filled with 2,3 terawatthure, i.e. 24.8 % of the total capacity, which is 9.9 terawatthure. Storage facilities such as Loenhout are not intended to ensure security of gas supply. They will not be able to avoid the consequences of a complete cessation of gas exports from Russia. However, they serve as a price buffer. From this point of view, it is important to make the best use of them and to ensure that they are filled for the coming winter. As discussed earlier in this committee and also in last week's plenary session, the long-term contracts for these storage capacities expire on 31 March. Thanks to the legislative amendment adopted by Parliament on 10 February, Fluxys was able to organise competitive auctions last Monday, with a reserve price of 1.70 euros per road awattuur, which corresponds to about 50% of the regulated rate. The results of these auctions will determine the completion of the infrastructure for the coming weeks and months. As regards the concerns of Dutch Minister Jetten, my administration had a discussion with the administration in the Netherlands. From this I believe I understand that there was no thought to make an additional plan, but only to correctly apply the provisions of the European Gas Protection and Recovery Plan in the context of an emergency situation. So far, no Member State has declared an early warning. An early warning means that the market alone would no longer be able to guarantee consumer security of supply. We keep an eye on the situation all the time. Current high prices are a global phenomenon, driven primarily by the growing demand for gas after the covid crisis. Europe competed with Asia on gas demand. It may be difficult to comprehend: prices are high, but the market works. We need to be careful with government intervention, which can be market-distorting and have more negative than positive effects. For Belgium, it is important to address the issue at European level and at least together with our neighbouring countries. That is why we are continuing discussions with the European Commission and with the other Member States to identify the measures most appropriate in the current context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u75	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I would like to point out that the sector refers to the fact that Loenhout can also play a role when a heavy winter prick occurs, where these volumes are needed. That is also the reason why the conditions of the gas storage of Loenhout provide that whoever stores gas there must have 30% of the volume on 15 February. We don't have that anymore today. I do not know whether there will be an extreme winter shot, but we must be able to watch over it. You reply that the supply of electricity is not compromised. After all, it is a protected customer. However, I know eleven million people who are probably not protected customers. This means that there may be problems in this area. You must be prepared for this and have the necessary discussions. I will continue to point that out to you. We must not minimize things. In this respect, it is very often stated here that it is only about 4% or 6%, depending on the source. However, we must look forward to what is happening in Europe. After all, it may be very extreme in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u76	Minister, I disagree fully with your reasoning. You're talking about a liberalized market, you're holding a liberal speech. You say that European law does not allow for the choice of suppliers. If I understand correctly, the Russians can play with the tap as long as they want, close it, open it, orient it, and we would be completely disarmed from what is now a weapon of war. It is Russia itself that uses it as such. The law changes according to our political interests. He has to evolve. I would like Belgium to take an initiative to abolish this supply, especially since we do not need it. It would be good if we stopped having financial transfers to Russia that uses that money to wage war. It would be moral, it would grow us, it would honor us and it would not endanger us. This is what needs to be done in times like these, and not to take refuge behind the law, which serves us today. Russia doesn't care about the law and uses gas as a weapon in its conflict with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u77	Minister, thank you for your complete answers. I'm a little disappointed that I don't have any updates to the study you ordered from Fluxys. But I understand that this study must be careful and take into account all the twists we have experienced. Everyone knows that Russian gas represents very little in our electric mix. But we depend on the countries around us, through interconnections. And these countries depend much more on it, for example Germany for 34 or 35%. We also know that European deposits (the Netherlands and Norway) are drying up and that non-European supplies will have to be found. This is already the case with Qatar, with which Fluxys has a contract until 2044. But we must not overlook and underestimate, as Mr Wollants has said, the variations in the situation which are due to the very serious problems - I stress this again and I hear what Mr Dallemagne is saying - at the Russian-Ukrainian border. These can have serious consequences on the copper plate, i.e. in Europe. This would, in any case, cause very high shocks or prices in our country, which can then have a serious impact on our supply and on the lambda citizen, knowing that our country is heavily dependent on gas for heating and housing and that you propose, in your policy, to install many gas plants that will have to - you have given the percentage but I have not retained - consume, if I have a good memory of almost 27 to 30% of the total gas we need for our consumption. All of this is therefore not neutral and I cannot encourage you to be very vigilant. In any case, I remain very attentive to the conclusions of this study and to your return to us as soon as it is concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u78	I realize it's not customary, but I'd like to respond. I take note of what Mr Dallemagne has said, even though he has now left. Sanctions against third countries cannot just be pushed forward by one minister. This subject is also discussed in the Committee on External Relations with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In geopolitical and human terms, this is a serious matter. I just wanted to clarify that. In fact, therefore, Mr Dallemagne must address the Foreign Minister when it comes to sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u79	You have made a pertinent remark. Obviously, the case keeps us all busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u80	Madam Secretary, I have two questions about consumer protection. They have been merged, even if they are two different things. Firstly, the sale of energy contracts by telephone. Luminus himself was the victim of spoofing, but the people who were called, of course, much more. My position on this is clear. Especially now that prices have risen even further, this type of product cannot be offered in this way. People need to be able to think about that. Just being disturbed by phone and then being offered a contract, with the commitment link I have already asked the Minister about, are practices that we do not want. You yourself once told me in a plenary session that the cheaters and cowboys should get out. Well, I ask you again about your intentions regarding telesales and other forms of sales. Secondly, the Energy Ombudsman says that in January there were up to 2,000 complaints, where there are 600 in a normal year. Every two or three minutes, someone knocks on his door. To some extent I can understand that, but the problem also lies to a large extent with the energy suppliers. I myself took the test once and tried to contact my own energy supplier. Today it is almost impossible to enter the suppliers. Again, I understand it and it is difficult for everyone, but I can imagine that a family that is in trouble or wants to be clear somewhere, wants and needs to be able to reach its supplier. That is a real problem, Madam Secretary. Do you, or with your colleague De Bleeker, intend to call on the energy suppliers and point out to them that accessibility is very important?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u81	Mr Verduyckt, as far as the sale of energy contracts by telephone is concerned, I have already said that I spoke to the suppliers. In doing so, I can understand some of the problems they are facing. At the same time, I have indicated that it is completely unacceptable for energy contracts to be recruited through unfair, even abusive practices. In this particular case, the supplier has terminated the contract with the subcontractor, but the question remains whether all the problems are solved. We cannot deny that the energy suppliers are making great efforts with regard to payments. For example, many energy suppliers signed the COOVID charter last year. Last week it was read in the press that the questions for a payoff plan have doubled. But I am also the energy consumer's union, along with you, Mr Verduyckt. I want to limit unacceptable market practices and I want to do so in the following three ways. Firstly, we are going to inform the energy consumer about his or her rights and the possibility of lodging a complaint. For this purpose, the FOD will launch a communication campaign next day. At the same time, we can relieve the customer services of the energy suppliers and lead the customers to the place where they can lodge a complaint. Secondly, in addition, we are going to increase the chance of getting caught. I asked the CREG to set up a task force with the Energy Ombudsperson and the Economic Inspectorate to better and faster identify complaints and complaints patterns. In this context, we must also consider whether the fines have a sufficiently dissuasive effect. On this point, of course, I will consult with my colleagues Dermagne and De Bleeker. Why do I want to use the CREG to set up that task force? The Energy Ombudsperson is on the side where the complaints are pouring in, the Economic Inspectorate is on the side where sanctions are sanctioned if necessary. I want that information flow to go much better. Secondly, and more importantly, the CREG has a number of supervisory powers, including the supervision of a well-functioning supplier market. For example, we have taken initiatives on dormant contracts based on CREG studies, opinions and proposals. By placing the Presidency at the CREG, I am counting, together with the Energy Ombudsperson and the Economic Inspectorate, on the rise of the complaints patterns, so that we can also act in a rapid and diligent manner. In the case of dormant contracts, this proved to be possible quickly, even in the short and medium term. In the short term, together with the Economic Inspectorate, we have stopped practices. In the medium term, on your initiative, Parliament adopted a bill on dormant contracts. The third point is strictness with regard to door-to-door sales. Suppliers have indicated that they will do so. At the end of this month, so very soon, suppliers will propose a collective code of conduct that they will apply to door-to-door sales. That's the last chance for me, because I'm out of patience. I am prepared to offer suppliers that opportunity to come up with adequate solutions, but if that solution does not work, then in my opinion we should not shy away from the legislative path. The new Omnibus Directive allows a number of proportionate measures to be taken. We must then have the courage to see whether door-to-door sales can also be restricted. Although door-to-door sales are not included in the blacklist of the Omnibus Directive, the Directive allows door-to-door sales to be subject to certain conditions and even to prohibit them, in so far as such prohibitions are proportionate and non-discriminatory. The problems with door-to-door sales have been dragging on for a long time. We have also been patient on this subject for a long time. So now is the time to get rid of it. If the sector comes up with such a code of conduct, I am prepared to look at it favourably, but it is the very last chance. If the new code of conduct does not turn out to be valid, there will be no new warning. It is therefore in the interest of the sector, because the less expensive contracts through door-to-door sales, the less pay-off plans should be allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u82	Madam Secretary, I think you're right to call it unfair and abusive practices. A few posts on social media immediately sent me a lot of testimonials. Besides selling by phone, door-to-door sales are even worse. We have already tabled a legislative proposal in this respect, so we are very happy to reach a solution together. I hear you say today that you are giving the sector one last chance. I'll take a critical look at that last chance. After all, energy contracts are not products to be sold by telephone or at the door, because they are too important for the family budget. I welcome your clear language and I can only support the measures you are announcing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u83	Madam Secretary, the Research Centre for Nuclear Energy (SCK) in Mol is one of the world's leading nuclear applications research centres and is one of the world's largest producers of radioisotopes. To maintain that leading position, the SCK is currently developing a new type of nuclear reactor, MYRRHA, in which the country's best minds and the world are involved. The SCK aims to embed the development of the reactor in an international cooperation organisation for which other countries are also wanted to cross the line. We are also looking at the Länder for this. In the previous government, a special envoy for MYRRHA, the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, was appointed for the search for foreign funding. As a special envoy of the federal government for support to the MYRRHA project, his focus was on finding foreign partners to work with the SCK to further develop the prototype of a nuclear reactor powered by a particle accelerator. Under the current government, the Special Envoy has, as far as I know, fallen away, hence some questions. What is the project status of MYRRHA? What are the main findings of the project evaluation? Where are we on the search for external funding? What steps have been taken and what has been achieved so far? Finally, is the role of Special Envoy under the current government entrusted to someone? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u84	Ms Verhaert, the MYRRHA project and the SCK have developed an international outreach strategy, in collaboration with the specific 'MYRRHA international outreach' task force. The Task Force was set up by the MYRRHA ad hoc group and focuses on the follow-up and support of the outreach actions of the project, which are intended to welcome international partners. Within the strategy adopted, the emphasis is on historical relations and existing partnerships with the following countries: France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan and the European Commission, which, of course, is not a country. The promotion of the project was delayed by the pandemic, which delayed the planned events in the interested countries. The Council of Ministers of 23 July 2021 has taken a number of fundamental decisions for the MYRRHA project. This was done on the one hand by confirming the funding of the federal government for the following matters: firstly, the realisation of the first phase of MYRRHA, in particular the MINERVA installation; secondly, the proof of the technical reliability of the accelerator required by the MYRRHA infrastructure to fulfil the main task, in particular the transmutation of radioactive waste through a prototype of an accelerator-driven system; thirdly, the availability of a research infrastructure that can address societal challenges, such as the development of innovative radioisotopes for cancer control and by supporting the development of innovative fusion energy technology. Fourthly, the further research and development activities necessary for the next phase of MYRRHA (MYRRHA phase 2a) Extension of proton accelerator and MYRRHA phase 3a); Fifth, the operation of MYRRHA phase 1/MINERVA until 2038. On the other hand, the Council of Ministers also established the MYRRHA IVZW as a legal entity to welcome the international partners in the project. Mrs Verhaert, these are initiatives that we have had to wait a long time for. That is also a dossier in which this government has finally taken a decision. This is a very good result for increasing the opportunity to initiate international participation. I am pleased to announce that MYRRHA IVZW is also fully operational today. From a technical point of view, the SCK CEN provided the preliminary safety report of MYRRHA phase 1/MINERVA to the safety authorities, in particular the FANC, by the end of 2021. The outline of the basic design of the building of the accelerator and its units is also completed. The other components and components are already in the prototyping phase. It is up to the ivzw to decide how this mission can best be carried out. Assign these assignments to an internationally recognized Belgian figure from politics and whether science can be a way to facilitate contacts with foreign partners. That was an answer to your question about the Special Envoy, Mrs Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u85	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As you yourself say, a number of important decisions have finally been taken. We both say it's NIRAS and the SCK CEN World Summit. Indeed, it is important to entrust someone within the government with the function of having that project open more doors at political level. That is very important if we want to maintain our global position and if we want to find funding. I continue to urge a special envoy or someone within the government to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u86	Madam Minister, the high energy prices, especially the electricity prices driven up by gas prices and carbon prices, have given rise to the question of whether the model used to determine prices, combined with technology without marginal cost, is achieving the best results. Depending on the study being consulted, other results emerge. Some argue that the system of marginal pricing is the most efficient way of price formation. Others indicate that it gives a disproportionate advantage to a number of producers and a similar disadvantage to consumers. However, much depends on the starting points. Assuming a perfect market, we are likely to achieve results other than in more realistic market conditions. In the past, as one of the few countries, the United Kingdom had launched a different model for this, but it is far from clear whether the country has experienced any advantages or disadvantages and, of course, an island is something other than the continent. High carbon prices today provide structural support for low carbon technologies, as windfall benefits are added as naturally as possible, which are not always desirable. That leads to a number of questions. How do you look at the opportunity to examine marginal pricing? What study work has been carried out in the past in a European context? Have there been exchanges with, for example, the United Kingdom about their experiences and lessons in that context? Are there talks in a European context at the moment and what position does the government take in this respect? If that is not the case, is it the intention of the government to raise the matter in the European context? Finally, do you see any reason to examine the aspect of carbon pricing in relation to marginal pricing and to take it into account in the current or future accompanying policy for wind energy in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u87	Mr Wollants, I shall begin by addressing your third question on the UK. I must correct something about this before we can look at it as a possible example. As far as is known, in the United Kingdom, at least for day-ahead markets, there is also a pay-as-clear model. Historically, the United Kingdom was part of the single day-ahead and intraday market and, since the liberalisation of the energy market, followed the same market coupling procedures and pricing methods as the continent. Since the Brexit, market coupling has been carried out according to a different procedure, but price formation is still based on the pay-as-clear principle. The only difference is that the UK's trade fairs, APX and Nord Pool, are currently independent of each other. As a result, there are de facto two prices, depending on the stock exchange on which an economic operator operates. However, the CREG understands, from its contacts with Ofgem, that this model is currently being questioned and that preparations are being made to reconnect both exchanges and thus set a unit price. Other market segments, such as balancing energy, are currently operating according to the pay-as-bid principle, both in the UK and Belgium. I now respond to your questions 1, 2, 4 and 5. In October 2021, the European Commission proposed a toolbox to EU Member States to address short-term price increases in wholesale energy markets. It was also stated that: "(...) under the current market design, gas still sets the overall electricity price when it is employed, as all producers receive the same price for the same product when it enters the grid - electricity. There is general consensus that the current marginal pricing model is the most efficient one, but further analysis is guaranteed." At the same time, ACER was asked in the medium term to "Ask European energy regulators to study the benefits and drawbacks of the existing electricity market design and proposals recommendations to the Commission where relevant." ACER followed up and published its first preliminary assessment in November 2021, explaining a number of elements of the current market design. In a second part, on which ACER is currently organising discussions with the European regulatory authorities, the pros and cons of the current draft will be described. The analysis will not only look at the historical results of the market design, but will also seek to assess whether the current model is still appropriate for future anticipated developments in the energy markets, in particular the large-scale investment needed to enable the energy transition. The results of the analyses are expected in April. Personally, I attach great importance and see an opportunity in a proposal in ACER's report about the managed transition. The challenge lies in combining renewable energy objectives and fossil fuel reduction with security of supply and affordable energy. In doing so, we must dare to ask ourselves whether the current market model is sufficient, whether the right infrastructure is being developed, whether regulation should be adjusted, and whether we should develop a roadmap for market models, infrastructure and investment. My answer is a little longer, but it was a rather fundamental question. A lot of people have also dropped out. Let me start with the gas market. As mentioned above, 27% of the 190 terawattage gas consumption goes to gas plants, the rest to heating and industrial applications. There are 3.2 million households that heat and cook on gas. We can't change that overnight. Reliable and affordable supplies go hand in hand. If supplies are secured, there will be enough gas in Europe and prices will be stable. Europe is not paying the marginal production cost for gas today, but a scarcity price, and the outlook is that we will do so for more than a year. That is not normal, and it requires measures. In the first report, you will read that this is due, among other things, to the European Union's incentive to phase out long-term oil-indexed gas contracts, in favour of short-term hub trading. So far it has benefited us billions of euros, but now it is at our disadvantage. I therefore support the proposals at European level aimed at a healthy mix between long and short-term contracts, but also at a smart mix, which takes into account the reduction of fossil fuel use by 2030 and 2050. Within the pentalateral energy forum, we are currently discussing to what extent a different regulation of gas storage can contribute to this. The price setting on the electricity market is happening today according to the last marginal unit running. In many cases, that will be a gas plant. If we get gas prices under better control, this will also reduce prices on the electricity market. As ACER points out, we need to be careful to question the pay-as-cleared principle, because it is the basis of the interconnection of the European electricity markets and ensures the efficient deployment of electricity production in the single electricity market. To adjust this, if that's desired, we can't go ice in one night. However, I believe that it should be possible to stabilise parts of the electricity price by recognising that they are basically fixed costs, just as we have seen in the transmission network tariffs and now in the distribution network tariffs where there is more and more going to a capacity rate. This transition is not as strange as the telecommunications sector is thought of. Who still pays their telephony and internet in euros per call-minute or per byte? There is then a lot of capacity available to windmills, to capture maximum wind power when the wind blows. There is then a lot of capacity of solar panels, to capture the solar energy as much as the sun shines. There must therefore be sufficient transport capacity to carry the electricity from the place where it is generated to the place where it is needed. There must then be batteries and storage devices to absorb oversupply and to return electricity if there is sufficient demand. Further back-up capacity is needed to ensure security of supply. With all this necessary infrastructure it is no longer just a cost per kilowatt hour but rather the service electricity, electricity as a service. I also present that idea to the experts from ACER that I will meet shortly. With a CRM, we have already taken a first step. Make no mistake, providing sufficient capacity avoids having to pay scarcity prices and stabilizes the electricity price. We saw scarce prices in 2018, when almost all of our nuclear power plants were out. We also see this today in France, where only 20% of the nuclear park is available. A stable, reliable electricity price is a key element for investment in electrification alongside a relatively low price at alternatives in fossil fuels. Then there is the carbon pricing via the ETS mechanism. Neither Europe nor the federal government is questioning it. On the contrary, Europe has foreseen in its Fit for 55 package that such a mechanism should be put in place for buildings and transport. It is a powerful tool to discourage the use of fossil fuels on the one hand and to launch the financing of investments in sustainable and emission-free applications on the other. So I am convinced that the combination of a roadmap of regulation for a healthy mix of short- and long-term contracts in the gas market and an electricity market that evolves towards electricity as a service and a powerful ETS for industry are the right ingredients from a managed transition to a climate-neutral European society. I also advise the government in that sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u88	Madam Minister, I will have to read this again because it was a comprehensive answer, and I thank you for that. I do think that we need to think carefully about the possible consequences. Maybe I made my question about the CO2 price unclear. As long as a piece, usually the most expensive, is produced in the whole package with natural gas, will the carbon price, which will perhaps be EUR 120, 130 or 140 per tonne, be added to all renewable energy prices? Is that the most efficient model? Is that an option? This means that all electricity allowances must be paid for, whereas only one central allowances must be submitted for. That's what my question was about. I am very pleased that this is the subject of study. I believe that we can get a number of things out of your answer in the context of the hearing announced. There is a lot of work to be done to find out in which direction it is going, what is most efficient and what the consequences will be. Some studies indicate that shifting to another model could also trigger some form of gaming on the market. Well, that depends a lot. It's a complex debate. I agree with you that there may not be many people left in the story.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament 55025179C by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Warmoes's 55025233C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ravyts' 55025236C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u90	Madam Minister, the CREG has recently issued a destructive opinion on the network operators' report prepared by Elia last year. There are notable things in that. A number of issues relating to the reduction factors are being adjusted. We can see that this report has a number of effects, because we have to see that there will be much more demand for electricity, according to the network operators' report. There is less contribution from abroad. Renewable energy will also play a smaller role. We can indeed read today on all news sites that this will mean that one or two additional gas plants will be needed to cover all of this, which means that it will not only be the two major gas plants that have always been announced, but that there may be two more. Well, that's news, isn't it? It is also punishment that the CREG clearly indicates to Elijah that serious mistakes have been made and that Elijah apparently refuses to provide certain information. Which brings us back to the eternal battle between Elijah and the CREG. What is even stronger, a few hours after I submitted this question to the services, was that CREG opinion suddenly disappeared from their website. I am also asking myself the necessary questions. Madam Minister, what lessons do you draw from the network manager's report and the CREG's partial opinion on this matter? Is it true that more capacity will be needed for 2026 and therefore more gas plants? What actions will you take following the continuing difficult cooperation between Elijah and the CREG? Finally, in what period can you clarify the various aspects of this matter to Parliament? How will you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u91	Mr President, Mr Wollants, you will understand that I am beginning to say that we cannot anticipate things here. The method of determining the volume is described, namely in Article 7j of the Electricity Act, which spells out this process. It states that the Minister shall instruct the Network Manager by 31 March at the latest, after consultation with the Council of Ministers. This instruction shall mandate the organisation of the auctions for the relevant capacity delivery period. That instruction shall also establish the parameters necessary for its organisation, determine the maximum quantity of capacity that can be contracted under the auction concerned, of all holders of unproven capacity and determine the minimum quantity to be reallocated for the auction organised one year for the capacity supply period. This instruction, which comes last in line, is based on the proposals and advice of the regulator, the network manager and the Energy Directorate-General. This starts with the system operator's calibration report in November, followed by an opinion and a proposal from the regulator, on the one hand, on the demand curve and on the other, on the parameters for the auction. We are still waiting for the advice of the network operator and my administration on the proposal from the CREG. As provided for in the law, I will receive it by 1 March 2022 at the latest. In other words, the dossier is not complete at the moment. It is therefore premature to comment at this stage on the regulator's proposal. Although I am going to make a number of comments. I want to start with the tensions between Elijah and the CREG. I'm referring to what Danielle Devogelaer once said here as part of a hearing. She was asked to reflect on the tension that can arise between a regulator and a network operator. This tension is not new, we have seen it before in this dossier. It then referred to the fact that each actor has its role to play in maintaining security of supply and keeping the costs of CRM as low as possible. This means that it is not unusual for both parties to relate in this way. Of course, I listen carefully to the arguments of all these parties. It is not necessarily a bad thing that both parties have a different analysis or other emphasis. What's this all about? This is a methodological issue. I talked about this with the CREG and with Elijah. It actually goes back to a subject that we have discussed a great deal in this House, the methodology used in relation to climate years. I refer to all my previous explanations on this. The European methodology in this field sets out three options on the basis of which climate years can be taken into account, namely the forecast of future climate years, weighted climate years or 30 historical climate years. Within the framework of the various steps that we still have to lay down in the Royal Decree volume, much has been said about this in this House too. That discussion was broken down in terms of methodology and in the context of the State aid decision. In its new adequacy and flexibility report, Elia has chosen to apply the first option, the forecast of the future climate years, the 200 synthetic years based on the RTE methodology. There has also been discussion on this issue. The regulator has also asked questions about this, but this has been examined from the inside and outside in the context of the State aid investigation, together with DG ENER. ESA was also involved in this. This is covered by the State aid decision. The calibration report, for the determination of the volume, also took account of this new methodology for climate years. Let me remind you that we are the first Member State to apply this methodology so far. Elia has also used this new methodology, and it is on that that the CREG says that it does not understand that very well. Elia indicates that there is a higher volume, but compared to the volume we determined in the previous auction, T-2024-2025 and T-2025-2026, that gap is not that big. When one looks at the overall volume of peak power on which one comes out, that is not so huge. If I read on the VRT website how one or two gas plants are being established, I do not understand that at all, but I will say something about this later. In substance, the CREG says that Elia tells him that the difference in volume is due to the new methodology used and the CREG does not understand that. Secondly, the CREG proposes that perhaps a different methodology should be applied. Allow me to make it clear that the CREG is the regulator. Under the CRM, the CREG has been allocated specific powers. The CREG should be able to exercise its powers. In that sense, I addressed Elijah and then confirmed my statement by letter, because I could of course suspect that there would be oral questions on this, quite rightly, because I am using this dossier with great transparency. I asked Elijah to look constructively for solutions and said that the necessary data should be provided to the CREG, so that the CREG can carry out its legal tasks. In this context, I also said that the methodological changes relating to the climate years should at least be explained in substance, as well as their impact on the calculations. This is important for the instruction and for the determination of the volume in the context of the auction T-4 in 2026. I told the CREG that I asked Elijah that question. I also informed the CREG that the method for determining the volume was decided. Indeed, it was checked by the European Commission in the decision on State aid. So we are sticking to the determined method, the first option in the methodology, namely the forecast future climate years, two hundred synthetic years, which gives the best possible estimate of the impact on climate change. That's where we're at today. So now I'm waiting for the advice of Elijah and my administration. After that, I am surprised that you did not refer to it in order to submit the complete dossier in Parliament. The resolution stipulates that the Minister shall consult Parliament before the parameters are established. Of course, I will not submit this until the dossier is complete. I propose that we put that moment in the agenda in consultation with the chairman of the committee, as we had a very interesting afternoon meeting last year. Perhaps at that point we can discuss further the impact of the change in the methodology regarding the climate years. Suddenly I see also on the website of the VRT lights up: "1 to 2 gas plants extra." Right now, I can't really understand how they got it. In fact, that is an assessment based on a calibration report, apparently a CREG report that is not yet complete, because there are still data missing that Elia still needs to forward. So I do not quite understand how the CREG can make a ruling on this, because what comes out of the auction is the result of the auction. On the one hand, the CREG says that it is full of mistakes, and on the other hand it draws conclusions. Okay, fair enough, but I keep repeating it: the auction is technology-neutral. Now it is simply premature to assess or comment on the results. It is premature and even beside the issue. I can only frame it in the nervousness surrounding this file. So let us stick to the procedures and methods, work step by step, and at the moment that means waiting for the two opinions to come in. This then leads to a provision of volume and is consulted between one and the other than Parliament. You also referred to an opinion published on the website and then removed it. As I said, the CREG itself indicated that it did not receive enough information from Elijah. So I asked Elijah to meet that. Elia promised me that would happen. I understand from the CREG that, since it is not yet a final document, it was not intended to be published. I note, moreover, that the CREG has not sent out a newsletter either, and I also see that he is communicating it to the press himself. So I assume that the CREG will proceed to publication as soon as it has received all the data. Last year he also published the opinions. Last year, in my view, Parliament was the first to take note of the opinions, even before they were published.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u92	Madam Minister, last year too, that first network operator report was the basis for calculating the rest. Last year you gave a presentation here in committee, even before you took the final decision, based on the figures in that report. If you look at that network operator report, you can read that if you have a larger demand, you can pick up less on the basis of the Expected Energy Not Served (EENS). Less can be expected of foreign sales in T-1. And less can be expected of renewable energy that contributes. If you bring those elements together, you can only conclude that there needs to be more capacity. The amount of existing capacity is not increasing. We must count less on the amount of renewable energy. In what way will that be filled in? The only conclusion is that more should be auctioned unless you say that Elijah's methodology is not the right one. But I'm not hearing that in your answer for a while. Secondly, if the CREG says in its report that Elijah refuses to make information available, then there is an effective problem. The CREG can now claim that the opinion was incomplete and that it should not be published, but there is an adoption date for the document, namely 1 February. So it was probably ready on the website a long time ago. Strangely enough, and that must be a coincidence, it suddenly goes offline when it comes to Parliament. I find that very bizarre. You also say that we should not anticipate the results. In fact, last year we all used that network operator report to see what would happen. I'm doing the same thing now. My only conclusion is that more capacity needs to be auctioned. And that will be mainly gas plants by 2026 unless two plants are kept open. Maybe that's where we can find the answer. That may be a valid suggestion to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u93	I hear what you're saying. Everything starts with the network manager's report on 15 November. In the previous auction, we continued on the network operator's report, after advice from my administration which argued why. After all, we had a proposal from the CREG on the demand curve, which proposed transferring 2,000 megawatts. The network operator's report, with which everything starts, is the first document to be produced and is the calibration. Afterwards, there will be a demand curve. So it is equally correct to say that our volume determination was based on the demand curve of the CREG the last time. Then there are the advice of the administration. The volume determination is based on the whole set of documents. The consultation of Parliament last year took place on the basis of the whole set of documents. I note that a document is now being taken out. But it is only one aspect. The immediate translation into gas plants is premature. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u94	I would like to express my concern. I have great respect for your commitment and your work, but you must be careful not to embed yourself in a chosen methodology. The methodology is a means. There's a discussion about that. There are rules for auctioning, but we are not only moving towards a new reality, but also towards new insights. We must not bury our heads in the sand and really want to do so as decided. We need to see if the parameters, methodology and elements that are being processed are still entirely correct. We have to go beyond the defense of the choices made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u95	That is exactly what we are going to do here when we consult Parliament, isn't it? That's exactly what the advice of the FOD will go about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u96	Madam Secretary, that is appreciated, I wanted to say that. In due course, we should also have a discussion on the CREG. The CREG is a regulator that depends on Parliament. You have decided with the government to appeal to Elijah as a party to the elaboration of many things. Even though Elijah is a listed company, that's no reason not to. However, we must bear in mind that Parliament will allow the institutions that have been created to play their part. There are always insights. In the banking world, for years, it was explained why the risks with the subprimes were all covered in that methodology. I remember the anger towards those who dared to question it. According to certain models, there was 99 % chance that nothing would go wrong or that 20% of the bank's assets would not be lost. Six months later, all banks had to be saved by the government. Without bringing polemics into the political debate, I would like to call for realism. The choices made must be borne in mind, but at certain times we must ask ourselves whether we are really doing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u97	Mr Leysen, the methodology used is that of the regulator. Last year we talked a lot about the methodology. Especially in the adequacy and flexibility study, but also in the context of the volume determination, we are faster than other countries to apply ACER's methodology. I fully agree with your call to remain critical forever. Just for that reason, my administration has a study, an after-study, carried out into the CRM on some of the methodological aspects, and a consultation will take place shortly. In this way we can explore what can be improved with a view to the next auctions. It is an evolving exercise, which we will always have to evaluate with open sight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u98	Madam Secretary, it is about more than the auctions, but I will end the discussion now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u99	Mr President, Madam Minister, I understand, of course, that this kind of news is quite unpleasant, despite the remoteness that you are trying to make through your explanation. You recall what we have always known: there are always tensions between the regulator and Elia. However, if I am well informed of what has been communicated by the press and the VRT, it would take four new gas plants, not two as you claim and as you claim to have said to Europe. But finally, it is your problem, to have claimed it to Europe and to be stuck in a mechanism. You have arbitrated two auctions that have been validated by Europe. You contorted to catch up with the first auction that did not go well and that was to give rise to two new gas plants. The substance of the case is very simple. It should be noted that Elia had previously, under the previous legislature, assessed the need for new gas-fired power plants at 3.6 gigawatts. And 3.6 gigawatts, if we can count, it's four times 900 megawatts, obviously four large gas power plants, if we follow your gas reasoning. Moreover, we know that in Elia's forecast, which clearly dominates the case... And here I join colleagues: Elia is everywhere in this case, including at the government table, beside you, as a minister in his own right, to tell the government what to do. In addition, he will break the Vilvorde plant contract so that he can find a solution to your bank auction and try to pass it on to the European Commission. Again, I'll refer you to your file. That's your problem. I am not sure that the European Commission will be pleased with this situation - quite the contrary. That's where we're at. We have calculations and methods that, in other words, are different. But at one time, strangely, Elia was quite on the same wavelength as the analysis of today's CREG. Once and for all, we as Parliament will have to know exactly what is happening. Because I think we're starting to lose patience in a case where all the signals show us that we're going to be panicked and out of supply. There is no point in trying to sleep everyone with intellectual reasoning. There must be a confrontation between points of view and methods; and the CREG, which depends on Parliament, must come here to Parliament to explain this situation to us. I note that a colleague, Bert Wollants, tabled a question and that shortly after his question was tabled, the report to which he referred disappeared from the CREG site. This is the opposite of transparency. I don't know how things finally happened. I'm not accusing anyone. I am simply saying that at some point we have an independent institution, which is there to give its point of view and which does it, and which, by I do not know what pressure or decision, takes freedom or, because it has been asked, has to remove a report from its site and make us lose important information. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to this fundamental and fundamentally serious element, which is a problem of transparency and evaluation. I think Mr Leysen, our chairman, is quite right. A few months ago, we could still think about the world in which we find ourselves in a totally different way. Today, this is an absolutely new situation. We have aberrant prices on the energy market. We have a war conflict at our doorstep. We know that all this will have enormous consequences. Russian politicians write it on social networks. I think it is time to take you together, look at the situation in the face and implement this government agreement, which, contrary to what your Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs De Sutter, has said, provides for gas-fired power plants, but there is also, if there is a supply problem - and there is a supply problem - an extension of nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u100	Madam Minister, first of all, we do not know every pixel of the photo of the necessary capacity today. Well, we do know what's in the picture. We must also note that at the previous auction, no megawatts were deviated from Elia's first network operator's report. When Kris Peeters asked here in committee how the allocation was made, exactly the same figures came out that Elijah had put forward at the time of the very first network manager's report. Nothing has changed. I did not immediately point out that this would be different now. That is why my conclusion goes in that direction. Secondly, there are some questions about what happened to the opinion of the CREG. I find it very bizarre that an approved opinion suddenly disappears from the website. We will also put that question to the CREG. Purely informative, I had also asked the head of the CREG Management Committee if anything had gone wrong there, but he has not yet found the time to answer my question. In the area of independence, there are still some questions to be asked. Thirdly, I support the proposal by the majority to organise a hearing with Elijah and the CREG, so that we can get the necessary information and discuss it directly, so that at least the other colleagues can take note of the opinion of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u101	I will consult the Minister on the arrangements for further work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u102	Mr President, I repeat that we will in any case consult Parliament and that I will discuss with you when this would fit in with the committee's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u103	I'll come up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u104	Madam Minister, I could have started my round in Belgium, because I understand that there are also problems with a nuclear power plant in Belgium. France, the nuclear nation in Europe, has a lot of problems with its nuclear production today. As much as ten percent of the production is out today and not for short, but for a long time. What does that mean for our market and our prices? Is there any consultation with the operator or with the French authorities on this matter? Who's gonna follow up on the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u105	Mr President, I came back in the course of the debate. I do not know what you have agreed between you, but I am a little surprised to see so many speeches on a question put by Mr Wollants with several round trips. These are not the usual practices and I am not sure that this is in accordance with our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u106	Your question, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u107	Mr President, I think we need to hold debates in the right forms and in the right way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u108	I have noted your remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u109	Minister, on February 8, EDF announced the shutdown of three nuclear reactors in the coming months in order to carry out checks with regard to corrosion problems on the safety systems observed on four other reactors currently stationary. EDF also decided to extend the shutdown of two other reactors, in which corrosion problems had been identified or suspected, until 31 October and 31 December 2022. Moreover, on 7 February, EDF communicated a reduction in its nuclear power generation in 2022 and 2023 due to an industrial programme loaded with 43 reactor shutdowns for maintenance and control, including six 10-year visits, plus four scheduled shutdowns started in 2022, which will continue in 2023. Minister, in view of the fact that the shutdown of French nuclear reactors is two of the factors contributing to the increase in electricity prices in our country, can we get your analysis of the real risk of rising prices in the wholesale market and in particular of increasing the electricity bill in 2022 and 2023? Can you also tell us what initiatives are being considered to prevent or contain such an increase? The French electricity system operator had already indicated, on 4 February, due to the high number of stationary reactors, his vigilance over the end of the winter for the supply of electricity. Could you please inform us of the contacts with Elia regarding the impact that the closure of French reactors could have on the electricity supply to our fellow citizens. We know that a supply problem could arise in the event of the closure of six French reactors. In such a situation, a significant contribution to the network should be compensated. Are any measures envisaged to address this situation? Have there been any contacts with French officials on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u110	Minister, France is going to record a further decline in the supply of electricity. Indeed, on 8 February, EDF announced the next shutdown of three nuclear reactors for control reasons – which is good news, because it is necessary to remain safety demanding and all these facilities must be scrupulously maintained and monitored. However, what will be the impact of this decision on the Belgian market in terms of price and supply? We know that, most of the time, France benefits from exports of electricity from our production.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u111	Colleagues, since EDF announced on 15 December 2021 that the Civaux and Chooz power stations had been shut down due to defects in the welding of the tubes of the safety injection circuit, we are following the situation closely. Indeed, the French authorities had already sent us what is known as an early warning, in accordance with Article 14 of the European Decree on risk management, indicating that they were in a state of enhanced alert. There are regular updates between the French and Belgian administrations. Thanks to a relatively mild winter, no significant problems have emerged or are to be expected. So far, in addition to increased vigilance, no further crisis measures have been requested. We are seeing record levels of imports from France. The coupling of European markets seems to work very well there and France is able to buy 8 000 to 9 000 MW from Germany. Imports into France sometimes reach more than 13 GW, which was still considered impossible ten years ago. With the resulting transit flows across Belgium, our network is 101% saturated. Of the 65 GW of nuclear production capacity, between 43 GW and 51 GW are currently available, or 20% less. Although the higher-than-expected unavailability has not caused a significant security of supply problem, it has pushed already high electricity prices to basic prices above EUR 300 per MW/h. For the moment we do not see any real components of rarity emerge. The components of rarity are fixed prices for demand management, but less efficient power plants are now more demanding. This combined with high gas and CO2 prices means that balancing market prices sometimes easily exceed EUR 1 000 per MW/h. In the short term, for this winter, Elia monitors security of supply on a weekly basis and informs me every Friday, for the coming week, of the potential risks arising from this increased unavailability of the French nuclear fleet. So far, I have not been informed of any risks. Nevertheless, I have scheduled a meeting, to be held tomorrow, with my French counterpart to discuss the situation of French reactors. As regards the medium and long term, I would like to point out first of all that France's contribution of only 4 megawatts has been calculated in the CRM for the 2021 auction with a view to delivery in 2025-2026. This is true at times of simultaneous scarcity. Therefore, France is hardly expected to be in short supply. However, it is important to moderate the European system as realistically as possible. This is important for the CRM, but also for the adequacy studies and network development plans at national and European level. A reliable and realistic input of data and hypotheses by all European system operators is essential. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have always had to include an additional unavailability for the French nuclear power stations, on top of the unavailability they themselves have indicated. That was because it was established that the real availability was always lower than the ones our neighbours gave up. This was repeated this year. That is why I asked my administration to urge in the European Electricity Coordination Group on 15 February 2022 that all countries, in particular our neighbour, make efforts to provide reliable and realistic data and hypotheses in the framework of the mentioned studies. My administration has also contacted the French administration to send that message bilaterally. So tomorrow I will discuss this issue with my French colleague. As regards Mr Verduyckt's third question, the upcoming national adequacy studies, i.e. the adequacy and flexibility studies, will hopefully be based on the updated data and assumptions of our neighbours in terms of available capacity. Otherwise, I will not hesitate to make the necessary corrections. You referred to the reference scenarios from the European Resource Adequacy Assessment (ERAA), which should be used as a mandatory basis for the volume calculation in the CRM. However, we have insisted in the discussions with the Commission that there is still room for corrections. We did that, too. See the decision on State aid in the Royal Decree of 28 April 2021, Article 3. We have also made use of this possibility and have already taken into account in the CRM the extra unavailability of the French nuclear park, especially when we set out the scenarios. By the way, I wasn't the prime minister who did that. Should the unavailability become even greater, it may ultimately have an impact on the number of scarcity moments and thus possibly also on the necessary investments in capacity. This is followed every year by the annual volume calculations. So you are all asking whether we should be concerned. From what I've just outlined to you, it appears that we're following up on the case. Ladies and gentlemen, much more fundamentally, this shows that nuclear power stations, especially the present generation of nuclear power stations, are also facing technical problems. Those in favour of reversing the core exit will lose sight of this. After all, we all remember the problems that occurred in the Belgian nuclear power plants during the winter of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u112	Madam Minister, I understand that we should not be very concerned, but it has not helped, of course, that these plants have failed, even if we do not depend heavily on them. I do indeed recall the discussions and scenarios concerning the extra unavailability of these plants. I was somewhat surprised at the time, but apparently that was not entirely out of the blue. Mr Marghem says that it is good for safety that these plants are taken out of service when there is a case of insecurity. It would still be wrong. It is, of course, about long-term closures, not a few days or a few weeks from the end of those power stations. Madam Minister, I fully agree with you when you say that there is something to be said about any form of production. This kind of incident indicates to me that if it goes wrong, it is not about short-lived but long-term inability, which also shockes the production market. After all, it is not about small amounts of energy. That is an element that we cannot just wipe off the table during the whole debate on the core step.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u113	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers, which seem rather reassuring. I take note of this and we will remain attentive to developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u114	Minister, I look forward to more precise information in time, which will be given on the occasion of a later question that I will ask you as you meet with your French counterpart tomorrow. With regard to Mr Verduyckt's considerations regarding the shutdown of nuclear power plants and the reflection we must have on that, I suppose that Mr Verduyckt prefers to have incidents with machines that must be maintained. I also assume that he is familiar with the French nuclear park and compares it to the Belgian nuclear park. I'll be modest, I don't know the French nuclear park. On the other hand, I know the Belgian nuclear park very well and I know that it is very strictly maintained. With all the rigorous measures taken since Chernobyl and certainly since Fukushima, it is important to monitor and maintain these facilities very strictly. But like any facility, there may be incidents in other large infrastructure that cause damage. I believe that a cost/benefit balance must be made between the stops, i.e. reliability, the average length of time between two stops, and what can be done by such installations as services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u115	Madam Minister, the announced Fit for 55 plans are particularly important. They are now being discussed in Council working groups. Energy is just an important part of the Fit for 55 planning. It is therefore only logical that I should like to hear from you what our views on this matter are.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u116	The revision of the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Directives is essential for the energy transition. Belgium expressly recognises that it also provides a structural solution to rising energy prices in the long term. Indeed, discussions within the Energy Council Working Group on these energy aspects of Fit for 55 have been ongoing since September 2021 and have accelerated the review process under the French Presidency. A second revision text of both revisions was submitted for discussion by the Member States on 9 February. Belgium took the following positions within the Council after preparation by ENOVER in which all Belgian entities were involved. It is, of course, a question of powers which do not lie solely with the federal government. Concerning the Energy Efficiency Directive, Belgium stated that energy efficiency plays a crucial role in achieving the climate objectives. All Member States should contribute fairly to achieving the proposed EU objectives. Belgium welcomes the legal anchoring of the first principle of energy efficiency, which ensures that energy efficiency measures are taken into account in key policy and investment decisions at the earliest possible stage. However, Belgium has a number of reservations about the administrative and bureaucratic burden and feasibility of certain proposals, such as the limited time available to governments to develop additional measures if necessary to achieve the EU target, namely one year, the expiry of the exception for renovation of historic public buildings, and the increase of the annual energy savings target combined with the reduction of the measures that may be eligible for this objective. Belgium welcomes the proposal that part of the policy measures under Article 8 focus specifically on households in energy poverty. As regards the Renewable Energy Directive, Belgium stated that renewable energy plays a crucial role in achieving the climate objectives and that each sector is important, namely transport, industry and buildings. Belgium has indicated that a certain degree of flexibility is needed in achieving targets, including for the binding sub-objectives by sector, namely transport, industry and buildings. Belgium supports the strengthening of sustainability criteria and recognises the potential of electricity in transport. In December 2021, the European Commission published proposals for the revision of the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive, as well as the decarbonisation package for gas and the reduction of methane emissions. The analysis of these proposals is still ongoing at expert level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u117	I thank the Minister for the answer and will read it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u118	Madam Secretary, perhaps a slightly less loaded subject is the whole story of the breakthrough in nuclear fusion. It has been European news in recent days that scientists would have set a record on the amount of energy that could be generated by nuclear fusion. Of course, we all know the largest fusion reactor, ITER. That will probably be the biggest nuclear fusion project ever. As you know, this project is supported by other European Member States, but also by China, the United States, Russia and Japan. This ITER project would be the final step before nuclear fusion could become commercially accessible in the future. I know that fusion is not something for tomorrow or in five or ten years' time, but I still think there are a lot of hopeful things. I would like to know from you how you view the future of nuclear fusion in our country. How is this country involved in this project, given that it is supported by several other European countries? Have you considered supporting this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u119	Mr van Lommel, I have always said that I am open to an energy source which does not pose problems of non-proliferation or nuclear waste and which is inherently safe. Nuclear fusion meets these requirements and does not require any uranium or other heavy metal to function. The question of uranium supplies does not therefore arise here either. The process works with two hydrogen isotopes, deuterium and propylene, of which only relatively small quantities are required. It is provided to extract deuterium from water, with any kind of water appropriate, and propylene by a reaction with lithium in the reactor itself. As you say, this is not for tomorrow. Even according to the most optimistic estimates, we will not be able to count on nuclear fusion for our energy supply in the next decades. The roadmap talks about at least from 2050, but it is also important to focus on energy supply in the future. However, Belgium and its research institutes have a long tradition of research into fusion and cooperation in the framework of European fusion research. The Belgian Government and its ministers have always supported this research, both on the ground and through financial contributions. An initial contribution is made by the aid granted in the context of the merger investigation itself. Since 2014, the management of the merger association in Belgium has been entrusted to the Royal Military School. In 2015, the Belgian State signed an agreement with the fusion departments of the Belgian universities UCL, KUL, UGent and ULB, the Royal Military School and the Study Centre for Nuclear Energy which governs the implementation of the European fusion programme for the Belgian part. The research programme consists of preparing the ITER experiments and developing the concepts for the future demonstration installation DEMO. The plasma physics laboratory is a department of the Royal Military School. That laboratory has specialized in research on the heating of the fusion plasma and in the containment studies of the fusion plasma. It also carries out theoretical activities to support those two domains. It coordinates the Belgian participation in the EUROfusion consortium and provides the secretariat of the Belgian merger associations. In addition, the Belgian State is one of the members of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy, the European body that manages the construction of ITER. Europe finances most of the annual operating costs, but Member States must also contribute individually. Belgium has also paid a direct contribution to the ITER Joint Undertaking since 2007. Belgium also grants a direct grant to the Royal Military School for research activities and support for ITER. This appropriation is intended to provide additional support for research activities in the implementation of Europe's contracts and notifications for which Europe only partially meets. Furthermore, the KMS also receives a subsidy for the development of prototypes, given the extensive expertise on ion cyclotron heating antennas and plasma diagnostic systems. An attempt is also being made to involve the Belgian industry in the merger process. This is done by Agoria, who has a contact cell to help the Belgian industry with the necessary information to establish contacts. For this purpose, an amount is made available to Agoria.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u120	Madam Secretary, we agree on this. The nuclear fusion road map speaks of 2050, which is a long way off. However, I am pleased that we are contributing to the project, because I believe in its future as far as energy is concerned from 2050 onwards. I can only hope that the support will be maintained in the future and that the government will continue to carry out the necessary ambition in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u121	Madam Secretary, I am pleased to be a guest on the Energy Committee. We sometimes have the impression that the coalition agreement has not been worked out in the same detail on all points, but at some point it is. A fine paragraph states that the federal government will adapt its policy to the needs of the Länder. This is called the asymmetric policy. We have often discussed this in other committees. However, this passage in the coalition agreement does not seem to be very much in place. We have already questioned Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval. Several discussions have led to them having sent a letter to all colleagues, to you and other ministers and Secretary of State. They ask what they will do to implement what was agreed in the coalition agreement. Now it appears that there has been little answer to that question. That's why I'm making a round in the committees to check that out. Madam Secretary, did you read that passage in the coalition agreement? What will you do? Will you reply to the letter from both ministers? What's your intent?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u122	Mr Loones, it is nice to see you here in committee. My administration has indeed not put forward any proposals in response to the call made by my colleagues, Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval. The survey concerned the identification of bottlenecks or technical difficulties in competences. As a result of previous state reforms, energy powers have already been divided and delimited institutionally. The division of competences is supported by an institutional consultation mechanism ENOVER/CONCERE, where federal policy and regional policy are coordinated and discussed and where international positions are defined. For the energy powers already regionalised, therefore, there is already, logically, an asymmetric policy. Further asymmetrical exercise of federal powers on energy is not desirable and could even be counterproductive. For example, the federal government must guarantee security of supply with a three-hour reliability standard. I do not see how we could work asymmetrically for such strategic matters, which are also of great social importance. Of course, federal energy policy can have a different impact on price aspects in the regions. For example, we have extended the target group for the social tariff to those who are entitled to an increased allowance. A third of Brussels' families, for example, comply with the status of increased compensation. Furthermore, we have chosen to take everyone into account for the heating allowance, because the citizens in our country are warming up differently and there are also differences between Flanders and Wallonia. Of course, we also take into account what is happening in the regions. We are thinking of Ventilu plans on the connection of wind energy to the sea. The decision on the capacity increase in the Princess Elisabeth zone came after another, the one concerning the hybrid energy island. This will ensure that we can carry out this capacity increase without additional grid reinforcements being required on top of the planned grid reinforcements. Similarly, we do not set a path in the basket near the regions, whether Flanders or Wallonia. In short, I believe that, thanks to the current ENOVER/CONCERE consultation mechanism, we can take into account the reality of the different regions and take this into account in federal policy, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u123	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I hope to be able to be physically present next time, that always makes it a bit more pleasant. Let me give you some answers. I fully agree with the need for strategic cooperation, especially in the future and beyond at European level. However, if you feel less affected by the relevant passage in the coalition agreement, because there is a specific demand for the identification of bottlenecks and this has already been dealt with in the previous state reforms, then I do not entirely follow you. In the very exciting hearings in the Joint Committee of Chamber and Senate, where the analysis of past state reforms was made, lists of energy and climate bottlenecks were filled for days to come. The report from that hearing will be available soon and I invite everyone to take note of it. The debate will continue. The example you give, Ventilus, proves that steps have already been taken, but that we are not yet there. The logic of the system is special. A windmill on land is a Flemish windmill, but a windmill at sea is a Belgian windmill. That seems to me to be the same as a windmill as Walloon if it is not higher than 100 metres on a mountain, and if it is higher in Belgium. That's the same absurdity. I suggest that the debate be continued, because there seems to be room for improvement. I take note of your reply, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u124	Mr President, Minister, I will have to put my question out of my mind for a moment, because the system of questions has been somewhat flattened, as I understand it. My question concerns specifically the Objective 1 and Objective 2 recovery act, which we have asked several times in the past. Meanwhile, the public consultation has taken place. It appears that the website still states that it is being analysed and that a draft law would be tabled in Parliament. We also know that you need to complete that process by the end of 2022, in order to work out everything. My questions are therefore relatively simple. What is the state of play with regard to the analysis and, therefore, the drafting of the draft law? When can we expect this design? What lessons do you draw specifically from everything that has been sent in?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u125	Mr President, Mr Wollants, thank you for your question. So you can see that a lifetime extension is not very obvious, that all kinds of things can go wrong and that even now, in 2022, we still have to repair the previous life extension of 2015. An extension is indeed not very obvious. An EIA and public consultation are required for an extension, not only here in Belgium, but also in neighbouring countries within a 1,000 km radius of the nuclear power plant. A number of countries have requested the consultation provided for in the Directive. For some countries this was also accompanied by a second round of questions, which had an impact on the work. In the meantime, the meeting is over. The SCK, which is the facilitator in the process, and my records hold all the necessary information. A dossier is currently being prepared for the Council of Ministers containing proposals for the explanatory memorandum and for the documents required under the European Environmental Impact Assessment Directives, including a reasoned conclusion that takes into account the results of the EIA and the consultations. Normally, the complete file should reach me by the beginning of March 2022. We will then discuss it at the Council of Ministers and give it to the Council of State for its opinion, after which it can be submitted to Parliament and discussed here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u126	Madam Minister, it is indeed important that this extension should take place. Your introduction does shed a slightly different light on what the Prime Minister said in the government statement. He said at that time that if a decision is taken on a lifetime extension of the nuclear power plants in November 2021, there is still more than enough time to extend the operation of that plant. You are saying something completely different here, so I have to conclude that the Prime Minister was either misinformed or that there was a completely different plan than you made out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u127	Every year I look forward to the annual report of the National Bank of Belgium. This year, of course, there was a passage around the green transition. The report was presented last week and warned that too fast a transition to green energy would imply high price volatility, which would lead to a much higher cost of transition than is actually necessary. We are in fact in favour of phasing out fossil fuels instead of an immediate one. Significantly increased energy prices would also be due, inter alia, to underinvestment by gas and oil companies which also experienced a decline in demand at the start of the corona crisis. Restart eventually implied a shortage. The pressure on banks and investors is such that there is no longer any investment in fossil fuels. As a result, current gas and electricity prices are higher than expected after the turn to green energy in 30 years' time. Madam Minister, what conclusions do you draw from the annual report by the National Bank of Belgium on the causes of current rising energy prices, the implications that would be caused by the too rapid transition and underinvestment in fossil fuels? Have you had any discussions with the National Bank? Do you believe that underinvestment in fossil fuels affects mainly people with lower purchasing power? What have you done to prevent these apprehended distortions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u128	According to the National Bank, one of the driving forces for inflation is the rapid recovery of demand following the removal of the main constraints resulting from the sanitary crisis, where supply could not follow. The IEA confirms that this determination also applies to the energy market. The geopolitical tensions we observe have an additional upward effect on energy prices. The specific European market functioning rules have not provided a buffer against this. The IEA adds two points to this. Firstly, the allegations that volatility in gas and electricity markets would result from the transition to clean energy are, to say the least, misleading. Secondly, a well-managed transition to renewable energy will help reduce the volatility of energy markets and their impact on businesses and consumers. The National Bank's analysis is in line with this and states that the brutal price increases do not correspond at all to the desirable profile of a gradual and predictable increase in fossil fuel prices. It further states that the increased price of ETS duties makes a small contribution to inflation. Furthermore, she says that slowing down the energy transition will cause even more damage to growth. For example, since 1980, the number of weather-related files in insurers has tripled. There is also a need for a clear and transparent policy framework that provides for a gradual and predictable increase in fossil fuel prices through carbon pricing in order to encourage investment in the energy transition. In doing so, the government must ensure that the energy transition is socially equitable. The National Bank indeed states in its report that there were insufficient investments in oil and gas production capacity during the period before the pandemic. It assigns it to the lower market prices at that time, not to the transition policy. I don't know what you mean by too fast a transition. With the speed with which our transition needs to be made, we want to avert a runaway climate change. It is physically fixed and scientifically calculated. The IPCC calls this the carbon budget. There's good news, too. The National Bank recommends a clear and transparent policy framework for the transition. This framework, which tightens up the share of renewable energy and reduces our energy consumption, will have a moderate effect on prices and is currently being developed at European level. The targets are also set, i.e. minus 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. The discussions on the concrete impact are ongoing, namely in the Fit for 55 package. This also includes measures to ensure a fair and inclusive transition, with specific attention to the employment and purchasing power of our citizens, the competitiveness of our businesses and the fight against energy poverty. The federal government attaches great importance to this social component of the present package. This is, for example, the measure we have taken for the social tariff. The annual report shall be drawn up by the National Bank on a sovereign basis. The current energy price crisis particularly affects people with lower purchasing power and people in energy poverty. As a government, our task is therefore twofold. In the short term and during the price crisis, support measures are needed. For this we have taken a comprehensive package of measures, including a temporary VAT reduction on electricity, a heating premium and an extension of the extended social tariff. In the medium term, more structural measures are needed, with investment in renewable energy accelerated and our energy consumption reduced further. It will reduce our dependence on fossil fuel imports and price volatility. The revenue associated with structural climate policies, such as carbon pricing, should be used as a priority to support people with lower purchasing power in the transition, thereby reducing their vulnerability to price increases and increasing their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u129	Madam Secretary, thank you for the nuance. Of course, you are right about inflation, and the rapid increase in demand after the covid crisis has a lot to do with that. I have said this many times, and I have taken the lead in the debates on this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy many times. By moving too fast, I mean that tomorrow's decision is made to do something. I believe more in the path of graduality, just because everyone has to be with us. You yourself say that the transition must be social and just, but if it is to be and if everyone has to be with us, then we will have to follow the path of graduality. The transition will not be socially just if there is currently under-invested in fossil fuels. One cannot make that click from today to tomorrow. That is the concern about the transition that I also read in the report of the National Bank of Belgium, which I myself had before, but we will come back to it in the future anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u130	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we have the privilege of concluding this commission together. Thank you for giving me the floor on the last question. In January, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency reported that an extension of the two most recent nuclear power plants in our country, Doel 4 and Tihange 3, was entirely possible from a nuclear safety and technical point of view. In fact, they worked at the Agency level with your administration to plan all the operations to be taken so that this extension would take place within the time constraints of the end of 2025, early 2026. We had enough conversations this afternoon, and even before, so that you would know what I think of your reading of the government agreement. I will refer again to a statement by your Deputy Prime Minister that there is no question of co-existing the CRM plan for gas power plants with a nuclear extension. On the contrary, if we read the CREG, it seems to be something that becomes more and more realistic. I want to point out that some parties of the majority, including the President of the Vld, are proposing this solution and that, therefore, we must prepare you legally, this time, for an extension of two of our nuclear reactors. With regard to Plan B – which is called as it is intended and which I will simply call "extension of the two more recent nuclear power plants" – what initiatives have you taken to prepare this path at best, as the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and your administration have done? Have you had any contact with ENGIE in this context? If so, what does it show? I can't wait to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u131	Marghem, the government has requested that the AFCN and DG Energy identify the various steps in the environmental incident assessment procedure, with a view to preparing for the possible launch of the environmental impact report. AFCN and DG Energy are in contact for this and will report their findings to the relevant firms. For the other requests to the AFCN, I refer you to my competent colleague for the AFCN, Minister Verlinden.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u132	Are you done, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u133	I'm done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic707x.u134	Again, you don't answer the questions! I asked you if you had taken any initiatives to prepare the legal framework that is parallel to what DG Energy and AFCN are doing right now. I made it very clear. I was also asking you if you had any contact with Engie in this context. You did not answer that question. I note that you do not want to answer the questions. This is very regrettable in that Parliament is here to ask questions and to exercise control over the action of the government. I'll have the opportunity to repeat it in other places. Thank you.
