ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u1	Questions No 55025472C by Mr Sander Loones, No 55025820C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, No 55026002C by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and No 55026071C by Mrs Sophie Thémont are transformed into written questions. On the agenda is Mr Boukili's question No 55026008C, which is not present. We come to the attached questions No 55026213C by Mr Tim Vandenput, No 55026244C by Mrs Valerie Van Peel, No 55026329C by myself and No 55026484C by Mrs Valerie Van Peel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u2	Madam President, the questions I had tabled in connection with these combined questions were fully addressed in the discussion of the draft law. Madam Secretary, if you would answer something completely different, I would be happy to hear it, but I suppose not. Well, then my questions are basically out of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u3	Colleagues, I was going to say the same thing, unless you have other things to do. I have the impression that the exchanges have already taken place during the vote and that we will probably still have exchanges in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u4	I will update the figures for the plenary session. Then I'll give you the new numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u5	So we are not going back to the subject today. As Mr Tim Vandenput was absent, his question No 55026213C was not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u6	Madam Minister, as you know, it is not always so obvious for an OCMW to map the ability of living-age beneficiaries today. It's basically trusting the information the client communicates. I leave the discussion about foreign affairs out of the question, but certainly with regard to domestic assets, a possible solution is to give the OCMW's access to the CAP. Let me make it clear that one cannot see how much is in the account, but can look up information on which accounts there are. It will not happen very often, but it has happened already, also in my own OCMW, that turned out that we got access to accounts that did not have any money on them. In that case, a living wage will indeed be awarded. Afterwards it turns out that there is another account with money on it, which the OCMW doesn't know about. Of course, that cannot be checked without access in the CAP to the number of accounts in someone's name. I am therefore in favour of it, and I have tabled a legislative proposal for it, which could be done without looking at the assets. A client can then be informed that they know about the existing accounts and ask him to give access to them. If he doesn't give that at the time, the file will be closed by itself. That's no different than what's happening today. Then the right to privacy will remain assured. I read in the new law of 2 December 2021, which adapts the organisation of the CAP, that the re-use by one third of the data provided by the NBB to the person concerned in the context of the right of access to personal data for administrative purposes is prohibited. That worries me a little, Madam Secretary. After all, I wonder if that has an effect on this too. Should the OMCWs no longer request the data from the person who comes for a living wage? What is the reasoning behind this? So I have also tabled a legislative proposal on this issue. Wouldn't it make much more sense that the OCMW simply has direct access to the overview without accessing the accounts data? I also had a few questions about abroad. How do you want to deal with that? Will you look at whether there is any possibility of taking initiatives for living wage clients who come from abroad, as is certainly the case with Ukrainian refugees today? In this way, we can have a better idea of which money matters still play a role or have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the share of tax fraud is many times greater than aid fraud. The proportion of fraudsters in social assistance is systematically overestimated. However, social fraud is relatively rare, as studies and controls show, and it is relatively small amounts. Following the amendment of Article 6 of the CAP Act of 8 July 2018, it is indeed prohibited for OCMWs to request data from the National Bank for the protection of private data. This dossier is currently being discussed in a working group on administrative simplification in which OCMWs, the federations, my cabinet and the POD MI are represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u8	Madam Secretary, I immediately heard from your first three sentences that you were against it. It is not because social fraud is limited or hardly convenient that it does not exist. It is normal that, if an OCMW creates a file in which it should, by the way, already mention today what assets someone has, there should be a control mechanism on it, with respect for the privacy rules. That is exactly what I propose with this access to the CAP, where only the number of accounts is seen and not the power that is on it. That seems to me to be an obvious and easy step. I don't understand the disadvantages. On the contrary, it will reduce the workload of the OMCWs. I hear from your answer that there will never be any during this period of government, but I do find your opposition to it strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u9	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u10	Mrs van Peel, the granting of the installation premium to refugees enjoying temporary protection is in the same way as for all other beneficiaries. The OMCW decides who is entitled to this premium by checking that the persons concerned are no longer homeless. As in all other cases, the inspection services of the PPS Social Integration will check that the rules are followed. In order to clarify the OCMW's, my administration will supplement the information on its website on the right to the installation premium for temporarily protected refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I think there is one specific question to which the OMCWs should have a clear answer, namely how to deal with the specific situation of refugees who are being treated in a host family. Does this arrangement apply there or not? There are arguments pro and contra, but that could lead to different interpretations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, unfortunately we regularly receive reports about the excessively long lead time of a dossier for people who want to have a disability recognised, including for the assessment of the disability for the additional child benefit and the evaluation of the disability for certificates. The treatment periods indicated on DG Han's website do not appear to be met in practice. In addition, those concerned complain that the examinations carried out by the medical examiner sometimes take only a few minutes and the description research is in fact unworthy. The parents involved feel dissimilar and misunderstood. Is the table of treatment periods as stated on DG Han's website up to date? Why are there major differences between the different provinces in treatment periods, which may range from 1 month to 4 months? What measures will you take to address the evaluation for children differently? What measures do you provide for to shorten the overall time limit for handling the files?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u13	Mrs Samyn, the timetable table is updated regularly and provides an overview up to last month. There are indeed differences per province, depending on the availability of the control doctors. The DG Han is suffering from a serious shortage of staff. We hope to resolve this through the recruitment rounds planned. Since the sixth state reform, evaluations of children have been a matter for the regions. However, DG Han has undertaken to complete the current files as soon as possible. Great efforts are being made to shorten deadlines without compromising quality. We are seeking a structural solution which takes into account factors such as the composition of the dossier and the evaluation capacity. Over the last few months, DG Han has taken a number of initiatives with the resources at its disposal, such as a plan per centre to tackle the overload, the identification of priority categories and the generalisation of good practice. In addition, there are several actions to structurally solve the problem of evaluation capacity. These include the recruitment of social workers, the examination of the reimbursement of control doctors and the adaptation of the application procedure. The excellent programme is an opportunity to transform DG Han into a service that really makes a difference for the people. At least that's something I believe in and where I'm working.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. It's sad sometimes. We regularly receive messages from people who have to call repeatedly, to get their files fixed and hanged on the phone for hours and days, because there has been an administrative error in their file somewhere. The worst thing for me is the messages I get from people who can go to the control doctor, be in there for five minutes and get an evaluation where I ask myself questions. In the end, parents or individuals themselves will have to submit a new dossier in order to be re-evaluated. We must be able to prevent such things. I hear you saying you're in the middle of recruiting staff. It's five to twelve. I hope that a solution will be found very quickly, especially because it concerns the weak in our society. They should certainly come first. I've heard you're going to work on that. I will therefore not fail to ask you again about this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u15	I am again the last one, Madam Minister, to congratulate you. Congratulations on this. In mid-December 2021, for the last time, I questioned you about the evaluation and reform of the Individualised Project for Social Integration (GPMI). You indicated that the adjustments would take into account three principles: tailored guidance, targeted target groups such as young people and administrative simplification. That's contrary to what we're supposed to be in midfield. The Platform GPMI says so: "The principles behind the GPMI are wrong, so we ask Minister Lalieux to have the courage to abolish it and invest in quality guidance." If it would depend on the PVDA, it would apply to all categories, including young people. Have you consulted with the Platform GPMI? What did you discuss? What appointments have been made? Will you amend the law for the reform of the GPMI, and in what way? How will you monitor the number of sanctions and sanctions grounds? Are you working on a better approach? What is your deadline for reform? Will anything actually change in the course of 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u16	Madam Minister, on 18 April it was exactly 20 years since the living wage was introduced. This transition from the minimum standard of living to the living wage was not only symbolic, it should also be a turning point. Living wage benefits would increase and people should be better guided to a job or to social integration. Poverty is about to fall. Those last 20 years have been a great deal of effort. Unfortunately, we have to note that not all the objectives have been achieved. Poverty rates have been around 14 to 15% for some 20 years. One in three labourers is even under 25 years of age. Research by the University of Antwerp shows that 12% of the labourers have a job after two years; after four years it is still only 30%. We have often talked here about the importance of increasing the level of activity, especially in those who receive a living wage. There is therefore a great potential to increase the number of people employed and to ensure social integration for those unable to work. I have already asked questions about the GPMI, the path the OMCWs are planning in consultation with the wage-earners to help them integrate into working life or into society. The IMPI must become or remain a tailor-made instrument of guidance. It should also be accessible and clear to all interested parties. The fact that there were still many improvement points in the GPMI has certainly had an impact on living wages as an instrument against poverty. The report of twenty years of living wage therefore contains many red figures, but also at least as many opportunities to improve the living wage and the GPMI. Where are you on the preparations for the reform of the GPMI? It is not always used as an instrument to guide people to a job or social integration, unfortunately it is sometimes also used as an instrument to exclude people. Do you include other actors than the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network or the PPS Social Integration? What reforms will you undertake to improve the GPMI? What time frame do you foresee? Do you foresee any other adjustments to living wages, such as raising them to at least the poverty line as agreed in the government agreement, or increasing them in function of the number of children? Are you going to have this examined? In what way do you want to make these adjustments? When will you come to this committee with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u17	We have regular discussions on the GPMI with all actors, with the OCMWs, with the beneficiaries themselves, through the experience experts, with the Belgian Network Poverty Reduction and with the platform. It is true that the current system is not working optimally. However, the abolition of the GPMI is not a good solution. It would be too easy to respond to the criticisms that ignore the objective of the IPMI. I continue to defend this objective, along with many actors and beneficiaries who do have good experiences with the GPMI. I invite you, for example, to see what Seraing's OCMW is doing. I recently visited this OCMW, precisely to discuss this subject, on the advice of the Belgian anti-poverty network. The GPMI is an individual guidance pathway that allows people to further develop their skills, follow training and improve their social skills. The GPMI is a very good instrument if its original philosophy is respected. It must be a bilateral agreement between client and social workers in accordance with the client's wishes. That is exactly why I want to work with civil society. I don't think the living wage should be a terminal. Guidance via a GPMI is therefore essential to find a way out of that last social safety net. Working groups have been set up so that any party involved in the GPMI and thus civil society can make suggestions on reform. My intention is indeed to come forward with proposals before the end of the year. It takes more courage to thoroughly reform a system than simply abolish it without the slightest nuance. Mrs Lanjri, as you know, the living wage of this legislature is being raised by an historic 10.75%. Together with the indexation and the welfare envelope, the living wage is steadily moving towards the European poverty line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u18	Madam Secretary, you say that you are busy with this, but you do not want to say much or can tell us about the details. You were supposed to come forward with proposals before the end of the year. I certainly hope we get your pension file sooner. After all, we are in full expectation of that. However, I am asking questions about the content. If it is so difficult to impose sanctions through the OCMW and to streamline and monitor them, then I wonder why you are not simply abolishing the scheme. I understand that you support a certain ideology, but all studies, including the Tempera study, have already shown that the impact of these sanctions is very limited. So I repeat my disappointment. Two studies have been carried out on the GPMI, by Tempera and by the poverty groups. I fully agree that there is a need for a debate on this, but for one reason or another you are on the brakes, otherwise we could have held a hearing on the GPMI in committee for a long time. I still propose to do so, so that we know what the problems are on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u19	As far as the GPMI is concerned, I note that the evaluations were completed last year. Now you say that you are working with the working groups to draw the necessary conclusions and proposals. In itself that is good, it is just a pity that it can't go any faster. I hope, however, that we will soon have concrete proposals which we will soon be able to introduce. After all, it is necessary to reform the GPMI. The evaluations show that it is not always used for what it serves. It has a good intention, it is a good instrument, but if one uses it wrongly one gets problems, is victims of it, it is seen as an instrument of exclusion. Some social assistants say they want to get rid of it because it means too much work. That's too bad. One sometimes sees it as a balast, while in itself it can mean a lot. The sooner we can reform the GPMI in those areas where the reports clearly state that something is going wrong, the better. Then it'll make the people on the ground better. Finally, as far as living wages are concerned, I also said that, as agreed in the government agreement, we must increase benefits to the poverty line. I also have an additional question. That European poverty line is already good, but it is also a minimum. How does this work in function of the number of children? Now I think it's calculated for a head of the family on an average of a couple with two children. If you have more than two children, will there be an adjustment in function of the number of children? I don't know how you see this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, you may have taken note of a judgment of the Constitutional Court. According to the principle of the unit of career, more than 45 career years must never be taken into account for the calculation of the pension. The definition for employees removes the least advantageous years, but in the context of a mixed career, an abstract hierarchy is always assumed that automatically deducts career years as self-employed, whether or not they are the least favourable career years. Madam Secretary, when and how will you comply with that judgment? Is the determination of up to 45 career years still sustainable in the pension calculation, as the retirement age is constantly being increased and so more and more people work for more than 45 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u21	Mrs. Samyn, thank you for coming back to this important file. As for your first question, the judgment is being examined by the administration. Given the growing complexity of mixed careers, I will propose a global solution together with Minister Clarinval. It is no longer justified that career years as civil servants are always considered more advantageous than career years as employees and/or self-employed. In the meantime, this dossier will in any event be adapted to the judgment. As far as your second question is concerned, the 45-year rule and the principle of unity of career have already been reformed in the past. For pensions starting from 2015, the principle of the unity of career has been adapted. It is no longer counted in calendar years but in full-time daily equivalents. A full career no longer has a maximum of 45 years, but 14,040 full-time daily equivalents. Moreover, the days above that limit always count for the calculation of the pension. Thus, the government rewards longer working with more retirement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand that the judgment is still under consideration and that you will discuss it with your colleague. I'm looking forward to that. Perhaps that will be in your global retirement plan. Of course, there can be no different treatment for pensions. I therefore hope that there will be a uniform approach to pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u23	Mrs Fonck, I see you've joined us. I suggest that you sit down before giving yourself the floor to ask your two questions one after the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u24	Madam Secretary, I will ask my two combined questions at once. Makes it easier. The first concerns the current poverty policy and the people who have already fallen into poverty. I hope for a structural strengthening of poverty policy. The second is about the people who are not currently listed in the poverty figures but who feel the rising prices extremely hard and fear for their future. As you know, the outlook is bleak, and that is still positive. The outlook is bleak due to the rapid succession of the corona crisis, the floods, the recent energy invoicing crisis and the new refugee crisis. At the same time, structural povertymakers have not been tackled in the last 30 years. The private housing market is a problem in each region, as is the shortage of social housing. Many homes are poorly insulated and therefore expensive to heat. At the bottom of the labour market are poorly paid and precarious jobs. Certainly there people feel the consequences of the wage freeze. In short, Belgian poverty policy can no longer tolerate business as usual. I am increasingly questioning the current crisis management of this government. You will have noticed, there is rarely more than three months ahead. I come to my question about a strengthened poverty policy. What new structural measures, not temporary measures, will you take to avert a poverty crisis? Will this government once again and definitively increase the federal wage allowance for the OCMWs? Will there soon be an interfederal inter-ministerial conference of the poverty ministers to tackle the poverty crisis together with a comprehensive plan? Is the government still increasing social benefits over the poverty line in this legislature? Then I come to my second question. According to the latest Eurobarometer, four out of ten Belgians are awake from rising prices. In addition, 36% of those questioned indicated that they usually had difficulty paying their bills at the end of the month in the last year. This is slightly more than the European average, which is 33%. The survey was conducted in January and February. Meanwhile, inflation in our country continued to rise to 8.23% in March 2022. Recently, there has also been increasing warning of the risk of a recession. The current economic situation can lead to a deepening of existing poverty. High prices can also put many people with lower wages in a downward spiral of debt and poverty. I shall confine myself here to the most important questions. This is not so much about poverty as about the impoverishment of the middle class and how to stop that impoverishment. I'm genuinely interested in your answer. Will the existing instruments be sufficient to deal fully with the effects of a price crisis and a possible recession? What are you going to do to prevent low-income people from falling into a debt spiral? What are you going to do with this government so that poverty policy can be given sufficient strength? In other words, how are you going to prevent people who have been able to survive so far from going into poverty for a long time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u25	Mr Colebunders, I do not need to remind you that this government has already decided in 2020 to increase social minima and pensions. This historical increase is anchored until 2024. As you know, an important decision has also been taken on the minimum wage, which will rise to 2026. Never before has a government planned such an increase. Maintaining indexation is also an essential measure, which will generate an additional €120 net per month for average incomes between 2020 and 2022. It is a measure that I will continue to defend. That is no reason for us to remain in the trap, quite the contrary. We have therefore taken unprecedented measures, such as the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity, and the strengthening of the energy fund, for which EUR 57 million has been released. Meanwhile, we are also working on a federal poverty plan involving all members of the government. That plan will have to meet different requirements. For example, a number of crisis measures will be extended if necessary. We will also take into account the needs of the working poor, including by maintaining derived rights in the event of a resumption of work. The plan will also provide for actions to address debt issues, in cooperation with the Minister for Economic Affairs. An ultimate goal is that poverty will no longer exist in our country in the medium term. To this end, we are working closely with the sector. I want the country to provide a concrete and quick answer to the problem. An inter-ministerial conference will be held this year. The funds for this have already been released today, in particular EUR 2.6 billion for the refinancing of health care and EUR 2.1 billion for the increase in minimum pensions, the IGA, the living wage and the IVT. We must protect social security and continue to invest in it. Social security is and remains an important safety net, as the crisis has shown once again. Without our social security, 44% of Belgians would live in poverty. She is our structural guarantee for the well-being of as many people as possible. In addition, the plan will provide a concrete response to the challenges we have identified with our partners. As I told you, I will make sure that the entire government is committed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u26	Madam Secretary, you have a lot of plans, something I can only be happy about. However, it remains a problem to actually implement these plans. You know the numbers better than I do, the OCMWs are flooded. Last week I got the figures from the city of Genk. The OCMW received 37 % more applications for a living wage. So we're not going in the right direction. It is a good thing that there is automatic indexation and I hope that it is not under discussion within this government, but it is not enough. You speak of an increase of 120 euros per month. It's nice that these people have 120 euros a month more, but if they get an invoice of 3,000 to 4,000 euros extra by the end of the year, I don't know if we're going in the right direction. Structurally, something doesn't stick together well. I am hopeful about the inter-ministerial conference that will take place. After all, the OCMWs are no longer able to do it. As I said a few weeks ago, they don't know where to find social assistants, because they're not there. That doesn't make any sense either. The debate is not only taking place here, but also in the regions. Last year I made a speech in this committee on the schools for poverty experts that were closed down. These are people who can be employed in the OCMWs. At regional level, it is simply decided that this is no longer necessary. That's what we're in trouble with right now. That's just one of the factors. If the Regions don't communicate with each other, I don't know. You may have a lot of plans, but we're not getting there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u27	Mr Colebunders, I invite you to pay a little more attention to your speaking time. We don't have a chronometer today. It is therefore difficult to keep track of the time that has elapsed. But try to be a little bit shorter, so that everyone can ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u28	Madam Minister, since 27 March 2019 employees can register on their own initiative for the free supplementary pension for employees (VAPW). I read in De Tijd of 24 March 2022 that according to statistics of the pension database Sigedis there were 844 members on 1 January 2021, of which 126 were only connected to a VAPW, while the others combined it with one or more other pension plans. Those are the figures available, but you may have more recent figures. Compared to the more than 3 million employees in a group insurance system, the VAPW pension savings formula seems, unfortunately, to have little success. The average reserve acquired is also very low. How do you explain the modest interest of employees in the free supplementary pension? Will you take measures to remedy this and make the system more attractive? If so, which one? If no, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u29	Mr Van der Donkt, like you, I have taken note of the figures of the relatively supplementary pension for employees. Only 844 employees have signed such a contract. That's not much. Of these 126 were not yet affiliated to another pension plan through their employer or sector. I'm not surprised at these numbers. It has long been known that individual forms of supplementary pensions are unable to reach large groups of workers. These benefits come from better informed and more wealthy citizens, who often already have access to other forms of supplementary pensions. The most vulnerable cannot be reached through this system. This is confirmed once again. As I said earlier in this committee, I am convinced that the generalisation of the second pillar can only be achieved through collective supplementary pension schemes. This concerns systems introduced in enterprises and sectors resulting from consultation between the social partners. The government agreement also recognises the central role of the social partners within the second pillar. In consultation with the social partners, it will be examined how we can achieve a minimum pension contribution of 3% of all employees as soon as possible. This exercise is part of the pension reform discussed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u30	Madam Minister, you will focus on this supplementary pension pillar, and you will find an ally in us, in the interests of the workers. Have I understood from your reply that, given the modest success of the VAPW, you will not take any motivating measures or that you will put that out once you have a generalisation of the general pension pillar?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u31	That's gonna be a long discussion. Such a VAPW is, of course, an insurance principle. We must convince people that this is of personal interest to them. I raised the problem because I read about it in the paper. I hope that even the socially weaker in our society, even for a limited amount, will be able to participate in that insurance. If there is a generalization to 3 %, minimum, that would be a good result. You know that we support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u32	Madam President, this morning I was visiting the pension administration for her presentation on contact with the citizen, the mypension.be platform, the explanations of back office, the new applications that we know very little about. They proposed to invite you to the Tower of Pensions in order to explain to you with their teams all these developments and how the contacts with the citizens are going. The DG will contact you. I think it's worth it. I learned a lot this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u33	Thank you for the tip.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u34	We now come to the questions about MyPension. The Minister has offered to go on a work visit to the Pension Service. We can therefore ask further questions there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u35	Madam President, I think it would be a very good idea to visit the Pension Service to see how things are going there and to ask further questions. In any case, not all pensioners have access to the Internet or have sufficient digital knowledge to be able to contact the Pension Service with their questions or complaints. In its latest annual report, the Pension Service has clearly advocated the creation of a point of contact in city halls, social housing, OCMWs, libraries and digihubs of bpost, where citizens receive digital support. The Network of Belgian Ombudsmen made the same suggestion in a resolution. Madam Minister, do you recognise that there is a digital divide and that it poses problems mainly for pensioners? Will you take the Ombudsman's suggestion to heart and take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u36	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I attach great importance to accessible public services; hence my motto digital by default, not digital only. Of course, I recognize that there is a digital divide. Digitisation does indeed create obstacles for older people, and certainly socially vulnerable people, among others. But I will not leave them to their fate. I am working on clear tools, with particular attention to the accessibility of information. This is also reflected in my policy statement for 2022. I have included the issue, specifically in relation to pensions, in the governance agreement for 2022-2024 with the Federal Pension Service. In addition, cooperation with specific partners is being developed. In this way, citizens can eventually be assisted in the use of digital applications in the places where they already come from today. Pension questions can also be answered in the first line. This assistance to citizens is accelerated by the introduction of the so-called app economy. Through professional access to mypension.be, the social worker or the social assistant at the civil society organisation can assist citizens in their digital interaction with social security. For more details, I would like to draw your attention to my answer to Mrs Vanrobaeys on professional access to mypension.be, at the committee meeting of 19 January 2022. In addition, the Federal Pension Service is part of the Connectoo project. As a project partner, the FPD makes its expertise in mypension.be available for the development of the training. A test team of information officers and experience experts seconded to the FPD will also follow the training. The aim of the Connectoo project is to raise awareness and train four thousand civil servants to help citizens bridge the digital divide. It remains essential to invest in telephony, correspondence and reception. Synergies between the different channels should be further promoted. I will see to it that those who are not digitally connected are still reached through other channels. With regard to access by persons with disabilities, the SFP is implementing the European recommendations for the development of mypension. Unfortunately, the administration has not yet obtained the AnySurfer label for its site, following some technical restrictions. Nevertheless, every new development is made taking into account accessibility standards so that mypension.be is accessible to as many people as possible. In addition, within the framework of the Federal Disability Plan, the SFP has made a commitment to ensure that the European Accessibility Directive is transposed in consultation with organisations representing persons with disabilities. I assure you, Mrs Samyn, Mr Van der Donckt and Mrs Thémont, that I am very attentive to the reduction of the digital divide of the social insured and to the accessibility of public services. As I told you earlier, if you go there, you will see the relationship between the site, the phone – they still have hundreds of thousands of calls a year – and the reception points. It's really a whole channel and a whole trajectory that's developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u38	The digital divide is in fact a digital ravine in a world that is increasingly digitalizing. Not everyone has digital tools. It's often about underprivileged people. Chances of poverty are reinforced in the digital age. The digital divide threatens to isolate them in our society. The government must be involved, especially with the digitally weaker. It is therefore good to know that you are indeed and that you will work towards a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u39	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that in any case, those with visual, hearing or cognitive disabilities are virtually excluded from digital accessibility. This is part of an equal approach, since everyone must be guaranteed access to information and services online. I understand, of course, what you are saying, namely that the Handicap plan will ensure that this European directive is transcribed. I do not doubt, of course, that you are paying attention to reducing the digital divide for everyone without exception. I also thank you for your visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You obviously share our concern; I appreciate that you seem to have a plan of action. I will certainly pass on your answer to my 90-year-old father, because if I ask him if he has received an e-mail, he is not with me. It's a good thing you're doing that. We will be struggling with the gap, because the people who are now retired are still coming from the "stone age" when the dial was still on the phone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u41	Mr Colebunders' question is referred to Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u42	Minister, in 2021 the cost of pensions was EUR 52.2 billion. In the coming years, demographic changes will considerably increase the population. According to the report of the Study Committee on Ageing of July 2021, the share of GDP relative to the cost of pensions will increase from 10.9% in 2020 to 13.9% in 2040. In view of these elements, pension reform initiated under the previous legislature is therefore indispensable. The reform is under way. It also aims to ensure the financial sustainability of our pension plan. Recently, you said in the press that your reform would be budget neutral. While the reform is under way, it is not yet happening. However, the recovery plan submitted by Belgium to the European Commission indicated that pension reform would be validated in the fourth quarter of 2021. However, it would appear that the Commission is now making the allocation of the resources provided for in the recovery plan conditional on the fulfilment of the commitments made in the recovery plan. Could you take stock of pension reform? What are the difficulties encountered at this stage? Has an evaluation been conducted by the Federal Office of the Plan to verify the long-term budgetary impacts of the reform? If so, what does it show? If not, why has the Federal Planning Office not been asked to do so? What about the proposals put forward by my political group to introduce part-time pensions and to provide additional pensions for workers beyond the early retirement age? What is your view on real harmonisation of pension rights, regardless of the status of workers? Could you clarify the risk of the absence of pension reform as soon as possible on the granting of the European resources provided for in the recovery plan? When can your reform be adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u43	Madam Secretary, I choked on my coffee last weekend when I read the interview in Het Laatste Nieuws with PS president Paul Magnette. It was an extensive interview in the framework of 1 May. When he talked about pension reform, he said "poor Karine has been waiting for six months, but I don't blame Alexander." He showed understanding because of the corona crisis and the war in Ukraine. However, he also said "all the calculations and tables are ready," "the reform is budget-neutral" and "we're tackling gender inequality and I know Alexander is sensitive to that, because he wrote the book "The Age of Women." In the same period, Secretary of State Dermine in De Tijd answered the question about the pension reform that Minister Lalieux was supposedly finished in September. Time has been lost with all these crises, but it will soon be on the government table. Madam Minister, I have been asking you questions since September and you have always said that there is still a need to study and calculate and that there is still a need for consultation. I am sure you will contradict both your President and Secretary of State Dermine. If your pension reform had already been completed in September, what was the point of all the meetings you had with the parties of the majority, the social partners, civil society organisations and academics from almost all universities? Was that just pro forma? Following these negotiations and discussions, have you made any adjustments to your September proposal? Did you have your pension reform plan calculated, as your chairman puts it, and if so, by whom? When will your plan for pension reform end up on the government table so that we can debate it in this House?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I will indeed disappoint you. It is true, as you have read in the proposals, that the proposal that is being negotiated today within the government represents a change from the previous legislature. We want positive measures, both for workers and for equality between men and women, while ensuring budgetary sustainability, and in consultation and consultation with the social partners. The talks within the government are ongoing. In the coming weeks, they should result in a proposal that takes into account the ideas of all parties but above all the social sustainability of the system, the solidarity of the people working and the need to restore their confidence in pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will understand that, I am not going to tell you where the negotiations with all the vice-firsts are, but as my party president in the press has said this time, there has been a great deal of urgency for the Prime Minister, who is my essential partner in this reform for the time being. He has indeed devoted a great deal of attention to the European concern of the war in Ukraine. This delayed negotiations. Know that we are negotiating and moving forward! I'm not going to reveal anything, Mr. Bombled. You know if we talk about it now, it's fucked up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you. Even if I have not received all the answers, it is my right to ask questions. Continuing the reform of pensions initiated under the previous legislature is essential. I think we'll all agree. This is in line with the commitments made in the government agreement. The 2.6 million pensioners must be guaranteed long-term payment of their pensions. We have increased pensions and we want to continue to do so. This requires, in accordance with the government agreement and the recovery plan communicated by Belgium to the European Commission, a reform aimed at ensuring the financial sustainability of our pension system through the extension of professional careers and the increase in the employment rate of older workers. The proposed reform will require an evaluation by the Federal Planning Office to verify its long-term budgetary impacts. I do not hide from you that my group wants the reform to incorporate the proposals to introduce part-time pension and to provide a supplementary pension for any working day beyond the age of early retirement. These proposals can encourage the continuation of professional careers. Finally, we want a real harmonisation of pension rights with the objective of eventually offering identical pension rights regardless of the status of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u46	Madam President, we will not have a small debate here, but Mr Bombled's reply was very interesting and interesting. I hope you'll listen to that. Madam Minister, in the light of your reply, your chairman, Mr Magnette, has been a little hasty with his statement in Latest News, in which he stated that everything had already been calculated. Apparently, that is not the case. It is good that you show the necessary discretion. This is, of course, somewhat annoying for the opposition, because we do not know in which direction you want to evolve. However, it is good that you maintain discretion. I hope that you will soon be able to come up with a comprehensive pension reform, taking into account all the besognes that exist. There are also some buttons to cut. In this context, I would like to invite you to come and talk to the N-VA in all discretion. After all, we also have a number of good ideas for controlling the cost of ageing and achieving what is in your government agreement, namely the harmonisation of the various pension systems with respect for the acquired rights and, of course, with respect for the socially weaker, equality between men and women and so on. We are on the same line in terms of objective, but the road to it seems to be somewhat different.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u47	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, the extension of the subsidies granted to CPAS during the health crisis and requested by the three federations concerns the extension of the period of use and not the provision of new means. However, in view of the pandemic's lull, this extension does not seem appropriate. On the other hand, I am convinced of the need to sustain a psychological aid system through CPAS. Given the return of the land to this subside, it became quite clear to me that the federal government could act more permanently and structurally in this area. That is why, through the plan to combat poverty and the inequalities that I will shortly present to the government, it is planned to make this kind of intervention structural by means of a new royal decree on the subsidy of social activation. PAS (?) As a result, psychological assistance will be extended and additional resources will complement the annual budgets. With respect to your question about increasing integration income, the government's agreement foresees a significant increase in RIS of 10.75%. Since the beginning of the legislature, two increases have already taken place. Several increases have already taken place in recent months following the welfare envelope, which is guaranteed - a second will be guaranteed in 2023 - and exceedances of the pivotal index. The government is taking considerable action to bring the RIS closer to the poverty line. This would mean an increase at the end of the legislature from 22 to 25 per cent, which is obviously quite remarkable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u48	Madam Minister, you cannot ignore this: all the CPAS federations but also the CPAS presidents from all regions recall how the socio-economic effects of the health crisis continue to be felt for several categories of the population, including the self-employed. Aid therefore remains absolutely essential with sufficient flexibility to be able to take into account the pluralistic realities of precarious situations. As far as mental health is concerned, you are telling me that it will be presented shortly. Is there a specific timetable in this area already? Can we expect that there will be no "rupture" so that there will be continuity in this part? This represents a challenge to mental health that remains particularly important. It should be remembered, however, that those who have difficulties in this area do not always have the opportunity - at least one might say - to benefit from the intervention of a psychologist contracted by normal health care, since the number of psychologists contracted is very low and the waiting times are extremely long. Finally, as far as RIS is concerned, you did not reply to the Plan Bureau's projections. Is there a specific and complementary response to this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u49	There will be no break in relation to psychological help.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u50	Minister, many presidents of CPAS are sounding the alarm, and more particularly on the increase in applications for aid related to energy bills. Admittedly, the federal government has provided assistance, but as we can see on the ground, it is not enough to stem the serious risk of energy insecurity. There is a situation where a number of workers stop working because their incomes are affected by the explosion of energy costs. I am thinking of those who have small and medium wages and who are obliged to mobilize for professional reasons or have important energy bills. Already in 2019, the King Baudouin Foundation had highlighted the fact that one in five Belgian households knew this energy poverty. The current price boom has only worsened the situation. Recently in the press, the president of the Wallonia CPAS Federation said: "There are middle class people who tell us: Be careful, we do not have this procession of aid that is granted to the most disadvantaged. They are people who work with a salary sometimes quite substantial." This shows that work no longer protects itself from insecurity, even sometimes for people who work full-time, he says. I think he's right. Minister, what is the status of the situation you have as a competent minister? Do your services see a macro increase in aid applications and confirm the increase in aid applications for energy bills in CPAS? Can we have the evolution of the use of the Oil Fund, the Energy Fund and the Gas-Electricity Fund between 2019 and today (last four months of 2022)? Would it not be necessary to extend the aid criteria for these different Funds to help the middle class, which sometimes does not fall within the current criteria but which is clearly experiencing major difficulties in closing the end of the month. Unfortunately, the crisis shows that it will last, which is an additional argument to benefit from this type of aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u51	Madam Minister, the energy bill continues to worry people, especially now that many have received their reckoning. The government has already taken a number of measures, such as the VAT reduction to 6% and the extension and extension of the social tariff. However, as Mrs Fonck says, it is often people from the lower middle class who have a job, but who are just not eligible for the social rate and are therefore in trouble. The OMCWs can provide material support to families who have difficulty paying their invoices through the Gas and Electricity Fund. We know that you have already made efforts: by 2020 you increased the fund's budget by EUR 12 million. Figures that I requested earlier this year showed that many local authorities already doubled or tripled the budget "Article 6" remuneration for unpaid invoices compared to the year before. This shows how urgent the situation was at the time, although there was no energy crisis at the time. Thanks to the increase in energy prices at the end of last year, you released an additional EUR 16 million for 2022, bringing the total budget to EUR 78 million. Today I get varying signals: some OCMWs indicate that they are not getting more applications at the moment, others indicate that they are getting a lot of applications. Are you getting any signals from the OMCWs that the amount allocated would not be sufficient? Is the POD following evolution? If we wait for the annual report of the OCMWs to be published, we will have the figures too late. Is there any additional communication from the federal government about this fund? Everyone can rely on this fund, but we do not see that everyone knows that. The threshold to go to the OCMW is high. Such an additional communication could help people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, energy prices have indeed risen dramatically. However, the government has not been idle. Last year, we took a whole series of measures for the benefit of consumers in the autumn. We have also made additional budget available so that the OCMWs can intervene quickly. For example, 17 million went to the fuel oil fund and 63 million to the Gas and Electricity Fund. Soon enough in the year, some CPAS were concerned that the means at their disposal would not be sufficient to meet the increased demands. The SPP immediately set up a monthly monitoring with the CPAS to objectify these statements. Thus, we see that the situation is more nuanced. Some CPAS have seen applications double compared to the previous year. Others observe a constant or even a decrease. But the latter expect an increase when regularisation bills are distributed within their communes. The SPP continues the monthly monitoring until June 2022. The monitoring will then be quarterly and structurally anchored. The SPP has communicated to each CPAS the amount available for 2022 in the Gas-Electricity Fund. This communication was doubled to the CPAS federations, which relayed the information directly to the CPAS energy references. For more details, I will give you the tables, particularly requested by Mrs Fonck. By 2021, $3.4 million out of $65 million had not been used. But we need to know that these millions are returning to the Fund. This does not go back to the budget. All that is not used in the Gas-Electricity Fund is returned to the Fund and is redistributed according to the usual distribution key. This does not go back to the state budget. The figures I will give you concern the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, but not yet the first months of the year 2022. It's a lot more complicated. You will also have information about the Oil Fund. It's also well used. It's the same system. Madam President, I will send these documents to the secretariat by email. You will also note that the amounts mentioned are not included in these figures. The tables I'm going to give you do not include the 73 million I got in the last budget conclave for the Gas-Electricity Fund, nor the 17 million for the Oil Fund. All this money corresponds to a doubling of the means in both funds. Talking about 82 million in 2022 is significant. As regards the possible extension of the criteria for access to the various funds, the Gas-Electricity Fund is open to anyone in situations of over-indebtedness. It's a rule. Debt must be interpreted broadly, i.e. the claimant may be in debt and the risk is real. That means, Mrs. Fonck, that you must not be overindebted to address the Fund. If you are overindebted, you can turn to it. But today, given the increase in gas and electricity bills and the increase in regularization bills, it is checked whether to pay these bills based on your income is likely to overburden you and whether the risk is real. If people in the middle class are suddenly confronted with high gas and electricity bills and are no longer able to pay them, i.e. they are at risk of debt, they are part of the target group of the Gas and Electricity Fund and they can also benefit from an intervention. It is the CPAS that will check whether these conditions are met during a social survey. Therefore, the middle class is already eligible for the Gas-Electricity Fund. Raising consumer awareness through their supplier invoices could be a solution. It is important to know that there are indeed information problems for this public. Some CPAS have made prospectuses to explain to them that they have resources, and have been on the markets, putting these prospectuses in the municipalities, etc. Of course, you have to go to people to inform them. As for the Oil Fund, before looking at an enlargement, it is essential to try to limit the non-use of this Fund. Indeed, it is not automated. It is therefore not guaranteed that the target audience who may need it will benefit from it today. We are working on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers. No information is yet available on the first four months of 2022. But the reality on the ground suggests that there will be an increase in the number of people to be helped. Energy insecurity will certainly increase. It's obvious. Irrespective of this, additional measures will have to be taken by different governments. In fact, when it comes to energy costs, we often talk about the federal, but federated entities should also be manoeuvring, in any case as far as taxes are concerned. Having said that, Madam Minister, I note that there is a small gap. You say that everyone can get help, if there is a risk of over-indebtedness. But the way in which this risk is interpreted by the municipalities and, in particular, the CPAS, is not the same everywhere. In doing so, the situation of middle class people, workers who are not entitled, on the basis of the rules, to ex officio assistance, is rather complicated in a number of CPAS. Should you not do a job in this area, if the mind is good to allow faster help, once the need is demonstrated, without waiting for the situation to become catastrophic? Should you not send a message to CPAS in favour of an interpretation that is broad enough to avoid double standards and that people in need cannot have access to this aid, simply because they are considered to be in the middle class, working, having income? A number of questions arise. I hear what you're saying. Good! But, in my opinion, there is a mismatch between what you say and the application on the ground. At this level, things can move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Of course, I think it is very good that monitoring is carried out and that this is done in the short term with figures available per trimester. I think that will lead to more insight. However, I am a little concerned when I see that some OCMW's have a lot of applications coming in and others have little. What's that about? Is it the communication of the OCMW? In the LAC, the Local Advisory Committee, we sit with the energy suppliers when invoices are not paid. In this way, we see that people will go to the OCMW, when it is actually too late. We should be able to intervene sooner, as soon as we see people getting into trouble. There may be a need to reflect on how local OMCWs can be encouraged to consider how to communicate about this fund. I believe that there is a crucial link.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u55	Madam Minister, earlier in this committee, you stated that the Social Integration PPS was going to coordinate the Belgian Action Plan in consultation with the Länder, civil society organisations and organisations that are committed to this issue. The plan had to be submitted to the European Commission by 22 March. On 25 January, you launched ten projects in this context. You have allocated a budget of EUR 1.2 million for this purpose. Madam Secretary, has this plan been drawn up and submitted? If not, why not? When can we expect this? Will you make this plan public? What actions will you take to combat child poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u56	Mrs Samyn, Belgium will present its national action plan to the European Commission this week. This plan was drawn up in cooperation with all competent authorities. Numerous Belgian administrations were involved, under the coordination of the POD MI. I would like to thank everyone for this. The plan will soon be available on the website of the POD MI. This is certainly not an end point, but the start of the process that will take until 2030. In two years' time, an initial evaluation will follow. This plan identifies the measures taken by the Communities, the Regions and the federal government to ensure children's access to essential services in our country. Given the fragmentation of the powers of children's rights in Belgium, this is a unique opportunity to identify shortcomings, good practices and possible future measures. I would also like to stress that every policy level supports this action plan. The Länder are responsible for most of the issues specifically covered by the Children's Guarantee: education, childcare, school meals, housing, health care, etc. Nevertheless, I have also launched pilot projects against child poverty in ten OMCWs. These projects, with a budget of EUR 1.2 million, are directly linked to the objective of the Child Guarantee. European and Belgian ambition will also be included in the federal plan against poverty and inequality. However, we must not forget that child poverty is primarily a result of parental poverty. That is why structural measures, such as raising social minima or specific projects for families and especially single-parent families, such as that of Myriam, are crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u57	Madam Minister, it is good that the draft will be presented this week, although it is a little too late. I forgive you. You say the plan will be available soon. Perhaps you could send it proactively to our committee, because I am certainly interested in that. I think that's a good idea. We must not forget the importance of the action plan. Ensuring equal access to certain basic services for all children is very close to our party. Especially in the case of child poverty, I am counting on your further commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u58	Minister, for the past ten years, the CPAS of the city of Liège has seen its beneficiaries increase by 57%: they were 7,322 in 2010 and 11,486 in 2020. In recent years, the trend is also on the rise, with an increase of 100 people in 2021 and 500 in 2020. The increase in the number of RIS beneficiaries aged between 18 and 25 is also worrying, as it doubled in Liège in 10 years, from 860 to 1,765. However, Madam Minister, this figure certainly does not reflect the extent of precariousness in this age group. Indeed, a study by the Youth Law Department of Namur states that young people use social rights only if they have received the support of an adult who can legitimize the steps and make them effective. Other young people, who are unaware of the aid in force, see their vulnerability increased. Minister, you have repeatedly stated your willingness to fight against non-use of social rights. Have you ever considered the non-use of the young public? Do you have figures in this area? Could you tell me whether specific actions to improve the information of this public are advised by the actors in the field? Have any good practices been observed in this context during your numerous field visits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u59	Madam Member, we have a very developed social security system, which must be defended and guaranteed. Young people who face difficulties may apply for various services, including CPAS for one-time or regular assistance such as RIS, PIIS support, housing bill, or complementary health, psychological and food problems, leisure or school issues. As the figures indicate, more and more people are using CPAS, social and other grocery stores. Although this is a very worrying situation, I would nevertheless like to encourage all young people who have difficulty entering a CPAS by reminding them that it is not a horizon, but a springboard in a pivotal period of their lives. Social workers, young people's cells or students of CPAS are doing a remarkable job. As you know, I want to support young people in poverty as much as possible, and I do so through a number of measures. Some are punctual. You know them: the Zoom 18-25 during the crisis, the removal of the exemption of the RIS student scholarship or not, the lowering of the age for the allowance of disabled people, ten projects to combat child poverty, food subsidies and projects to combat menstrual precariousness. Nevertheless, despite the existence of many services and aids, we know that they are not enough and that, because of lack of knowledge, mistrust of these institutions, lack of access, many do not benefit from what they are entitled to. I recently visited the ASBL Macadam which accompanies the young people in wandering and the non-recourse is flagrant. Some take six months after entering the ASBL to dare take the necessary steps after months, years of total disaffiliation. On the ground, the major issues of rights automation, individualisation of rights, administrative simplification in Austria are still going on and we are working on them to the extent that is possible today. Among the priority projects, there is the study of non-recourse. It's a big issue to measure the effectiveness of our system. We are lacking data today. This is why we are working on the TAKE project, not returning to RIS on the basis of a sample, and the results are expected by September 2022. A study on non-recourse will also be launched this year on behalf of the Social Integration PPS with expected results in 2023. On this basis, recommendations will be made, particularly with regard to CPAS. This will also be a focus of the fourth federal poverty reduction plan. Specific actions will be planned for this purpose, while work will be carried out on proposals for cross-cutting actions. I can also quote from the CPAS online project or the e-inclusion subside, both of which aim to enhance access to rights and which will naturally benefit young people who are more inclined to digitalise. Finally, to listen to young people, I have received in my office the Youth Forum, AFEF, the delegates for children's rights, and I will continue all these meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u60	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I know you've done a lot before. You mentioned the Zoom 18/25 but also other projects that you have set up in the context of the fight against poverty but also the precariousness of young people. We really need to stress that. I hear, in effect, that the result of a study will take place in September 2022. I'll come back to you at that time. What is obviously important is the study on non-recourse which will be launched in 2023. I have no doubt that you will continue to receive young people and all possible associations. It is necessary to provide youth support structures from the outset of school and to act preventively by taking care of young people before they turn into poverty. We know that a whole series of things are in place and that CPAS are doing a lot. I think, however, that there is still a lack of information, as you said. Young people don't push the CPAS door right away. Pushing this door is sometimes a brake for them. We should therefore have even more communication, even if we are already doing a lot of it. I will come back to you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u61	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u62	Mr Van der Donkt, you have carefully read the annual report 2021 of the Pension Office. The annual report is an important source of information. Every year, the ombudsmen present pertinent complaints and make important recommendations. They're giving me an instrument to see where it's going to be difficult for the citizens. However, these recommendations cannot be carried out without further investigation. My administration is currently examining the Ombudsman's report on Pensions. Afterwards, a consultation is organized as usual between the Ombudsman Pensions and the Federal Pension Service. The analysis will be submitted and discussed with the Management Committee, after which it will be recoupled. The analyses are ongoing and consultations are scheduled with the Ombudsman on the explanatory memorandum of his report. So we're working on it. I will be able to give you more information on this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u63	It can't be fast enough. There were a number of pertinent recommendations and questions that live with the people. I will ask the questions again in the second half of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I have also drawn this question from the Ombudsman's report. In order to ensure that the work is carried out smoothly, I would refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u65	Mr Van der Donkt, the Act of 1 March 1977 provides that public sector pensions paid on the first working day of the month are indexed from the second month following the month in which the central index is exceeded. That scheme is correctly applied by institutions paying pensions without the intervention of the Federal Pension Service. Ethias, which pays pensions to local and provincial authorities but also to hospitals and intercommunales, is the most important institution to which this applies. For the pensions of the Federal Pension Service, that provision is not relevant, since for those pensions the first of the three monthly benefit dates is at the earliest on the seventh calendar day of the month. All pensions paid out by the Federal Pension Service are thus indexed in the month following the overrun of the central index. It is true that the Pension Office proposes that the index adjustment should be made in the first month after exceeding the central index also for pensions paid on the first working day of the month. An adaptation of the current regime therefore requires an amendment of the law. There is no proposal of adaptation before us today. Nevertheless, I think it would be useful to have the proposal of the Pension Office examined further. I will therefore write to Ethias to know her response to the proposal and to get a clear picture of all the practical aspects and financial consequences of any adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for taking this recommendation to heart. You will send a letter to Ethias. Do you think you will have an answer from Ethias in the second half of June?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u67	That depends on Ethias.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u68	Of course, but you can put some pressure on it by saying that I will ask a question on this at the end of June and that you will therefore be happy to receive an answer at the beginning of June. I'll follow up on the case. If you don't get out of it, I'll be able to put together a bill myself, and we'll be able to solve it in no time. That would be interesting, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u69	Madam Minister, the application for a living wage at the OCMW is subject to a number of strict conditions, which also makes sense. The application may be refused if it is found that the conditions are not met. During the lifetime of the living wage, this may also be suspended if it appears that the conditions for entitlement to it are no longer fulfilled. Appeals against this are provided for. It now appears to be easy to apply for a new application immediately after a suspension, after which one still gets a living wage, allegedly even with retroactive effect. After transmitting changed data, there is no direct link to the old file at the start of the new file. This may give rise to abuse, and this appears to be growing. Madam Secretary, do you know of this gap in the computer system at the OCMWs? Could you tell us, if necessary, how many of these dossiers would be on an annual basis? What measures will you take to prevent this abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u70	Mrs Samyn, I am not aware of such a problem. I would like to clarify a number of points. First of all, suspension is always a temporary phenomenon. It therefore seems logical to me that the living wage should be reallocated after a suspension. Secondly, in the event of a refusal on the basis of insufficient information, it is also logical to me that a new application can be made on the basis of the additional information. On the basis of my experience, I can tell you that the OMCWs always carry out a thorough investigation into the situation of people applying for aid, which makes possible abuses a very large exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u71	Madam Minister, in a number of cases it seems to be happening. Even during a suspension, a new application can be submitted. Apparently, there is a problem in the computer system somewhere, which does not always lead to this being noticed. The person in question would then receive a living wage retroactively, while the suspension is still ongoing. I know of a number of cases where abuse was found. I will put another written question to you on this, because we must prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u72	Madam Minister, in October I asked you about a state of affairs regarding the letter of return concerning the reference address for homeless people and homeless people. Roof and homeless persons who do not have an address for service may receive such a reference address at the address of the OCMW. In this way, it is avoided that these people would not be able to exercise a lot of social and civil rights, such as receiving a benefit or registering on the waiting list for a social home. In practice, however, it appears that there is still some uncertainty about the conditions that homeless people have to meet before they can obtain a reference address at an OCMW. Some OCMWs dispute that they are competent, do not use that scheme, make a far too narrow definition of homelessness and want the old address to be deleted first. At present, there are also four different letters in circulation which ensure that the practical application of the original law can be very different. You mentioned earlier that you, together with your colleague, the Minister for the Interior, are preparing a new letter to deal with this problem. Was the analysis of the draft letter completed by your administration? When can we expect the new letter or is it already there? What elements will you include in order to remove existing obstacles to the proper implementation of the measure of the reference address at the OMCWs? Have you contacted the Länder to update the cooperation agreement on homeless people? What agreements were made on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u73	Mrs Lanjri, as you yourself have pointed out, a reference address will allow homeless people to make use of their rights. In any case, the many letters that have been sent give cause for confusion. My administration has completed the analysis of the draft letter. The draft will soon be presented to my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. Both our administrations have worked together on this, in consultation with civil society. I am therefore confident that we will publish the new letter before the end of this year. The consultation on the cooperation agreement on the homeless has not yet started. This will be done within the framework of the plan against poverty and inequality. That is the best way to determine the government's expectations of adjusting this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic773x.u74	Madam Minister, I note that the analysis is finally complete and that you will shortly be presenting it to Minister Verlinden. You say there will be a new letter by the end of the year. Can you put the necessary urgency behind this and come forward with this new letter next summer? If that is possible, because of course you still need to consult. We should not wait too long for such a letter to be sent, because we see that a lot of homeless people are having a hard time and if they fall into the loopholes of the network again, they will have no rights anywhere. I will ask you again at the end of June about the new letter. I hope that it will finally be there and that it will finally bring the necessary clarity. I hope we do not have to wait until the end of the year. Indeed, you still need to consult with the Länder. The fact that you are putting that in together with the discussion on poverty is a good thing. I hope, however, that this will be done soon. We all asked questions earlier about tackling poverty and the role of the OMCW in it. It is certainly necessary to work on this, together with the Länder.
