ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u1	Minister, we will return to the cross-border rail link between Hamant and Weert. It has been quiet for a number of months, given the negotiations in the Netherlands on a new government. In the meantime, however, the Rutte IV government is born. Mr Mark Harbers was appointed Minister of Infrastructure and Water State and Mrs Vivianne Heijnen was appointed Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State. Of course, that's important to us. I had to observe that, contrary to the government agreement at the start of Rutte III, which explicitly mentioned the reactivation of the passenger transport link between Hamant and Weert, there is no mention of this in the new coalition agreement, which puts forward another priority. What conclusions does the Minister draw from the absence of that passage on the railway link between Hamant and Weert in the coalition agreement? Has the Minister or a representative already contacted the newly appointed infrastructure and water authorities of the Rutte IV government? If that is the case, with whom and with what result? If not, will this still happen and when? What further plan does the Minister have to implement the reactivation of the railway link between Hamont and Weert? Is there any intention on the Belgian side to make public the famous SNCB study on the realisation of the project Hamant-Weert, which we have not been able to see so far and whose decision was a negative business case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u2	I do not see either Mr Verduyckt or Mrs Buyst on the screen, but I do see Mr Raskin in the Chamber. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u3	Minister, I have a similar question. Here in this House there is considerable consensus on the reopening of the Hamont-Weert railway line. In the meantime, with our northern neighbours, there is a different feeling. The new Dutch government has not re-entered the link in its coalition agreement, as my colleague has already outlined, although it is only about a 10-mile stretch. There would also have been an update of the social cost-benefit analysis in the Netherlands recently. This would show that investment is far exceeding the return. I have a number of specific questions about this. What is your reaction to the Dutch Government's position? Will you defend the file during the next Belgian-Dutch rail consultation? When will this take place? Are you aware of the results of the Dutch cost-benefit analysis? If that is the case, could you explain it a little more? For example, which are the main stumbling blocks? Where are the differences with the cost-benefit analysis we already know of SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u4	Minister, my colleagues have already outlined the situation. I think she's sufficiently well-known. I do get conflicting signals from the Netherlands. Some say it is not because it is not nominating in the coalition agreement that it would be removed. On the contrary, a number of cross-border projects would be examined and explained further in a letter to the Court. Has that letter been transferred to the House of Representatives yet? I don't think so. So it's still looking forward to that letter. In any case, we are looking very closely at what is happening in the Netherlands. If the Netherlands does not want to make any effort in the area of infrastructure, we are threatened with this potentially very interesting connection and connection to the Belgian network. I believe that there is a great deal of profit to be made there for cross-border rail traffic, as an alternative to the many cross-border road traffic. I understand that ProRail has prepared a dossier for the new minister in which a project would have been developed that would cost EUR 55 million, which is already a lot less than the previously suggested EUR 150 million, which seemed a bit too much for the Dutch government. There would be a more realistic scenario now. The question is how the new minister and the new government will deal with this. I agree with the questions put by my colleagues. Minister, do you have any knowledge of the position of your Dutch counterpart?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u5	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Vindevoghel in this topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u6	Mr President, I would like to support my colleagues from the Kempen. I would like to make a comment first. Yesterday, a five-year-old boy died in the station of Antwerp. That has taken a lot of us all. We're thinking of the family and the employees on the railroad. They're gonna have a hell of a hard time doing this. Then I come to my question about the train connection Hamont-Weert. A lot is said and written about the modal shift. For us, this is a very important line. It is more than a local boom train, this line connects people from Dutch Limburg with people from Belgian Limburg and Antwerp. Who could be against that? I don't think anyone. Moreover, there are only three rail links between the Netherlands and Belgium, which is very little. That makes that money should not be a discussion point. That connection is socially important. However, we are now dealing with the situation in the Netherlands. The old railway bridge, which has just been renovated, is being demolished in the Netherlands. I do not know if you know for whom it will be broken down, but that is what is happening for Mr Jeff Bezos, who has to pass there with his half a billion-dollar yacht. Mr Minister, perhaps it is worth hearing from your Dutch colleague why this bridge should be taken away in order to pass the hunt of half a billion of our best friend, the boss of Amazon, Mr Bezos. Will you sit with the Dutch government to do something about that and to build that line?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u7	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u8	Mr President, a child died yesterday in Antwerp-Central. That's very tragic. I have paid my condolences to the family and to the staff of SNCB and Infrabel, who are always affected by such a tragic event. The court is now conducting an investigation, which we naturally respect. Thank you, Mrs Vindevoghel, for mentioning that. I've established with you that our northern neighbors once again have a full government, which is a good thing for our relationships. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, Mrs Vivianne Heijnen, will be responsible for the railway. Of course, I immediately sent my new colleague a letter of congratulations, inviting her to get to know her in the very short term and to discuss the various Belgian-Dutch railway files, including the Hamant-Weert dossier. This meeting will take place in the coming weeks. It is always dangerous to comment on the coalition agreement of another country. I fully respect the autonomy of the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, the text is described as a so-called broad agreement. The failure to mention the link Hamont-Weert therefore does not allow definitive conclusions to be drawn at this stage. It is up to the new Secretary of State to implement these new guidelines. I hope that this interpretation will be positive for the links between our two countries. I would like to point out to the members of the committee that on the Belgian side the works on this line have been carried out all the way up to the border. On 3 December last year, Demissionary Secretary of State Van Weyenberg informed the House of Representatives of recent developments in the Netherlands in international rail transport. The letter also dealt with the Hamont-Weert connection and was accompanied by a number of studies on the connection. Those documents are freely available through the website of the Lower House. With regard to the SNCB study, the documents relating to it have already been made available to the committee members in the past, Mr Toventors. You can request it from the secretariat. I can also tell Mr Verduyckt and Mrs Buyst that the steering group'short-term cross-border traffic' meets on average twice a year. Last year the autumn meeting was postponed until spring 2022, because the Dutch cabinet was outgoing. That meeting took place on Monday 31 January. On the Belgian side, the technical working group included representatives of my cabinet and of the administration. There was a state of play on the various dossiers relating to our two countries. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again the importance I attach to this cross-border rail dossier, both from Limburg and from a Belgian perspective, as well as the commitment to making concrete progress, together with our northern neighbours. I end with the promise to raise the file explicitly during my consultation with the Dutch Minister and Secretary of State, but as I said, the ball is in the Orange Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I welcome the conclusion of your answer, in which you reiterate your commitment to that project. At the beginning of your answer, I was less pleased. You spoke of congratulations and an invitation, but I had hoped that you had already sat together on that. These weeks are crucial. As Mr Van den Bergh pointed out, this is not in the Dutch coalition agreement. Of course, it would have been better. The fact that this is not in the coalition agreement is not a disaster and certainly not a world disaster. After all, it works in the same way as it does with us. The Dutch Department of Infrastructure and Water State must submit policy papers and is of particular importance in those plans. If there's nothing in those plans either, we're de facto having a dead project, I'm afraid. As a minister, you can prevent it from being in those policy papers. This cannot be done by sending negative signals, such as the SNCB study that presented a negative business case and that's it. That SNCB study naturally raised concerns in the Netherlands, in particular as to whether interest still exists. Since that study shows that it is not profitable, it seems as if it is no longer necessary. So that has a negative influence on the spirits in the Netherlands. You can still fill it in positively by opening all the registers and getting everything out of the closet to convince your Dutch colleagues that we are really motivated and want to make that connection a reality. There is still a lot to study about costs and exploitation, but the lobbying work that needs to be done now is essential. The Netherlands should be convinced to include this in the policy plans and the policy papers. That's the most important thing now. With regard to SNCB's report, I would like to make another correction. We have received a summary, a small pdf, but the effective report, including Stratec's study, has never been received, at least not me. I think that summary raises a lot of questions. I regret that, because it was always said that we would cross together and at the same time. In the Netherlands there was a second opinion in the drawer and in SNCB the study mentioned. That Dutch second opinion is now available to everyone. I think that's a very good report. That Dutch report does not express itself on the project itself but on the first study. This first study is considered without an opinion on the opportunity of the project itself. Thus, some reservations are expressed in the first study, such as the heavy overbudgeting and the different fixed assumptions as a starting point that have not yet been established. So I think there is still a lot of work to be done. The most important thing, however, is that you cross the line with your Dutch colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u10	It has been mentioned several times in this committee what a nice project could mean this collaboration between Belgium and the Netherlands. We have even adopted a resolution on it. I also hear that you, Minister, see this cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands as an opportunity. Mobility should not have any boundaries and therefore the train should not have any extension. I live in a region where there is a lot of enthusiasm about this train connection, as in Belgian Limburg. It is reported that Dutch-Limburg would also receive this cross-border train connection with great enthusiasm. The local policy makers are enthusiastic about this project and it is now important to convey this enthusiasm to our Dutch neighbours. Belgium must take the lead in this. I am pleased that there is already a steering committee that meets regularly, although it was necessary to wait for a government to be appointed. It is now the perfect time to express that enthusiasm and also to make our northern neighbours see the importance of a cross-border train connection for their region, Dutch Limburg. I am counting on you, Minister, to keep the dossier on the table proactively with the Dutch colleagues, just because both Belgians and Dutch are convinced of the opportunities this fine cooperation can bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u11	I indicated in the question that this is an important dossier, Minister. You have also been able to tell this from the replies of colleagues. In fact, at the end of your own reply, I found that you, too, recognise the importance of the dossier. The resolution adopted unanimously at the time gives a very good picture of the importance of this connection. The resolution outlines the historic route between Antwerp and Eindhoven, but in reality it is much more than that. This is a cross-border rail link in the heart of the Euregio, not just somewhere in the field, which offers the opportunity to track from Antwerp to Eindhoven and so on in the Netherlands, even in Germany. The Swedish legislature has already worked hard on this dossier, with the opening of the Hamont station in 2014. Meanwhile, electrification is also finished. It is also a line that would not be wrong between the eight other cross-border rail links. On three of them, there are even fewer travelers per day. With about 1,000 travelers this is a line that certainly has potential. It is not because SNCB classifies this as a negative business case on the basis of the financial burden that we need to separate it from the social benefits of that railway line. It is your power to defend that statement, regardless of what SNCB says. Convince your new member of office personally of the common interest of that project. You've already sent her a letter to congratulate her. You'll meet in a few weeks, but it's too late. Do not hide behind working groups to not enter into personal consultations here and now, from Minister to Secretary of State, with all due respect for Cabinets and working groups. You'll have to take this file in hand. It is a win-win situation for everyone, for all of us, for the Kempen, for Limburg and also for you as a minister who will thus be able to achieve a piece of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u12	It is good that the technical working group has met again and that there is regular feedback between the two countries for cross-border connections. The conclusion of a political agreement on this line will be crucial. If we leave this to the railway companies, it won't happen. The cost-benefit analysis of SNCB is not necessarily so negative. It has been proposed as a negative business case, but given the number of passengers it is feasible, also since the train stands still for forty minutes in Hamont. There are plenty of reasons to think that there is an interesting project there, provided that the infrastructure is realized on the Dutch side. On the Dutch side, the infrastructure is even realized provided that the railway company SNCB subsequently wants to drive over it. This shouldn't be a story about the chicken or the egg. At some point, the policy-makers will have to get their hands together and say that they want a train there and who needs to do what to get there. That'll be the key to this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u13	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, last December, SNCB unveiled its transportation plan for 2022. After reading it, I must confess that I am worried about the railway mobility in Hesbaye Ligeoise and around Waremme in particular. This has already been pointed out to you by my mayor, Mr Chabot, and my fellow municipal councillor, Mr Ruelle. If this plan has very positive points such as the extension of the Waremme-Liège line to the Seraing and Flemalle stations, important for employment and education, the new frequencies and new schedules will send many citizens back to the car, the train can no longer be considered as a structural solution in our countryside. Indeed, there are times when a student, for example, will no longer be able to return from Liège after completing his or her course, In recent years, we have already suffered the disappearance of several state-of-the-art trains and the omnibus trains from Liège to Waremme no longer operate beyond 8:36 p.m. It's very early for a professional, student or social life. Today, the last IC will leave the Guillemins at 9:55 p.m. instead of 11:01 p.m., and that's not nothing. Such a schedule will no longer allow the Waremmen to participate in the cultural life of Liège and will force many students and workers to use the car rather than the train. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, while the government agreement stated that "in the area of mobility, the government will take all the necessary measures to promote the most environmentally friendly travel", what measures do you intend to implement to realize this intention and reverse the steam, if I can say so, which pushes many commuters towards the roads, turning them off the rail? This is obviously counterproductive, and it runs counter to any ecological, economic and social approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u14	Mr Rigot, you are presenting things very pessimisticly. However, there has been an increase in the supply since this government took office and I took office as Minister of Mobility. We must, of course, continue in this direction for the benefit of all regions. In order to make rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium, we need to increase rail supply structurally. This is what we are working on with SNCB, whose transport plan 2020-2023 foresees, despite the budgetary difficulties associated with the covid, an increase of 5% in the rail supply, i.e. in the long term about 1,000 trains more per week. This means more frequent trains, morning trains, later trains. Specifically, for Waremme, since last December, during the week, the S44 Waremme-Liège-Guillemins relationship is extended to Seraing and Flémalle-Haute every hour. The frequency of trains connecting Seraing to Ougrée and Ougrée to Liège-Guillemins is thus increased to two trains per hour in each direction throughout the day. By December 2020, the offer on the S44 relationship had already been increased to the benefit of the passengers from Waremme by adding a train S44 at 8:51 pm from Waremme to Liège, as well as a new route at 8:36 pm from Liège-Guillemins to Waremme. I think we need to continue in this direction. SNCB plans to further develop its offer in December 2022. This is the time when the new transport plan is being put in place, especially in the region of Liège as presented at the roadshows organised in autumn 2020 and to which the local authorities were invited. I have no doubt that they participated. SNCB is also involved in the development of the municipal mobility plan for several cities and municipalities and provides all the necessary expertise. In Wallonia, she follows in particular the implementation of the urban mobility plan of Liège and will be involved in that of Charleroi. SNCB is taking the necessary steps to integrate the consultative bodies of the mobility basins that were set up in 2019 so that all mobility actors can think together about the development of intermodal nodes. She is always willing to discuss all ideas on intermodality further. We are on the road to a structural increase in supply. It takes time; it requires resources, but we regularly move in this direction both in the context of the transport plans and in the context of SNCB's future public service contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u15	Deputy Prime Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you. I have already asked you about the future of the railway in Waremme concerning the accessibility of the windows, the security of the parking lot, the free parking to be kept absolutely and the security of the bicycle parking lot. It must be noted that today, this small rural commune, which is Waremme, 15,000 inhabitants, does not have the answers it expects at this level. I'm so sorry! You're giving me answers. I can hear you. You quote Brussels, Charleroi, Liège. You're quoting big cities. Waremme is a rural town, in the countryside, for which we need a response to our concerns and the concerns of our commuters. Today, you are referring to an important programme, but it does not answer my question at all. Today, the train is ecologically necessary – I must not convince you – and it is financially necessary because many of our citizens do not have an alternative to transport. He's also social. Even though Waremme is the capital of Hesbaye, being able to go to the big cities, gaining access to culture, training and employment is an opportunity that needs to be developed. What you're giving me as an answer is not an answer to the Waremmen's problems. I hope that this will be reconsidered. I am not putting the big cities aside, but I am telling you that the towns of 15,000 inhabitants and the commuters of Waremme are waiting for a solution and a real answer. Today, I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u16	Minister, there is now a European regulation on the rights and obligations of rail passengers. This includes a number of steps in the right direction, including assistance for people with disabilities or bicycle seats on the train, but at the same time is not ambitious in all these areas. For example, according to the European regulation, four bicycle seats had to be provided for new or renovated trains from 2025. Fortunately, in the Belgian version, you made it eight cycling spots, as the European Bicycle Federation did early. You are converting this regulation and doing what you can to make it stronger. However, I would also like to see how we can strengthen the rights of rail passengers. Hence my questions. A minimum of eight bicycles in all new or renovated rolling stock is already virtually evident for SNCB. How will you further deepen and anchor the cycling-train strategy in the public service contracts? The resolution on the accessibility of rail traffic adopted in Parliament last year is far more ambitious than the European regulation and the new law on railway companies, for example on the autonomous accessibility of new rolling stock and the reduction of reservation times for persons with reduced mobility. How will you further anchor this ambition in the public service contracts, in accordance with the resolutions adopted by this Parliament? The law on the rights and obligations of rail passengers applies only to national rail traffic. How can we also impose obligations on international trains regarding bicycle seats on board or on accessibility and assistance? In the resolutions on rail accessibility and the combination of bicycle trains, Parliament suggested the possibility of imposing these obligations through the allocation of lanes. How do you feel about this proposal? Did you get that checked out? How will you proceed at European level to make rail passenger rights more attractive so that they are equivalent to those in force in aviation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u17	After 2021, the European Year of Railways, I am determined to continue my ambition for rail in 2022 and the years that follow. The horizon is Belgium as a European and international train hub. Thank you, therefore, for your questions about a dossier that is essential to me, namely the rights of rail passengers and the link to the cycling-train strategy. First of all, I would like to stress that this draft law is not a final measure for me. We must be ambitious and dare to think beyond the European framework. That is what the government has done on my initiative, by already doubling the number of bicycle seats on the new trains, in particular eight instead of four. The winning combination of bike-trains must be so accessible to everyone. In this way, we will build on the new cycling-train strategy that I unveiled together with SNCB in June 2021. The proposal currently before us for discussion is that, depending on the purchase of new rolling stock, SNCB will significantly increase the cycling capacity on that rolling stock by 2032 compared to the existing bicycle capacity at the entry into force of the future public service contract. For example, SNCB will plan at least eight cycling sites per vehicle for new rolling stock. Those cycling pitches come in a multifunctional space, which also offers space for passengers with reduced mobility. It also looks at better and more specific signaling to facilitate boarding and departure for passengers by bike. The aim is also to increase the number of bicycle storage facilities and to increase the number of bicycle points at the stations during the duration of the contract. For the large stations, a detection system is also envisaged to ensure efficient and efficient use of parking spaces for bicycles. The discussions and negotiations with SNCB on accessibility are ongoing under the public service contract, including the question of reservation times for persons with reduced mobility. At the moment, therefore, I cannot go any further on this. We want to be more ambitious in this area, of course, but I cannot anticipate the negotiations under way. As far as your third question is concerned, about international trains and the granting of lanes as a lever for enforcing those rights, that is an interesting line of thought that my cabinet is currently considering. With regard to the places for bicycles on trains, Regulation 2021/782 of the European Union on the rights and obligations of rail passengers throughout the Union applies to international and domestic train journeys and services provided by railway undertakings authorised by a European Member State. International rail services are therefore also covered by the Regulation. The rule of at least four places for bicycles in each train composition will therefore also apply directly to them. Furthermore, the law on the rights and obligations of rail passengers in Belgium applies to the railway undertakings SNCB and Thalys, which are licensed in Belgium in accordance with the Regulation referred to earlier, and to the trains operating in Belgium under the SNCB licence. For them the rule of eight slots will apply. As you know, on the European stage in particular, I always draw the map of the train, the bicycle and the rights of rail passengers. I will not fail to do so in this case either. The guiding principles are the review of European regulations to further support and facilitate rail travel and the fight against unfair competition from air, truck or car travel. The Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union will be the ideal opportunity for me to place important priorities in the field of mobility on the European agenda. We are currently preparing it. Regulation 1371/2007 on the rights and obligations of rail passengers has recently been revised and will be replaced by Regulation 2021/782 from 7 June 2023. These new rules will make rail passengers' rights more attractive, so that they are the same as those applicable to air passengers. In conclusion, I support your call to explore ways to further strengthen the rights of rail passengers. This increases the attractiveness of the train as a means of transport, something we all gain from. Long live the train!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u18	Minister, if we want to make the most logical choice of the train, both for commuting and leisure trips as well as for international travel, then we must make it easy for people to book a ticket to take that train, to board a bicycle or wheelchair and to ask for support in case of delays or problems. It is noted that there is a difference with regard to asking for a refund. Asking for a refund for train tickets is a lot harder than for plane tickets. Strong passenger rights are therefore an excellent opportunity to make travellers more comfortable. This new European regulation is a step in the right direction. I am very pleased to hear that this is not a final objective for you, but that it should also be more ambitious. By placing the traveller at the heart of the journey, we can make the train even more attractive, which is clearly our both goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u19	Mr. President, Minister, in the United States, the Federal Aviation Regulatory Agency recently found that installing 5G technology around airports could pose risks to the safety of aircraft and thus passengers. The radio frequencies used by 5G are similar to those used by aircraft's radio altimeters when they land in bad weather, to the extent that it has been envisaged that telecommunications operators should postpone the installation of the 5G network. My question may be a few weeks old, but it's still up to date. Minister, are the concerns of the U.S. administration about interference between 5G waves and aircraft radio altimeters at home? Are the frequencies of radio altimeters and 5G technology also close in Belgium and Europe? Finally, how has the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT), which is responsible for allocating the use of spectrum, considered this issue? At what level are the applicable standards defined?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u20	Mrs Zanchetta, thank you for this interesting and relevant question. Indeed, the risk of interference with equipment of a limited number of aircraft types, including some old models of radio altimeters, cannot be excluded. This is valid throughout the world, and therefore also in Europe. Eurocontrol, the aircraft guidance body, the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), the European Commission and aircraft and instrument manufacturers work closely together to determine the actual extent of the problem and, if necessary, to develop measures to ensure safety. My air administration – DGTA – alerted me last November about the risk of 5G interference with certain aircraft. The ad hoc meeting with DGTA was subsequently convened by my firm. This meeting made it possible to better target the problem and to remove some fears. DGTA has also contacted EASA and IBPT, which you mentioned. Last November, EASA, on the basis of preliminary information, informed DGTA that it was convinced that there were no dangerous conditions. EASA is further investigating the file and will issue a final report this year. In addition, the IBPT informed DGTA that it had put in place preventive measures similar to those in France, but that it intends to withdraw as a result of EASA's comments. Nevertheless, DGTA advised the IBPT to maintain these preventive measures until the final report is published. DGTA will, of course, inform me of the final conclusions of the EASA report, and my firm will follow this file closely. You will have understood that all preventive measures have been taken pending better 5G risk documentation for certain types of aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u21	Minister, thank you for this answer, which is rather reassuring. We will therefore very impatiently await the conclusions of this investigation. It goes without saying that aviation safety is paramount and that such interference cannot be allowed, with the possible consequences for air traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u22	Minister, my three questions have a very different perspective, even though they have been merged. The first question is about the future of Securail in a liberalised rail landscape, but also about the more immediate future, because the open access system already allows third-party rail companies to offer passenger transport services on our tracks today. What could that mean for the safety of both the employees of the railway companies concerned and the passengers? It is not clear to me what the legal framework is today. Under the circumstances, can these railway undertakings avail themselves of the services of Securail? If so, under what conditions? Or should they themselves set up a security service in accordance with the law on private security? What would the powers of those private security services be in the station environments? Can they patrol the stations? What authority do they have on the platforms, which are then shared with various railway companies? What's that all about? I would have liked to have been briefed on the legal framework that applies today and also on your vision as a supervisory authority. Secondly, we are aware of the safety problems on the railways. Not a month goes by without cases of damage to physical integrity in the press, both from train escorts and employees of Securail. In this respect, there is a demand for a possible extension of the powers of the staff of Securail. They have a very different statute than the agents of the railway police. They are less protected and have fewer means of defence. How do you view an adjustment of the powers of the agents of Securail, both geographically, for example in station environments, and in terms of their tasks, for example, the possibility of making observations among others? How can we guarantee more than today that the legal self-defense of the agents of Securail is guaranteed? How can we increase the authority of Securail agents? Is there better coordination with the railway police? How can we better protect these safety people from complaints from malicious passengers in the event of a dispute on the trains and in the stations? What are your views on the change and adaptation of equipment, both uniform and defences? What action is desirable with regard to recruitment, framework and training, such as self-defense techniques and further adjustments to working conditions? Thirdly, at a recent committee meeting, you regretted the increase in the number of violence against Securail employees. In what way are incidents of violence recorded? Is there a standard form or a standard procedure for this? How does the number of notifications evolve? Is there an increase in violence specifically for the Securail agents? How many notifications were not registered on the basis of formal or procedural errors? In what way do you want to further improve the follow-up of aggression cases? SNCB is a bourgeois party when its train escorts are attacked. Is this also the case in the case of Securail employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u23	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u24	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, last month, this committee was concerned about the ignoble aggression of a train attendant in Ottignies. Today, the figures are clear: attacks on railway workers have increased by more than 40% compared to the pre-crisis period. In the face of this phenomenon, the agents of Securail are on the front line. I would also like to highlight the quality of the work, the self-denial and the dedication of all these agents that I often see and meet because I regularly use the train. You have instructed the Advisory Council on Private Security to review the legislation governing their intervention framework, the division of labour with the police, their defences and their uniforms, including the issue of badges. Securail agents face violent refusals to pay a ticket, aggressive alcoholics or even the provocation of violent gangs. To this, it is necessary to add, as if the picture were not already gloomy enough, a front-line work with people in distress and psychological distress, sometimes with very few means and with only strength and instrument their dedication to the causes and social situations they encounter. The Metisp union, which I personally met on several occasions, was particularly concerned about this situation. Deprived of their integrity while ensuring the safety of users, the officers of Securail assume an under-investment of the railway police and a time of intervention of the police often too long. Added to this is the lack of clarity of the statute. What do we expect from them? Prevention or intervention? The difference is essential, Minister, to meet the legitimate expectations of citizens, particularly in emergency situations. Minister, is the legal framework sufficiently clear? Is it not urgent to clarify the administrative situation of these agents and their status more like guarding than actual preventive and public safety functions, with all that this implies as means but also as protection for their integrity? Should these public service employees be subject to the same regime as private sector custodianship? This is a question which can be asked and which arises especially since the missions which are theirs are very different from those which concern guarding. Why, then, Minister, do not provide for a statute and prerogatives commensurate with their mission? Finally, is the Advisory Council on Private Security able to assess the specificity of Securail's public service missions? So what about the proposals to strengthen the railway police, to provide for patrols of at least three officers, to improve the training of officers, to improve international cooperation for cross-border trains, and to revise the Royal Decree on Canine Brigades? I am very explicit here. What timetable do you intend to put in place with regard to these agents? These are specific questions, Deputy Prime Minister. I hope the answers will be as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u25	The number of cases of aggression on the train, both against passengers and staff, is increasing enormously. We really need to ensure that both rail passengers and staff can travel safely and do their jobs. Are such crimes new phenomena? Does SNCB have a prevention plan to prevent these crimes? To my written question No. 686 replied that there were 537 full-time equivalents at Securail in early 2021. That would be 22 less than in 2019. How do you explain this staff dismantling? Would you not invest more in rail and rail passenger safety? How many vacancies are available for Securail today? Are additional agents recruited in 2022? Is it the order of Securail agents to take care of the absence of the railway police? Do you think there are enough railway police officers active on the premises today? Will you address Mrs Verlinden and ask her for more action? How do you see the role of Securail in the future? Would you like to integrate those security officers into the railroad police? Would you like to give them more powers? Would you like to strengthen the service? Do you want less or more centralization of the Securail services? Can SNCB hang stickers on the train wagons with an emergency number? Securail is accessible via a free emergency number but is not active via popular channels such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp. It is important to lower the thresholds and make Securail easier to reach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u26	Minister, I think everyone is waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u27	That's normal, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the safety of passengers and rail personnel is a top priority for me, as crucial as the comfort, frequency and punctuality of trains. This is a condition for attracting more people to this mode of transportation – which is one of my priorities. Moreover, safety is a subject that we regularly discuss in the Committee on Mobility or even in plenary. The last time was in October and December. On every occasion, I try to provide you with the most complete answers possible. I repeat, violence is unacceptable. We can never find aggression normal, not against travelers and certainly not against employees in a public position, such as a train guide or an agent of Securail. Behind every uniform of a train attendant or a Securail employee is a human being, sometimes a mother or a father, who deserves our respect for the essential role he or she plays in the safety of the passengers and the smooth movement of trains. They have always let the trains run, even in the difficult covid times. Pursuant to Articles 156 and 155a of the 1991 Law on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, SNCB is responsible for ensuring safety in its installations, such as stations and trains. However, other operators may also contact SNCB, so that Securail can guarantee security on their trains. This is the case, for example, for Eurostar, applying Article 160 of the Law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security. That provision expressly allows the agents of Securail to secure the trains of railway undertakings other than SNCB when those undertakings have previously submitted a request to that effect. The same operators can also provide security on their trains with their own resources. According to the general provisions of the above-mentioned Law of 2 October 2017, they may even rely on private companies specialised in them. However, in order for the safety services of railway undertakings other than SNCB to have the same powers as Securail, the law of 2 October 2017 will have to be amended accordingly. In the current state of legislation, only Securail is authorised to secure stations and platforms. Securail has specific expertise in the security of the rail sector. Therefore, the service must be maintained. Mr Laaouej, with regard to the missions of the Securail officers, I have indeed asked the Private Security Advisory Council to analyse the adequacy of the division of labour between the police and private security officers, and the adequacy of the legislation on the operating framework of the Securail officers, their defence and their uniforms, including the issuance of badges to enable them to be better identified. I therefore await the opinion of this Council in order to take a decision on any extension of the powers of security officers. It seems to me that this is a measure that must be previously documented. Securail agents are responsible for security, but they are not policemen. In this regard, I am in close contact with my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, in order to make progress in the revision of the circular known as Duquesne, which aims to ensure a clear division of labour between the local police and the railway police for the safety of the stations, on the docks and on the trains. I have already sent him several letters; there have been several contacts with my cabinet on this subject, but the responsibility lies first, as Minister of the Interior. I hope we can move forward together. I am open to adapting a number of powers or resources to the current rail landscape. For example, the architectural evolution of the stations should be better charged. The boundaries of a station are not so tightly defined anymore, so it is not always easy to know where the powers of the Securail agents reach. A perimeter of several metres around the station would provide more legal certainty. Another example is the replacement buses, which are increasingly being used by SNCB. These are not explicitly included in the legislation. Since Securail does not fall within my remit alone, but also of my colleague from the Interior, I have instructed my cabinet to hold a meeting with the Home Office and with SNCB, in order to analyse the possibilities for improvement. The Securail agents, of whom I have met the representatives, also state that they are suffering from the lack of public knowledge of their special powers. In this respect, I welcome the campaign on mutual respect for the safety professions recently launched by Minister Verlinden. I asked SNCB to prepare a campaign to make the public aware of the rights and obligations of travellers under the law on railway police. The Act regulating private and special security determines the cases in which passengers may be removed from the train by security agents. As it should be in a state of law, travellers have the right to lodge a complaint if they consider that the legal conditions have not been complied with. SNCB shall provide legal aid to its staff in the event of a complaint, except where the committed error is not entirely excusable. There is normally a periodic renewal for the equipment of the Securail agents. Certain equipment must comply with the conditions laid down by the Law regulating private and special safety. The choice of new equipment models is discussed, taking into account that framework, in the Committees on Prevention and Protection at Work and gives rise to the conduct of tests on the ground with a panel of agents. That's what happens for the bulletproof vests, for example. In addition, a reorganization of Securail has been under way since July 2021. This was discussed between the management of SNCB and the staff unions in December. Its implementation began in early 2022. The appointment of 25 additional Securail officers is foreseen in particular. The framework has obviously not been diminished in recent years. As you know, SNCB and the federal government will soon conclude a public service contract defining SNCB's public service tasks for the next ten years. Discussions are under way, and part of them relate precisely to the security missions carried out by Securail. Additional recruitment will also be provided, depending on the missions defined in this new public service contract. SNCB is currently setting up a process to improve its framework and internal training. This should lead to more quality and efficiency in services and to fewer cases of aggression and inability to work. In addition, SNCB wishes to raise the issue of the alignment of compulsory external training in the group to be set up in the Department of the Interior. I do not know of any special requests concerning any premiums granted to staff. Moreover, that depends on SNCB itself. With regard to Mr Roggeman's third question, I can inform you that all SNCB employees, including Securail agents, who are victims of verbal or physical aggression, can report this themselves via a post-aggression form. That form is available digitally on the smartphones. The forms form the basis for SNCB's official aggression figures. The reports of aggression are divided into the following categories: insults, threats, verbal aggression, minor violence and, finally, beatings and injuries. Since the aggression form was made digitally available in April 2019, the number of reports by Securail agents has increased significantly. This is largely due to increased awareness, the threshold lowering effect and the reduction of the administrative burden. A comparison in five years' time is therefore likely to produce a distorted picture. Any report made by the staff shall be taken into account, but only the cases of aggression for which a complaint is made may be prosecuted to the police. Although the organization insists on this, it does not always do so. In many cases, whether or not a complaint is made depends on the severity of the aggression experienced by the victim and the physical or psychological consequences of the aggression. The internal follow-up of the aggression cases of the Securail agents is now done in an optimally efficient way. If a SNCB employee, including the Securail agents, became the victim of aggression, then at least one civil party, HR Rail or SNCB itself, is always present. HR Rail and SNCB have provided me with a memo detailing exactly what action they take when their personnel are confronted with aggressive facts. Our railway company therefore takes these facts very seriously. Mr Toventos, SNCB prefers not to communicate the figures you are asking for. They are first discussed in the joint organs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I note that you are open to adapting the powers, setting up a perimeter around the stations and extending the power to replace buses. I also think it is appropriate to look at the scope of the substantive powers of the staff themselves. The people on the ground tell me that there is a very great reluctance to intervene. Complaints and sanctions are being feared, with the result that people are holding back to intervene effectively on any issues at the stations and on trains. Often one does nothing more than kindly ask those involved to stop their disorderly behaviour and possibly leave the train. However, our employees must be able to do more; they are not punching balls. Under certain circumstances, they must be able to act in a lawful and proportionate manner and, if necessary, to use means of defence without fearing the performance of their duties. Au fond is the same: they are between hammer and anvil, with, on the one hand, disorderly users of public transport and, on the other hand, possible sanctions from above, when they are at risk of exceeding certain lines or when there is a dispute. For them too, legal certainty about what they can and should do is important. The extension of the powers of the agents of Securail should therefore be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the good questions they have put. It didn't always come up with an answer, but I could get you that for a piece. I am glad that the theme is on the table and that everyone is working on it. I think that's very important. For the rest, I can only say that, through Mrs Dutordoir, SNCB is sending tough tweets, but when I ask for the follow-up to the tweets and figures, the same SNCB suddenly says that it does not want to give figures. A Member of Parliament cannot therefore implement his control function in practice. I can only regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u30	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. You have given us a certain amount of information. The Advisory Committee has before it. You are waiting for his answers in order to make your own opinion on the legal framework that organizes the functioning of the Securail agents, on the opportunity to see this framework evolve in order in particular to provide them with better protection. There's an emergency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I also understand from your statement that you are also expecting a signal from your colleague, the Minister of the Interior. We will not fail to question him elsewhere, but I believe that we must be able to take the bull by the horns and, as they are agents who operate within the railway, you will understand that we expect you to be able to ensure that your actions towards the Minister of the Interior can be followed up so that you can get a return as soon as possible. We can do our part in Parliament, but I believe that a bilateral relationship with it, from your cabinet, will certainly have more effect in terms of speed. There is an urgent need, indeed, when we see that these agents are faced with danger – let's say things like they are – to people who are sometimes under influence, to gangs, in short, to situations that would immediately require treatment of a rather police nature. But very often, as they tell us, police patrols are slow to arrive, leaving them alone in situations for which they are not always empowered to intervene, in any case without the capacity to mobilize resources, including interventions that would lead them to go beyond their responsibilities. I believe that we must go towards clarification, also strengthening their prerogatives, let us say the way they are. No, they are not policemen, of course, but it is certainly possible to adapt their status to give them a little more latitude and, above all, to have a framework that protects them. I think that's the most important thing to bear in mind. These Securail agents ensure our safety, do prevention. They help to improve the soothing nature of railways, especially at certain more critical times. Let's be on their side! Let us hear their message to solve this problem as quickly as possible. There is a real urgency, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I repeat. We ask you to act quickly and to ask the Minister of the Interior even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u31	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the matter is indeed urgent. The problems are too great. There are too many incidents. In my view, it is not just a question of increasing aggression. An analysis is appropriate here. In my view, the reduction in employment in different areas of SNCB has also been a factor in recent years. We'll get that from the staff anyway. There's a lot less people working now. The counters are closed and the sub-chiefs are gone. All these things contribute to more aggression on and around the train. I believe that we should also include the fact that there are too few people present in the debate on greater safety, both for staff and for rail passengers. I really hope that steps will be taken forward. It is a good thing that we are already working on prevention, but we also need to focus on sufficient staff, which contributes to greater security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u32	Mr Minister, it is indeed about line 82 between Burst and Aalst. On the first day of school after Christmas, it was clearly not foreseen at the end of the holiday or at the end of distance learning. Halfway through the route there were too many travelers. At the Erpe-Mere stop, dozens of commuters, mostly students, had to leave the train. They weren't allowed to leave at the next stops. More than that, even the train guide could not ride the train anymore, so it had to stop because it was no longer safe to keep the train running. I think a lot of strange things have happened there. SNCB had already ordered a replacement bus in advance, because they had correctly estimated that there would be a lot of people on the train the next day. Yet there were only two wagons instead of the usual four. However, it was announced several times during the Christmas holidays by SNCB that it would run at full capacity. But apparently that wasn't the case on line 82. According to SNCB's spokesman, the passengers had to get off because a train is full when 100 percent of the seats are full, according to the current rules of public transport. TrainTramBus was also surprised. No one knew about this rule. We were wondering if this is a new corona rule of SNCB. Is that right? When has this been communicated and are additional measures taken to prevent people from getting off and waiting for another train or to tune in to something else? After all, there will still be busy lines during rush hour. If we look at the future of line 82, will four instead of two wagons be provided? I myself live next door to line 82, so I know four wagons are now being deployed. But it's also about the future of this line. She has enormous potential, more than just transporting students. That is why I ask you whether there are any other initiatives to make full use of this potential.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I naturally find it annoying that this incident took place and that the young people in question were affected. SNCB lets me know that she has apologized for the inconvenience that has been suffered and I certainly agree with those apologies. Furthermore, SNCB will let me know the following. A first element is the fact that that train was driven with reduced composition, a second fact is that the train supervisor made a decision on best judgement. On the capacity problem, SNCB informs me that when preparing the train, the Chief of Staff had correctly estimated that the capacity would not be sufficient to be able to transport all pupils without any problems that morning. The board chief has made every effort to put in a replacement bus that did all the stops of the usual journey and thus could compensate for the reduced composition. About the decision of the train supervisor I can say that the board chief assesses whether his/her train can leave safely. A group of students therefore indeed stranded back on the platform, which is very unfortunate, especially in the context of the first day of school and the weather conditions that day. An overcrowded train is at the moment, given the pandemic, best to avoid for health reasons. For this reason, SNCB advises its customers in the current context not to get on a train in which many people are already present and to take another train. To this end, the SNCB app added the possibility to consult the predicted capacity utilisation rate of a train. The number of trains with high capacity utilisation is minimal. In the week before Christmas, only 2.46 % of trains had a capacity utilisation rate of more than 80 %. When SNCB determines a high capacity utilisation rate, it will take action. In concrete terms, SNCB carries out travel arrangements in order to avoid overcrowding of trains. Depending on the number of seats, passengers may leave or be referred to another train. More details on how SNCB informs its customers to avoid busy situations are available on its website. I hope to be able to say that the incident confirms the rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u34	Minister, I think your answer is rather general. You say that during the corona crisis it is not recommended to get on a full train and take the next train. On line 82, however, there are three trains in the morning, two in the afternoon and three in the evening. That train is tuned to school hours and is the last one to Aalst in the morning, then he drives back to Burst. So getting on a next train is not obvious, especially when one is at one of the remote intermediate stations. I hope that these four wagons will be retained, but I would like to stress once again that I have been working for 20 years for this line and that it has been a stop-and-go policy for 20 years. Then there are four wagons and then two, which makes the train overcrowded. Then the afternoon trains will be abolished for a long time and then re-entered after a lot of pressure from Erpe-Mere and the many actions that were being carried out. There are also no stops, although this is provided for in the mobility plan and SNCB has also negotiated that plan. The train runs along an industrial and SME area, including Colruyt's Collect & Go, but the hours are not tailored to the working hours of shiftworkers. For example, the train doesn't drive in summer either, but apparently the summer starts in mid-June and then it has to be called before driving again. That train has much more potential than just transporting students. If we want to exploit the potential of that line, we need to stop the stop-and-go policy and see how the time schedule can be adapted to working hours. This could be an ideal connection in the South-East Flanders region to convince people to take the step towards public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u35	Minister, I agree with Mr Vanrobaeys' reply. I think it is silly to say here that travellers should find another solution. If SNCB does not provide the capacity on its routes, it is only a matter of time before this problem will arise again. Then it won't be the exception that confirms the rule. As you have indicated yourself, currently 2.46 % of the trains are above its capacity, but that 2.46 % is much more when it is expressed in the proportion of passengers themselves. We are talking about tens of thousands of people who face this problem. I think it is somewhat inappropriate to say that it is the responsibility of the traveller to take another train or to find another solution. People pay and can still count on a service in return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u36	I would like to join the first speaker. It is important that people can take the train and that there is enough space. We also note that the app does not always provide correct information. I often take the train myself and always hear that the app has already sent a wrong message. I don't know if there was still room in first class, but we've been a long-time requesting party to abolish first class. Make first class accessible to everyone. That would be a good solution. You indicate that the staff must indicate whether they may be in first class. We note, however, that this is almost never happening and that such a request is constantly being rejected. Why has people not been placed in first class in this particular case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u37	Minister, the end of electrification works on line 15 between Hasselt and Mol is foreseen in 2022. Can you give an update on the timing and budgets?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u38	Mr. Toventors, Infrabel will let me know the following. The electrification works on line 15 itself are currently running according to the planned schedule. The contractor is currently placing overhead lines in certain zones and rolling down the overhead contact line. The works for traction under stations and the sectioning post are also running smoothly. The target remains to employ the line electrically by the end of 2022. That is an ambitious planning given the scope expansion, in particular the lifting and renewal of some bridges over line 15, because the old bridges were too low and there was therefore too little gabarit to allow the overhead wire to pass. The works started at the end of 2021. According to the current estimate, the planned budget is sufficient for the planned works.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and the good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u40	Mr Minister, at the start of the De Croo government, we read in the formation note that the unique operatorship for rail passenger transport was allocated to SNCB for ten years. However, the note also stated that in parallel with this in Flanders and Wallonia, in cooperation with the regional authorities, a pilot project will be set up in one transport region, where one operator for the demand-driven nuclear and additional network can be designated by tender. What is the current status of these pilot projects? What steps have already been taken in this area (consultations, studies, etc.)? What steps still need to be taken? What is the timing for the further roll-out? Are there any potential or even exact locations known for the roll-out of those pilot projects, and if so, what are those locations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u41	Mr Toventos, I can assure you that I know very well the federal government agreement, in particular the chapter on mobility. First of all, the coalition agreement provides for the government to award a direct award to SNCB for its public service mission to act as passenger transport operator in our country for the next ten years, and this for the entire rail network. The first steps were taken at the end of last year with the publication of the intention of direct allocation in the Official Journal of the European Union and negotiations are ongoing. As regards the pilot project 'external rail operator', such an opening requires intensive preparation and updating of the Belgian legislative framework in consultation with the regional level, as provided for in the government agreement. SNCB offers a wide range of services, on which we need a clear and precise view. Experiences abroad can also feed our reflection on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, such an opening up indeed requires intensive preparation. That is also why I urge that work be done on it. It worries me a little that I haven't heard of it yet, because at the moment there is actually a project like this already in progress. We have the three-country train Aachen-Maastricht-Liège, which was laid in by Arriva. It's been difficult for a while. In short, the Walloon trade unions have been paid off to let this train run in exchange for the fact that Liège drivers are allowed to drive these Dutch trains. When that train arrives in Liège, it has to wait 8 minutes, which is not interesting for a private operator. It is then decided to let the train continue. Thus, the suburban network of Liège actually reaches into Liers. In practice, therefore, there is already a pilot project for Wallonia. A private operator is already driving past Liège, right up to Liers. Why isn't this the way things are going in Flanders? In Limburg, but also in other places, I do not want to exclude anyone, there are some projects that could be eligible for this. So I urge you to get to work on this quickly and get to work on it quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u43	Minister, according to the Standing Committee on Language Control, SNCB's broadcasting policy in Brussels stations does not comply with language legislation. I refer to opinion 52.034 implementing Article 18 of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters. This broadcasting policy is not the only case in which SNCB interprets language legislation a little too laxly, because our railway companies, including Infrabel, have been operating for more than twenty years without a language framework, although it is legally required, with all possible consequences for compliance with language legislation. Minister, will SNCB bring its broadcasting policy into line with the law? Why is there no language framework for the railways yet? How long will this violation of language law take?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u44	Minister, I agree with Mr Roggeman's question, which was a good summary. As a Flemish nationalist party member, I can only see that the file on complaints relating to non-compliance with language legislation is getting thicker and thicker. For the rest, I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u45	Colleagues, as a public undertaking, SNCB is subject to the provisions of the legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters of 18 July 1966. The opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring allows for some derogations. SNCB wants the traveller to be at the heart of the matter and wants to inform its passengers correctly. The current regulations are not customer-oriented enough. In Kortrijk, for example, SNCB wants to inform both its Dutch-speaking and French-speaking customers who travel to Lille/Lille on the train about the composition of the train. So I and SNCB regret that the Standing Committee on Language Control interprets the regulation so strictly that it prevents passengers from being properly informed. If we want to give the train a central place in our transport model, a more flexible and customer-oriented interpretation is required. The Advisory Committee of the Train Passengers follows us on this. A more customer-oriented interpretation, whether or not accompanied by a limited change in the relevant rules, would also fit in with the evolution of autonomous public enterprises into operating in a liberalised context, where it would be appropriate for SNCB and its competitors to have the same playing field as far as possible. I will look together with SNCB at what steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u46	Minister, I understand that SNCB does not consider the regulation to be customer-oriented enough. She may think so, but her assessment is also irrelevant. The law is the law and this society is bound by the implementation of the law. You seem to agree with the fact that an autonomous public body exposes the fact that he is not interested in the law and that it does not apply it either. You are equally bound by the law in your capacity as a guardian minister. It is your legal and constitutional duty to urge the organs under your authority and your custody to enforce the law. The fact that you are simply joining the comments of SNCB, which indicate that it does not care about the legislation and that it does not apply it, simply cannot be done. That is not possible, especially now that I hear that she is also planning to do a little bit on top of the current violations of language legislation by communicating in French in Kortrijk. My pants are falling off completely. What are we doing? A public body must apply the law, just like you, as a minister. Point on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u47	I can't put it any better. I note that the Minister and the management of SNCB say that they do not like the rules. So they wipe their feet on it. That's unseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u48	Minister, in February 2020 the second phase of the renovation works at Hasselt station began. The works would last until the end of 2024 and include the enhancement and renovation of platforms and the installation of lifts and new escalators. What is the status of the project? Will the works indeed be completed by the end of 2024? If not, what is to blame for any delay? What was the original estimated cost of the complete renovation? Will the budget be enough? If not, what is the reason for this? The platforms are also increased in four other stations in Limburg. What is the status of these projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u49	Mr Raskin, the project is still on schedule. In December last year, platforms 4 and 5 entered service. In April, the works on platforms 8 and 9 will start, which will come into service in February 2023. The end date of the works is scheduled for the end of 2024. The original budget for this renovation project was €19.2 million for SNCB and Infrabel. This budget has remained unchanged. The platform increases in Sint-Truiden, Alken and Kiewit are now almost finished. The new platforms are in service for train passengers, only in Kiewit a part is not yet in service. There are some final finishes to be done. The completion of these three projects is foreseen at the end of February this year. In Diepenbeek, the works on the platform increase are in full swing. These works will be completed in the second half of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u50	That's all good news. There are quite a few scandals in this country. The way the station was located in Hasselt was one of them. In the previous legislature, we pressed very hard on the problem and we also managed to get a thorough renovation and multi-annual plans. In this way we will be able to receive the train traveller and the commuter in an orderly manner in the capital of Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u51	Minister, last year you communicated extensively on your Boost Plan, an additional quarter of a billion in rail investment. I have a few simple questions about that. How is that money spent? What projects does that money go to? I'd like to get an overview of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u52	Mr Roggeman, the additional resources of the interesting and important Boost Plan were distributed, taking into account the key and based on three axes: firstly, security and modernisation of the network; secondly, reception, accessibility and intermodality; and thirdly, digitisation. As you know, I attach great importance to consultation with the regions, including on this issue. The budgets of SNCB and the infrastructure manager, Infrabel, are therefore subject to the governing boards, in which regional representatives are present. Your third question is rather broad to answer them exhaustively, but I can certainly give you some examples. In Flanders, €25.7 million of additional funds will go to investments to secure and modernise the rail network. These investments take place on the following lines: line 82: Aalst-Burst; line 86: renewal of cross-beams and two steel bridge decks; line 50a: electrification of zifting and cabling. Part of the budgets also goes to the renewal of the overhead lines and the traction substation Knokke. In Flanders, additional funds of EUR 12.4 million are also earmarked for investment in freight transport. These investments take place in the port of Ghent, for access to the tracks of line 217 and works on the Mercatordok, and in the port of Antwerp, for works on the medium voltage network and the overhead lines of the marshalling plant, for the modernization of the mound and for modernization in general. These budgets also go to the construction of different connections and works in Leuven. In addition, some of the funds, EUR 3.3 million, were allocated to roll out the SNCB's masterplan Stations and to increase the platforms at the stations of Alken, Sint-Truiden, Kiewit, Buggenhout and Blankenberge, and to carry out works at the station of Diepenbeek in the window of the Spartacus project. These investments comply with the rules currently in force by region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I have tried to monitor your distribution of budgets, but if I sum up the amounts of all the projects you listed, I will get a total investment of just over EUR 41 million, while it is a quarter of a billion. I had hoped to obtain the full overview rather than an anthology of investment projects. I hope we can get that somehow. I had already tabled a written question on the allocation of the EUR 250 million, but unfortunately I did not get any clarity. Today I get them for a small part of that budget. It may, of course, be that it has not yet been fully resolved and that part of it still has to be decided, but then too, it would be interesting for Parliament to hear it. Surely we should know what will happen with an extra quarter of a billion dollars?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u54	Those were the figures for the financial year 2022, which you requested in writing. I gave you the answer. The budget of EUR 250 million is valid for three years, including 2023 and 2024. They are good investments, which also come at the request of the companies, including the port of Ghent. This will also provide employment, benefit our economy and help travellers. So you must take that as a positive view.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u55	Thank you for the additional explanation. Do I understand why it is still necessary to decide on which investment projects the remaining EUR 250 million for the years 2023 and 2024 will be spread? The amounts you have listed are for the current financial year only. Does this mean that the distribution over future financial years still have to be decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u56	They will follow the same rules, they will be useful to the companies and the travellers and they will respect the keys.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u57	Minister, the evolutions of autonomous driving have been keeping Parliament busy for some time now. During the previous parliamentary term, the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions worked extensively on this issue, resulting in a resolution involving many colleagues. Recently I read that in Germany Mercedes-Benz has realized a system of automatic hand-free driving at speeds of up to 60 kilometers per hour. This concerns the first approval in Europe for the use of level 3 autonomous driving. As is well known, there are five levels and level 3 means that the car can drive in certain circumstances without the intervention of the driver. The Mercedes-Benz system was approved by the European Economic Commission within the United Nations at the end of last year. In Germany, the traffic regulations were already amended in 2017 to make this hand-free driving possible. This is the only country in Europe. As is well known, our road code still determines today that one has to keep one's hands on the wheel. Given the rapid technological development, it seems important to keep the legal framework uniform at European level. Following that launch in Germany, the European Transport Safety Council (ETSC), almost the umbrella of the Vias of Europe, called for the creation of a European agency to carry out forensic analyses in the event of accidents involving autonomous vehicles. After all, it is important to follow these developments closely, because today there are few statistics available on such cars, of any level of autonomy. The ETSC calls for mandatory reporting of accidents for systems from level 2. Do you have any plans to make that level 3 hand-free ride possible with us? Your predecessor once said that he wanted to encourage such pilot projects. How do you feel about that? What are your views on the ETSC's suggestions regarding the registration of accidents involving autonomous vehicles? How will you follow accidents on Belgian roads with such vehicles? How will they be further investigated?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u58	Mr Van den Bergh, the Belgian traffic regulations do not oblige drivers to have their hands at the wheel. However, it provides that each driver must be able to steer and possess the necessary physical fitness and driving skills. Drivers should also always be able to carry out all necessary driving movements and keep their vehicles in constant control. The use of a level 3 system is therefore not prohibited, provided that the driver has the necessary knowledge of the system to use it safely. This therefore means taking over the driving task of the dynamic system when the driver is requested to do so. Activities like sleep therefore do not fit in that framework. However, the traffic rules do not determine which activities are permitted during the driving of a vehicle. It is not easy to draw up an exhaustive list of such activities. German regulations do not do that either. It provides only that the driver must be sufficiently alert to take over the driving task when the system so requests and when the driver realizes that the conditions for the use of the level 3 system are no longer fulfilled. The Belgian and German regulations are therefore similar. The question is whether it is necessary to specify in the legislation the role and responsibility of a driver using a level 3 system. That's not an easy exercise. This will be addressed in the context of work on the revision of the road code which will be continued shortly. As far as the European Transport Safety Council is concerned, the European Economic Commission of the United Nations (UNECE) is already considering an advanced lane-keeping assistance system, the speed of which would be increased to 120 km/h. Now that's limited to 60 km an hour. This approach raises questions because a road safety analysis of the current system was not carried out first. There is absolutely no need to take too much action to reduce the potential for road safety and social support for this technology. It is important that accident figures involving automated vehicles are kept up to date and analysed. It is not yet clear exactly how that will happen. The manufacturers and developers of intelligent vehicle systems also have a role to play in this. The ETSC's demand for mandatory reporting of such accidents is also included.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u59	Mr. Secretary, these are interesting developments. Also interesting are the finesses of the regulations regarding the control of a vehicle. These developments need to be closely monitored, as this phenomenon will only occur in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that this issue was tabled on 12 January, so some time ago. In the southern part of the province of Luxembourg, the project to close the Sterpenich crossing creates debate. It is an important and crowded transit place that allows many frontier workers to access E411 and Luxembourg. Although the closure of this crossing meets the expectations of many inhabitants, the various alternative routes proposed as a result of this closure do not manage to reach unanimous agreement. On the one hand, a significant part of the population opposes the solutions proposed by Infrabel through a petition. These people fear that their village will be cut off by heavy traffic, especially in the vicinity of the village's school. They therefore plead for an extension of the N4 which would join the E411. On the other hand, the communal majority of Arlon supports the Infrabel solutions, in particular because the proposal to extend the N4 is not environmentally viable as it would pass through a protected natural area. Minister, when does the city of Arlon have to or should it have to reach an agreement on one or the other of these alternatives? Can this period be extended in order to allow for better consultation of citizens? Has the possibility of a crossing below the current crossing for cars been examined by Infrabel? Is this possible? Can other solutions still be explored? What is or will be the schedule for the completion of the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u61	Mr Vajda, the closure of certain level crossings is a safety measure to limit rail-to-road interactions and thus the risk of accidents, because they remain too numerous. We want to reduce them in different ways, for example by replacing level crossings with other works of art. These deletions also have positive consequences in terms of the punctuality of rail traffic, as incidents at level crossings regularly cause delays. Of course, these closures must also take into account the impact on residents, whose lives must be integrated into the co-construction of other modes of transport. It is the method followed by Infrabel, which must comply with it. In particular with regard to the Sterpenich crossing, the deadline for this project is relatively short, since it is dependent on the possibility of financing the work through a European fund, implying that it will be carried out before 2024. Many steps still need to be taken in order to be able to give practical consideration to the execution of the work, on the understanding that I am not responsible for the roadworks to which you referred. However, to date, I must note that no agreement has yet been reached on this matter. In order to respond to stakeholders' requests, Infrabel – the infrastructure manager – presented four different pre-projects, taking into account site characteristics, time frames and available budgets. A popular consultation was also held. At this stage, however, no consensus has yet been reached. For my part, I asked Infrabel to contact the commune again, in order to be able to find solutions quickly. Infrabel is fully prepared to consider the various possible solutions in a constructive manner, taking into account the elements I have just outlined to you. In any case, I will remain attentive to the need for dialogue between all parties, with respect for each other and in the search for the most positive solutions. A change is scheduled on site. I think it is useful and necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u62	Minister, I fully agree with you that, in any case, and in general, the closure of a crossing has many advantages in terms of both the safety and punctuality of trains. I am pleased to hear that, in this and other cases, you and Infrabel favour dialogue not only with the municipal authorities, but also with the residents concerned by the measures. I have taken note of the four preliminary projects proposed by Infrabel, none of which are unanimous. It will then be necessary for the local authorities, after hearing the residents, to take their responsibilities and make a final decision. I hear the difficulty of timing since European funds and financial aid are at stake under strict deadlines. Finally, I am pleased to hear that you are and remain attentive to all possible solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u63	Mr Parent, as Minister responsible for Mobility, I am determined to act today to reduce the environmental costs of our journeys tomorrow. My priorities are, in order, to avoid unnecessary (avoid) movements, to organise the modal shift to the least polluting modes of transport such as the shift, to improve existing means of transport from the point of view of pollution and CO2 emissions (improvous). It is within this last priority that the tax and parafiscal regulations on corporate cars have recently evolved, as you mentioned in your question. The aim is to redirect the choice of type of company cars to carbon-free cars by 2026. In this context, in terms of evaluation, the government will actually carry out an exercise that will go beyond the budgetary aspects alone. Thus the Federal Office of the Plan is currently working on the macroeconomic impact of the reform but also, in collaboration with my administration, the Mobility FPS, on the impact, number and nature of company cars. For the surplus, my colleagues in charge of Finance and Social Affairs have completed the average tax and parafiscal treatment of company cars and related indirect taxes, each in its area of competence. I therefore refer you to them for any further questions on the impact on public finances. Finally, as announced in the introduction, my priority is to promote modal shift by increasing the use of the train and all active modes of travel. During the entire pandemic, often under difficult conditions, the railway workers, as you know, have ensured, and I know that you thank them for this, the continuity of train services. In collaboration with other public transport operators, SNCB has also launched a campaign to encourage passengers to take the train. In addition, SNCB is in the process of launching new, more flexible subscription schemes to be offered to companies in order to best meet the new needs associated with the significant development of teleworking and the alternation between teleworking days and days of attendance at the office. I am also negotiating, within the framework of the future public service contract, by the end of the year, a path of strengthening supply for the next ten years, in addition to what has already been achieved under the current transport plans. The social partners will, of course, be consulted via, at a minimum, their participation in the Advisory Committee for Railway Travellers. In addition, as you know, the federal government has mobilized the Mobility budget to facilitate the lives of workers through an offer of à la carte transportation. This modernisation is based on three axes. First of all, the Mobility budget puts in place active travel modes with the objective of facilitating walking or cycling, better for the health and well-being of workers, by making it possible, for example, to subscribe to a loan for the direct purchase of a bike, to rent a bike box space or to fully equip oneself for greater safety, including non-mandatory equipment such as helmets or fluo vests. Secondly, the housing costs covered by the Mobility budget are extended to limit travel through accommodation close to the workplace – for example, by allowing repayment of bank interest and loan capital from a mortgage loan through the Mobility budget for a home close to the employee's workplace (up to 10 km from the workplace). Finally, the Mobility budget is accessible to the worker, but also to his family, for more sustainable travel for all. I hope that with these measures we will be able to attract more workers to the Mobility budget instead of the pay car or in addition to a car smaller than at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u64	Minister, thank you. Indeed, I have already asked your colleague Mr. Van Peteghem on the budgetary impact of the reforms that have been undertaken. Thank you for completing the information and, like your colleague, for highlighting the work that has been done through the Federal Planning Office on the macro-economic impact of the reforms we are carrying out. I think it is important to have a monitoring because the trends in mobility, in the wake of the health crisis, are not good. So we must also be able to measure whether the reforms we have undertaken – they are there, you have reminded us – are in line with our strategy and the direction we are taking. To follow, since this tool remains to be realized, but in any case, it is a good point and thanks for having recalled all the advantages regarding the Mobility budget. I still have to question Mr Dermagne, Minister for the Economy, to see how he will be popularised with companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u65	In times of telework and many vacant office buildings, especially in Brussels, SNCB invests heavily in a new majestic office complex of 236 meters long and 60 meters high. SNCB's new headquarters at the South Station, including hotel, will be one of the largest construction projects in the coming years. But the resistance of the neighbors is great. The construction of the new volume fits into a real estate deal whereby the consortium BESIX and Immobel build the new seat in exchange for parcels owned by SNCB, especially on the Anderlecht side of the station. We don't need that huge new project. Think of the station of Bergen, where millions of taxpayers' money were thrown overboard. In our view, so many new offices are not justified, given the negative impact on the neighbourhood. Part of the new space in the mail sorting centre will in fact be rented out to external private players. This is clearly a back room deal, which will only benefit the big developers. What is the exact content of the deal between SNCB and the consortium? Can we access that agreement, or is it classified? Is transparency guaranteed? What do you think of the deal? How do you justify that colossal project? Can SNCB objectively justify its real need? How much office space does SNCB need? Why is the project split into a hotel, a mail sorting centre and the four-block privatisation deal, accounting for 150,000 m2? What will be the total cost of the project? How are the costs distributed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u66	Minister, I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u67	The decision in principle concerning the construction project of a new headquarters for SNCB was taken in the past. The SNCB issued that call for tender in 2017. No final decision has yet been taken on the precise implementation of the project, especially since the project does not have a licence from the Brussels Region. It is true that since the start of the corona crisis, workshop needs have changed. Everyone, including SNCB, must take account of the evolution towards more teleworking in their plans. At the same time, every worker must be able to work in good working conditions, including rail workers, who must be able to cooperate efficiently at the service of the traveller, not more, but also not less, because those staff make the trains run.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u68	Mr Minister, I haven't gotten much better. Of course, staff are entitled to a good workplace and to work in good working conditions. We are certainly in favour of this. The question, however, concerns the need to develop such a large project. It reminds me of the Arsenal site in Ghent, a file in which SNCB has chosen the most profitable. I wonder whether this can also apply to the new headquarters. I think there are more important projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u69	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u70	Mr President, Minister, as you have seen, as from 1 March at our French neighbours, car manufacturers will have to incorporate a message of awareness of the other means of transport. This is a first step in the wake of the Climate Conference which involved citizens; another is planned from 2028 onwards, namely that advertising in favour of the sale of the most polluting vehicles will be prohibited, in order to accompany the measures that are being taken to reduce the sale of this type of vehicle in view of the environmental objectives laid down in the Paris Agreements. In Belgium, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the Higher Council for Health and the Central Council for the Economy have recommended since 2018 that citizens be properly informed about fuel and CO2 consumption, on the basis of the proposals of the European Commission, in particular via CO2 labels incorporating a colour code scale allowing citizens to make an informed choice when buying a new vehicle. On this subject, on which I think you have already had the opportunity to speak in the press, what do you think of these new obligations and prospects for our French neighbours? In view of the requests of the associations and councils I mentioned, do you also plead for the revision of the Royal Decree on the provision of information on fuel consumption and CO2 emissions? From a pedagogical point of view, what other channels have you planned to push Belgians towards greener mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u71	Mr Parent, as you know, as Minister for Mobility, I would like to promote alternatives to private cars, certainly to the larger ones, in the face of this trend towards increasingly heavy, more energy-intensive and more dangerous vehicles for other users. Several speakers, of which I think you are, are working on the concept of Lisa Cars, lighter and more secure cars. These are initiatives that I share and we will certainly have an opportunity to discuss them in the near future. I had the opportunity to participate in a symposium organised, among others, by Inter-Environnement Wallonie on the subject. The measures taken by France oblige manufacturers on the one hand to carry out advertisements aimed at making the public aware of other means of transport which are more environmentally friendly and on the other hand prohibit them from making any advertising in favour of the sale or purchase of the most polluting vehicles. I think these are two interesting ideas and I have already been able to talk about them with the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. Any action to provide the best information to the consumer must be considered with my colleagues, the Minister of Economy, Mr Dermagne and the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, Mrs De Bleeker, both responsible for advertising, as well as with the Minister of the Environment for information on fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. I can only invite you to question them on the subject. In addition to better information to the consumer, I want to make mobility a freedom so that everyone can choose the most suitable mode of transport for their journey. In 2022, I will continue to strengthen the rail supply, in order to make the train the backbone of mobility in Belgium. I also work to promote intermodality in trains and railway stations, for example. In addition to increasing the number of bicycle parking spaces and parking spaces, SNCB is developing an application that will make it possible to better inform passengers about bicycle seats on trains. All this is part of the bike + train plan that we developed with SNCB and the first federal bike strategy. Since 1 January this year, together with my colleague the Minister of Finance, we have already, as I have just said, been able to develop the mobility budget in order to make it more visible and more attractive. With these adjustments, I hope we have given a clear boost to enlargement, to the accessibility of the mobility budget for all, and of course I want to go even further. The mobility budget must evolve over time. Today, mobility must be seen as a service or a good and, finally, it must be seen as multiple – multimodality – and thus self-directed on steps in line with our societies that promote freer and more sustainable travel for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u72	Thank you, Minister. I obviously trust you in the modal shift and in the strengthening of the offer. As you pointed out, there are also future battles that will have to be won, especially in relation to the type of vehicle. We need to move towards lighter, more fuel-efficient cars. However, I think that at the level of advertising, we must continue to question because – we feel it – technological developments are there, the caps are fixed by the governments, but the automotive industry is throwing its last strength into the battle to promote the most polluting vehicles today: 42% of the advertising budgets for vehicles are devoted to the most polluting SUVs. This is a sign that the system is coming to an end and that the automotive industry is trying to gain what it can from current developments. So this is a case to follow with your colleagues, as you mentioned. However, I also count on your strong support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u73	Citizens are asking for more flexibility in their mobility, as can be seen, for example, from the Mobility budget. In concrete terms, the Flex subscription will be offered in the form of a digital travel book on an annual (80 or 120 days) or monthly (6 or 10 days). After using these days, the customer buys a new notebook. The choice of days of travel is therefore totally free within the period of one or twelve months. SNCB informs me that the Flex subscription will be offered only through its application, for various reasons. A Flex subscription requires a significant change in passenger behaviour compared to the current full time subscription, which does not require activation. The Flex subscription must be validated every journey or day. Monitoring by the attendant must be simple in order to avoid fraud, discussion, aggression and related problems. The use of the SNCB application is the only digital option possible at this stage, given the absence of validators at SNCB, thus making it impossible to use the Mobib card for the validation of journeys. The potential target of Flex subscription is only a professional population, for which the mobile penetration rate is very high or even total. The digital solution is accepted and even recommended by customers interviewed during the pre-surveys conducted by SNCB. Digital can be used to meet the needs of companies because it offers the advantage of a simplified administration, particularly in terms of reporting, managing the mobility budget or other benefits to workers. In addition, with regard to parking tickets, it will be necessary to integrate parking solutions for cars and bicycles in order to optimize the door-to-door journey of customers. Various options are currently under consideration. SNCB informs me that it aims to launch this Flex subscription offer initially for companies (B2B) by the end of the second quarter of 2022 or at the beginning of September. SNCB still needs to refine its mobile application to allow seamless integration of Flex subscription. I have, of course, stressed to SNCB the importance of working on the rapid launch of the Flex subscription in order to support all the commitments made so far in favour of commuters. As Minister of Mobility, I want to make the choice of sustainable modes such as the train as easy and attractive as possible. An extended and flexible train offer must be an asset in this direction, because fewer people in traffic jams and more people in trains are good for our health, for the economy and for the climate, but I must not convince you, Mr Parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u74	Minister, as far as your answer is concerned, I welcome the fact that the issue of parking and cycling can be included. These are facilities that are necessary to enhance the attractiveness of this Flex-abo. I therefore hope that the formula will be as attractive as possible and that it will allow us to attract people who have fallen behind rail but also a new audience. This is the objective that we may wish to see this flex subscription achieved. I hear technical difficulties with the validation of the Mobib card. I have no doubt that the SNCB and its teams analysed this file during the first test phase, as you recalled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u75	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u76	Mr Van den Bergh, as you know, I think it is important that the train is an accessible transport model, especially for our young people and students. Of course, tariffs play an important role in this. The age limit for student subscriptions is set out in the current management agreement dated 2008. Students up to and including 25 years of age can benefit from the student rates of SNCB. For example, this is a year longer than the school or student passes of other regional transport companies. When the young person reaches the age of 26, he or she may use a journey pass or other transport ticket. The age limit for school rates is a general rule also applied by regional transport companies and by foreign railway companies. The age limit shall be determined taking into account normal continuous training at a university or a university of higher education. Discussions on a possible change to this scheme are taking place in the context of the negotiations on the public service contract between SNCB and the Belgian State, without me being able to elaborate on this now. As far as the figures you asked are concerned, these are commercially sensitive data which SNCB does not wish to communicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u77	Mr Minister, first of all about your last answer, it is a classic reference to commercially sensitive information. I would therefore like to stress that this is an important element in the discussion of the public service contract. If SNCB is granted a monopoly by the government to allow trains to run for ten years in our country, I believe that this information can and may be open. The government expects SNCB to take care of certain matters. There's a price on that. I therefore believe that the necessary openness should exist. There is therefore little commercial sensitivity when we grant a monopoly, I think. But maybe I'm suggesting it too simplistic. The essence of my question was about student subscriptions. Mr Minister, I know that all transport companies do so today, both in our country and in other countries. But I believe that the time that students studied up to their 21, 23 or 25 years is so slowly behind us. There are plenty of young people who start working at the age of 18 and go back to studying or applying other forms of lifelong learning after a few years. So I think we should consider this after all. Students must, of course, have a student card, study full-time and not work at the same time. Such conditions could be linked to the student subscription in exchange for the abolition of the age limit. That could help a lot of students, I think. It could encourage young people who have started working at the age of 18 to start a new study after a few years. That could be a good incentive. You referred to the discussions between the FPS and SNCB regarding public service contracts. I understand that there is little you can say about the negotiations under way. But you haven't really made a statement about how you see it as a policymaker and as a responsible minister. I had hoped for a little more commitment there. I'm sure we'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u78	Mr Minister, in November 2020, we read in the policy papers that this government had the ambition to eventually monitor one in three motorists every year for speeding offences, alcohol and drug use, wearing the seat belt and using mobile phones behind the wheel. A year later, we could only read that we wanted to increase the frequency of roadside checks. So it was much less concrete. What is the specific level of traffic control envisaged by this government? Is that still checking one out of three drivers every year? If so, by when will this be the case? If not, why not? How is the number of traffic checks carried out mapped out? Does this concern only physical checks carried out by the police or does facts established by manned and/or unmanned cameras also count as traffic checks carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u79	Mr Toventos, road safety is a top priority for me. That is why, together with my colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department, I developed the first Federal Road Safety Plan in October 2021. The government agreement provides that one out of every three drivers must be monitored annually for the different risk behaviours in traffic. This objective remains unchanged and has therefore been incorporated into this Federal Road Safety Plan. For more detailed information, in particular on the timing of achieving this objective, please contact my colleague Mr Verlinden, the Minister for the Interior. The same applies to statistics on traffic checks carried out by means of standing positions and cameras, which I do not have as Minister of Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u80	Minister, you started by saying that it is an absolute top priority for you, and then, with regard to timing, I must ask the Minister of the Interior. That seems strange to me. I have asked the Minister of the Interior about a number of issues, including the degree of control of traffic controls. I care when I hear people want to check one out of three. I do not know what all counts, but I can only observe that your colleague from the Interior replied to me that there is no data available on the total number of traffic checks carried out, with the exception of the number of controlled drivers on the DUI during the PDO campaigns. How will that be measured? Your colleague from the Interior says that no information is available on this matter. I understand it's a priority, but I have to ask somewhere else.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55024172C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u82	Minister, at the time of the break-up of the SNCB Group in SNCB and Infrabel, the historic railway debt of the SNCB Group amounted to EUR 4 billion. According to the annual accounts of 2020, SNCB's debt totalled EUR 2,363 billion and to Infrabel EUR 4,581 billion. Under the previous government, in which the N-VA was also a partner, it was decided to freeze historical debt building in order to de facto go to a net reduction of rail debt. The current context has, of course, changed. Mr President, how has the fault of SNCB and Infrabel evolved in recent years? Are there any additional debts in the coming years or are you opting, as I would prefer, to keep the debt constant and not allow it to continue to thicken? You have introduced a number of extensions in SNCB's offer. There's still a lot on the schedule and most of those plans aren't cost-effective. Do you think it is justified to increase losses and increase debt? What course do you propose in the coming years of this legislature with regard to debt mountains? At present, interest rates are very low. The loss of interest can be a good opportunity for an accelerated phasing-out of rail debt. Does this option also form part of your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u83	Mr Roggeman, the federal government has clearly chosen to invest in the railways from the outset with the aim of turning the railways into the backbone of our mobility. This is a choice for more trains, fewer trucks and fewer aircraft. Debts are necessary, but investments obviously do not stand in the way of efficiency. On the contrary, efficient use of resources is important, as SNCB and Infrabel provide a public service. That is why it is my wish and that of the railway companies to do more with the investment in rail, such as a wider range of train journeys, so that more people choose the train instead of the car. Thus, the profitability is also indirectly increased. In addition, I repeat that, according to a calculation by Deloitte, an investment of EUR 1 in the rail sector will bring EUR 3 for our economy. Think of the revenues generated by reducing the negative impact and the costs of the many traffic jams, especially 4.5 billion per year according to VBO and FEBIAC. We are only talking about the economic costs of traffic jams and not about all other direct and indirect costs. Finally, I too believe that a sound financial situation for railway companies is important. Thanks to significant productivity improvements and the growth of rail traffic, both SNCB and Infrabel have seen a global trend of debt decline in recent years, as you will see in the table I will forward to you. They are therefore doing their best to reduce the debt. Their business plans therefore seek to strike a financial balance, so that debt continues to fall. Moreover, an increase in supply must not be viewed in isolation, but must always be seen in the overall context of an increase in the efficiency and optimisation of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u84	Minister, I cannot tell from your answer whether the debt will rise or fall. When I hear your responsibility, I fear for the first. When you say that debts are necessary for the realisation of your policy, you will again increase the debt burden and deepen the debt well. As a result, you will reduce the profitability of the supply, realise additional loss-making offers and hang a millstone around the neck of SNCB and any future supply. Your policy focuses on the short term: more supply now, less in the future. The statement that 1 euro of investment will yield 3 euros has recently been verified. I have remembered that this is true on the condition that the supply is profitable, so if it effectively meets a transport demand. But as you say, that is not the case for your policy. You realize a supply-driven model, which does not necessarily increase profitability. It can therefore be closer to the truth for loss-making lines that 1 euro extra investment costs 2 euro instead of 3 euro, if this does not result in demand. In any case, I think it is a wrong choice to incur additional debts. It means a reduction in the supply of SNCB in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u85	Minister, I refer to an incident of 19 January. Everyone has read in the press that a student in the evening has become the victim of harassment by drunken men on the train connection from Diest to Brussels. She spent the whole time locked up in a car where she couldn't leave, until after almost 45 minutes she was able to flee to the car where the conductor was. What measures has the Minister taken to promote safety on the train, at the stations and on the platforms following this incident? Has the Minister had contact and consultation with SNCB in this area? If so, what were the contents and results? What additional measures has SNCB taken in response to this incident? What action has SNCB taken towards the victim?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u86	Mr Minister, I do not want to make it a habit of questioning you about issues in connection with specific incidents, because they are slightly anecdotal. The one witnessed on Friday 21 January by the Brussels student Romi, in particular an incident on an evening train between Diest and Brussels, was not a pleasant story for the person concerned. She was harassed by several men and had to look for train crews. I found it particularly striking that a lot of other people responded to this by saying that it was a recognizable situation. Especially women said they didn't feel safe on the train. SNCB responded by saying that passengers can always contact train staff. Of course, on an evening train those people are not sown thickly. Travellers can also call the free number of Securail. In this respect, last year I proposed to you that, following the example of the Dutch Railways, it be possible for passengers to report urgent cases or acute situations via SMS or whatsapps, when they feel unsafe. This can be done in the Netherlands since April last year. For a traveler who is being harassed or feels unsafe, it is not obvious to call. Then it's easier to send a message. You replied that you would look at this project more thoroughly, but also that you thought it was an interesting slope. Have you studied the system with whatsapps and text messages at the Dutch Railways? Can this also be introduced by SNCB? Is it an option to start this by means of a pilot project? Can you give me figures on the evolution of the number of notifications via Securail's 0800/30230? In how many cases did these reports give rise to direct support?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u87	Any form of violence, intimidation or harassment of passengers, train crew or Securail personnel is unacceptable. The incident to which you refer is the reflection of a social problem which unfortunately also occurs on our public transport. Violence on public transport is a social problem that has increased with the corona crisis, but it remains unacceptable. SNCB reiterates the measures it takes to promote the safety of its customers on the train, in the stations and on the platforms, namely the emergency number of Securail available 24/7, the role of the train escort, additional patrols of Securail deployed on certain early and late trains or lines and the role of the cameras on board the new equipment, the M7 and the Desiros. The SNCB and I are working hard on a structural solution, the reform of the circular with Mrs Verlinden, the reorganisation of Securail with additional recruitment of agents, an accurate analysis of the suitability of Securail's powers, a prevention campaign with registration and follow-up of complaints and so on. That's not nothing. My cabinet is closely monitoring the situation with SNCB, in consultation with the other public transport companies, which face exactly the same problems. My cabinet again met SNCB on this matter last Friday in order to evaluate the possibility of additional measures currently under study. Furthermore, the digitisation of tools remains a priority for the government and SNCB. The future public service contract will ensure that digitisation continues to reflect in SNCB's social security policy. SNCB is in contact with its foreign partners to see how best to respond to emergency calls that are difficult to make orally. To this end, SNCB has started a process of replacing its digital call management platform with the Security Operations Center. It has already been decided that the future platform should be able to receive emergency calls via SMS and whatsapps. This functionality will be developed as a matter of priority, but the technological process is extensive and complex and the platform will not be operational for another year. However, the decision of principle has been taken. It is not technically possible to plan a pilot project without using the platform, but it is clear that the effectiveness of the device will be evaluated. In the meantime, SNCB will show its emergency number 0800/303 more often, including on trains, in order to give the best possible publicity. The answer to this social problem is not a miracle solution, but action will have to be taken at different levels, from sensitisation and prevention to sanctioning. I can assure you that we are doing everything we can to keep up with the situation, to ensure optimum safety for passengers and for all railway staff. After all, I want more trains and more passengers, and for that everyone must be able to travel quietly and safely, so that mobility means real freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u88	Minister, this is indeed a social problem which also arises on the track. However, it can eliminate all efforts to make the track attractive and to achieve a modal shift. So I am pleased that there is consultation and that digital platforms are being developed, but it must not be limited to announcements. That doesn't help the train passengers or the staff. We hope that structural measures will be rolled out quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u89	I am very pleased that, in a year's time, SNCB's new security platform will allow emergency calls to be sent via whatsapps or SMS. However, I had asked a second question about the number of reports on Securail's telephone number. I didn't hear that, or you didn't mention numbers? Can you still deliver it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u90	Those figures will be given to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u91	Colleagues, Infrabel takes all questions, suggestions and complaints from local residents for all shipyards in Belgium very seriously and closely follows them up with those responsible for the yard. This is, of course, also the case in this dossier, for which Infrabel has had regular contacts in recent weeks. Infrabel Customer Care received a complaint from a local resident about this file. Infrabel's press service was also questioned, while the Public Affairs service was contacted by the Space Service of the city of Hasselt. All these requests shall be processed in accordance with the applicable processes. I can tell you that the work on the switch was carried out at the time of the increase in the railway bridge over the Albert Canal in Kuringen. In recent years, Infrabel has had to adapt the rail infrastructure in the area around the bridge as the new bridge of the Flemish Waterway is two metres higher than the former bridge. The new interconnection at the Paalsteenstraat ensures a smoother flow of train traffic, both for passenger and freight trains, from Hasselt, Kiewit, Zonhoven and vice versa, and also towards Genk. The exchange connection is therefore better for the operation of train traffic and is also further analysed from this point of view by Infrabel's engineers. Several checks and action have already been carried out at different times to identify the state of exchange in response to local complaints. It is also planned that measurements will take place at the beginning of March. A specific date has not yet been set. The local residents concerned have already been informed of this and are further informed, like the city of Hasselt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I take it from your answer that the exchange will therefore remain there for better operation and flow of trains. For the rest, checks have been carried out and measurements will be carried out from March onwards. Those people have been living with noise and vibration in their homes for a long time and measurements will only be made within a few weeks. I find it strange that this should take so long, but I will pass on the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're referring to a local citizen's complaint, but there are more than one. Infrabel is in contact with them, as is the city of Hasselt. That's good to hear. I have also heard, but we already knew that the flow of train traffic is much easier thanks to this new change. This is of course important, but it must be in balance with the quality of life of the neighborhood. You announced that a number of measurements will be made after the checks have been carried out. We can assume that today it is technically possible to solve such a problem, and I would ask you to speed it up. After all, the quality of life is not enough today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u94	Mr President, I refer to the question put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u95	Mr Toventors, as you know, SNCB always consults with local authorities about its parking strategy, including in Tongeren. The most recent consultations took place on 18 January 2022. On Monday 17 January 2022, at the station of Tongeren, works were started on the construction of an emergency car park for 160 cars and a covered bicycle shed for 120 regular and 10 out-of-size bicycles. The car park will be built on the former freight courier of SNCB and will also be equipped with charging capacity for electric cars. The end of the works is foreseen before the end of June 2022. From then on, the parking lot will be equipped with access control. The exact date on which this parking is paid for remains to be decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u96	Minister, you say that the exact date on which the parking is paid has yet to be decided. Well, then I'm assuming he's actually gonna be paying. All right, I'll follow up further on the basis of the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u97	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u98	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 586, published in the Bulletin of Written Questions and Answers. As regards your follow-up question, I refer to my answer to a question on the same subject by Mrs Vindevoghel in the Mobility Committee on 18 January 2022. I answered that question extensively at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u99	Mr Minister, I have indeed already submitted several written questions on this subject and have received answers, but not all my questions have been answered. That explains my additional questions. I will look at this again and submit another written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u100	Minister, here we have only reasonable colleagues who refer to their questions as tabled. What really matters is the answers and the exchange that follows.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to explain in detail the circumstances that SNCB and Infrabel are experiencing, as are all those involved in economic, social and school life. A large number of patients or quarantined people make that we have, in a preventive and temporary way, adapted the offer of trains to avoid last-minute cancellations that are never comfortable. We had the opportunity to discuss another point. The aim, of course, is to get the trains back on track as quickly as possible. Due to the evolution of the pandemic, SNCB, like all other sectors of the economy, is currently faced with staff absent from sickness or in quarantine at home. I would like to wish all those affected a great deal of improvement and hope that they can come back rested, so that they can be fit at the helm. SNCB informs me of the following. Absences involve the temporary and planned suspension of the supply of trains of about 6.5%, since Wednesday 26 January. SNCB wishes to minimize inconvenience to its passengers by temporarily adapting its offer and thus avoid that every day trains should not be removed unexpectedly at the last minute. Particular attention has been paid to keeping trains mostly frequented by students and students. That sounds good to me. A return to the full offer will be made as soon as possible. We follow the situation day by day according to the evolution of the figures relating to cases of disease or quarantine. This temporary reduction in the supply of trains is intended to ensure that passengers can continue to benefit from a clear and predictable offer that meets their mobility needs. SNCB will also strengthen the train composition of the existing offer, where necessary and possible, in order to ensure the comfort of its customers. They find all the information on SNCB's travel planner useful. In concrete terms, one of the four IC trains per hour between Antwerp and Brussels was suspended on weekdays. The IC trains between Bergen and Aulnoye and between Namur, Charleroi and Maubeuge are temporarily suspended, both during the week and at the weekend. Travelers to France travel best via Lille/Lille. In addition, a number of suburban train connections, i.e. S-trains, are temporarily suspended or modified. For example, the S7 Halle-Vilvoorde and the S9 Countries-Brussels-Schuman-Eigenbramel are suspended, except for an S9 in the morning from Landen to ensure commuting. In the region around Antwerp, the S32, the connection Puurs-Antwerp-Essen-Roosendaal, switches to a train every hour instead of every half hour. Before and after school time, a second train per hour is kept between Puurs and Antwerp, each in both directions. Mr Parent, the S42 Flémalle-Haute-Liège-Liers, in the region of Liège, is also suspended, with the exception of two trains, one in each direction, in the morning for the traffic allowing to reach the school. But it's temporary, I'll tell you again. In the region of Ghent, the S53 train connection between Gent-Sint-Pieters and Lokeren is suspended. The Beervelde station is operated by an additional stop of the IC train between Ostend and Antwerp. In the Charleroi region, Mr. Arens, the S61 between Charleroi, Namur and Jambes, passes by one train per hour instead of every half hour before and after school hours. However, a second train is maintained. Finally, a number of trains at peak hours are suspended. This concerns two S63 trains between Charleroi-Sud and Erquelinnes, one in each direction, two P trains between Ostend and Brussels, one in each direction, and one P train in the evening between Brussels-Midi and Visé. I am very close to the situation with SNCB, which continues to take the necessary steps to ensure that trains are not cancelled unexpectedly, that these suspensions are as temporary as possible and that all the information is available to passengers in a timely manner. In exceptional circumstances, exceptional response! These measures will be as temporary as possible. Everybody's doing their best, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u102	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. That everyone does their best, that would still be wrong. I understand people getting sick. The extension of the new transport plan and the addition of a number of journeys were unfolding, but I note that, in the short term, there had to be two cuts in the supply of staff. I can understand that, but as I said earlier when I was talking about the student Romi, can we not offer compensation or make a gesture to the disabled travellers? These people pay a subscription but do not receive the service they paid for. I would ask you to take this with you to the consultation with the management of SNCB, to see if anything can be done in such cases. Even normal recognition would be nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u103	Minister, thank you for your answer. While I stress this very much, I understand very well that in a pandemic situation it is not easy to act otherwise. I am also very pleased to see that you yourself insist that the trains should be put back on track as soon as possible. I would not want this temporary situation to eventually become in some less frequented places – I am always afraid of these less frequented places – permanent situations. I therefore ask you to pay close attention to this situation because we will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u104	Minister, thank you for the thoroughness of your answer. While it was true that we had had this kind of debate before, I was concerned about deleting certain lines, which was why I thought it was necessary to ask you about the subject. Thank you for the clarifications you have provided, in particular with regard to the S42 line, which provides the school hours service. I think this is a good thing, and it shows the ability to adapt in a context that we hope to get out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u105	Prime Minister, I have a follow-up question concerning the adaptation of our rail lines to climate change. This causes extreme weather conditions, such as floods at the beginning of last summer caused unprecedented material damage and human suffering, and the Belgian rail network was not spared either. As a result, in a written question, I asked you to list the plans to create the railway lines and climate robotics. For the 2016 National Climate Adaptation Plan, Infrabel had to frame railway lines in flood-sensitive areas and the network's vulnerable points. In the answer to that written question, it was noted that, according to an international study, Infrabel has indeed identified the vulnerabilities of its network, but not yet specifically the railway lines in a flood-sensitive area. In addition, there is currently no further plan of action. What measures are needed to make our network more robust? Hence this follow-up question: why did Infrabel not complete the assignment as described in the National Climate Adaptation Plan? Will you order this study to be carried out? How will Infrabel proceed with the conclusions of the study? Will work be done on an action plan that also addresses the vulnerabilities that have been identified, so that our infrastructure manager is better armed against possible future climate disasters?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u106	Mrs Buyst, I take advantage of your question to congratulate the Infrabel teams once again who have done remarkable work following the floods this summer. Not all transport infrastructure has had the chance to be restored so quickly. Last year's disaster, particularly in Wallonia, is yet another confirmation of the urgency of taking all the necessary measures to combat climate change. In the light of their role and responsibility, infrabel and SNCB have an exemplary role to play in this, which I naturally support as Minister and to which I would like to give all the necessary impetus. The actions included in the previous National Climate Adaptation Plan (2016-2020) were launched by Infrabel as described in the answers to your parliamentary question No. 706. It is indeed the intention that the contract should be carried out in full. Further concreteisation will require additional information, such as digitised maps of flood-sensitive areas, which will be drawn up in the coming months in consultation with a network of external partners. Among other things, the RMI produced climate forecasts for Belgium up to 2100 last year. That information will allow the technical specification of the railway infrastructure elements to be optimised. Infrabel already has summer, autumn and winter plans containing an overview of the measures taken to reduce and prevent the impact of extreme weather-related phenomena. Let me give you an example: if there is a heat wave, the repair capacity will be increased tenfold and the night and weekend shifts will be strengthened to act quickly and effectively in the event of problems with the tracks and overhead lines. In addition, a complete cartography of the sensitive area of the railway infrastructure is useful. This is a transversal measure, involving, in addition to Infrabel, many regional and/or local authorities, services and knowledge institutions. This is part of the new National Climate Adaptation Plan. As I said, I will support Infrabel in its efforts to best anticipate the effects of climate change, whether floods, cold or heat waves. We cannot be prepared enough for this, all the more so because the consequences become more intense every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u107	Minister, I would like to join in thanking the teams who have done incredible work right after the floods. One can be surprised by natural violence, but it is important to make the railways more robust so that they can better withstand heat waves and flooding. You say that additional teams are being deployed in a heat wave and that we are looking at even better mapping of the flood-sensitive areas, which is certainly important. But prevention is better than cure. I therefore hope that, in addition to mapping and deploying teams when necessary, sufficient thought will also be given to how we can better adapt the railways to climate change.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u108	Mrs Buyst, SNCB has provided me with the following information on this infrastructure file. At the beginning of December, Infrabel obtained the environmental permit for the Old Countries project. Until the end of January, objections could be lodged against the licence with the Council for Authorisations Disputes. To date, we have already heard of one appeal against the licence. The start of the construction of the uneven crossroads of Old Countries will depend on the further procedural progress. Only some preparatory works and the renewal of the Statiënstraat bridge will start in the short term. The estimated cost is EUR 150 million, taking into account the additional mitigation measures and conditions imposed in the authorisation. The current MIP 2022-2024 does not provide for a balance to be financed, given the availability of the budget foreseen in the multiannual strategic investment programme. The authorized project 'Unequalground crossing of Old Countries' only means that when a second rail access is built, the crossing of the high-speed line and the E19 will take place above ground. Further on, from Merksem, the second rail access will be organized completely underground. The underground variants in Ekeren have been studied and explained in detail in recent years, in consultation with the various stakeholders. The various variants were thoroughly examined, both in the technical field, in terms of planning, phasing and budget as well as in terms of mobility and environmental impact and impact on the environment. The undertunnel from the Kloosterstraat would not only have a large additional price, but if this variant were chosen, the second port rail access would also have to be carried out immediately to Lier, for which no budget is now foreseen in the SMIP. On the basis of these investigations, the Flemish government chose the above-ground variants in Ekeren in December 2018. Following the public investigation, the government decided on 28 June 2019 to permanently restore the regional spatial implementation plan 'Spoorweginfrastructure and nature park Oude Landen te Ekeren'. Indeed, SMIP today provides for the re-launch of the study of this second rail access. The procedure according to the integrated plan EIA will start in the course of this year. A specifications for the designation of an EIA are currently in preparation. For this study, a budget of EUR 2 million is foreseen in the SMIP.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u109	Thank you, Minister, for the very specific answer. This dossier is very important and it lives very much in the region. Just because we have to give all the opportunities to strengthen rail freight transport, a second port opening for Antwerp is crucial. I hope that this can be achieved in the coming years, but our group believes it is very important that this is done in the best possible balance with the environment. We therefore consider it important to listen to the sighs of the people around us. I have heard that part of the decision was taken to go unevenly, but that does not yet give any conclusion on the follow-up to the project. I look forward to the continuation of this dossier, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u110	Mr President, Minister, this is perhaps a slightly more anecdotal story, since it is happening on Grand-Ducal territory and you can certainly do nothing about it. You will probably have learned that at the end of January, a commuter from Marbehan to Luxembourg was fined 300 euros for having removed her mask for eating a biscuit, which does not happen when you take the train to Belgium. Interpelled by the sanction, the traveller testified of her poor experience in the press. Even if the fine may seem disproportionate from here, again you cannot do anything about it and the railways of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are entitled to enforce their law on their territory, including on a Belgian train. However, in order to bring the matter back into your jurisdiction, would it not be appropriate, in order to avoid this kind of misadventure which has cost our commuter dearly, to better inform travellers and cross-border commuters? Covid-related regulations change from country to country and from month to month, and it is often difficult to find them. Mr Minister, do you confirm the legitimacy of the sanction imposed by the Luxembourg railways? Is better information for travellers envisaged? This could be done via signaling on trains, using an information message in the application, a micro ad, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u111	Mr Vajda, as you said, we have not yet annexed the Grand Duchy, and I do not wish it. I have excellent relations with my colleague François Bausch, but it is a country that is autonomously developing its policy on mobility and train control on its territory. Of course, I regret the poor experience of this traveller and I hope that it will not discourage her from taking the train in the future, or the people who have read her misadventure. This fine was handed down by Luxembourg customs officials – if I am well informed – who are responsible for monitoring compliance with the law, also on board trains. The agents of the Luxembourg Railways (CFL) cannot impose fines in such a case, but simply make a reminder of the measures and, in case of refusal, ask the customer to leave the train – this for your good information and according to any reservation in relation to extraterritorial circumstances. It is not for me to rule on the legitimacy of a sanction imposed by another State on its own territory. Regardless of the starting railway undertaking, any cross-border passenger must comply with the laws of the country crossed as soon as the train crosses the border. I confirm that, as in Belgium, the wearing of the mask is compulsory on trains operating on Luxembourg territory. However, in our country, unlike the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the mask can exceptionally be removed for food and drink. In the area of communication to passengers, visuals intended to recall the health safety measures are present at the station and on the screens of trains. The main measures such as the requirement to wear the mask are also recalled by the personnel on board the trains. Being like me a regular user of our trains, you will certainly have been able to see that already. I have asked SNCB to make sure that it communicates clearly on all health enforcement measures on its trains, on cross-border trains and at stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u112	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have not heard of any new misadventures of this kind in the territory of the Grand Duchy since the end of January. I therefore assume that, since then, announcements are now made, if not previously, or are in any case made more regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u113	Question No 55024547C by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Tim Vandenput's 55024548C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u114	Mr Minister, my question concerns an important Limburgs and Hasselts dossier. The policy statement refers to the ambition to increase international connections to foreign rail networks. In the light of a possible track opening to the east, there are two options. There is the Hamont-Weert dossier, but the Hasselt-Maastricht dossier is at least equally important, where the infrastructure is almost completely intact and where it is possible for a limited budget. In February last year I interviewed you about the possible demolition plans of the strategically important Maasbrug in the Netherlands. That bridge over the Meuse was renovated for a lot of money. I asked you to contact the Dutch authorities immediately in order to prevent the breakdown. Meanwhile, we read in the media that they want to break down the Meuse Bridge anyway. ProRail responded to that. The decision of the scrapping application has been suspended for the time being, but this remains an incredibly important matter. If that rail bridge or line 20 were to be shut down, we'd have a big problem in the long run. Minister, what steps have you taken since my interplay with motion in February 2021 to prevent the demolition of this railway bridge? I would like to have an overview of all the contacts, consultations, meetings and exchanges that have been there. Will you take any further action to prevent the breakdown? Do you think that the demolition of the Meuse Bridge fits in with your vision of improving connections to foreign rail networks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u115	Mr Minister, ProRail, the Dutch railway manager, has plans to break down the railway bridge over the Meuse in Maastricht because it would be too low and an obstacle to the expansion of inland waterway transport. However, the destruction of the bridge has many consequences, including for our country. After all, the bridge is needed to reach the station of Maastricht from Belgium. The demolition of that bridge makes a cross-border train connection between Belgium and Dutch Limburg impossible. Are you aware of ProRail's intention? How concrete are the plans? In the meantime, we have heard in the press that the plans would be on hold, but that is no more than what they are. You have said on several occasions that you are a strong supporter of cross-border rail traffic. Do you think that the railway bridge would be best preserved? Have you already had contact with your Dutch colleagues regarding the planned demolition of the railway bridge, or are you planning to address them in order to convince them of the need for a proper opening up of the Euroregion? Will you send the file to the next Belgian-Dutch meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u116	Mr Toventors, Mr Raskin, I am aware through the press that ProRail has plans to demolish the railway bridge over the Meuse in Maastricht. ProRail has submitted an application for a scrapping permit to the city of Maastricht. This has set things in motion in the Netherlands. You have probably been able to read this in the Dutch media and may also be the reason for your questions. As you say, I am in favour of cross-border rail links. I can therefore inform you that the issue was discussed during the bilateral steering group on short-term cross-border rail transport between the Belgian and Dutch administrations, in the presence of infrastructure managers and carriers, on Monday 31 January 2022. My collaborators have checked with the Dutch administration, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, and with ProRail how the fork is on the handle and have clearly asked about the future of the bridge. At the moment, ProRail has decided to withdraw the application for the scrapping permit. On the basis of the information that will be sent to me in the coming days and weeks, I will be able to give a better picture of the file and, if necessary, I will contact my Dutch colleagues, namely Secretary of State Heijnen, responsible for rail transport, and Minister Harbers, responsible for shipping. I wrote to both directors on 20 January 2022 asking for an introductory meeting to take place in the very short term. During this consultation the joint mobility files will also be discussed for the first time, including the file of the bridge over the Meuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u117	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you on your contacts with the bilateral steering committee, once the demolition of the bridge has come to an end. If anything happens right, I'll tell you. But of course the problem is not off the table. I'm glad there's a sense of urgency. I interviewed you about this in February 2021 for a reason. The dilation is not only incredibly strategically important for Hasselt and Limburg, but also for the Kempen, Flemish Brabant and Antwerp; actually for the whole of Flanders. There is now a three-country train Aachen-Maastricht-Liège, but then one has to detour 52 km to get to Maastricht. The reason for this is the Spartacus project, which is continued in the Flemish Government's lap. Some parties ask themselves a lot of questions, but continue to support it. From the Netherlands they get the signal that that track is useless because there are already 'fast' tram buses. There it is argued that the connection is no longer useful and therefore one thinks of degradation. That is the result of the signal given by those parties in the Flemish Parliament. They're all guilty. So I can only be pleased that the degradation has been put on hold. I'm gonna insist on keeping that bridge. If it disappears, the entire region of Limburg, the Kempen, Flemish Brabant and Antwerp will become completely isolated, social, economic and social. The responsibility of the Flemish Parliament is therefore very great.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u118	I too am pleased that the Minister has already made contacts and that he has taken action. I do not want to have the debate here on mobility projects such as the Spartacustram line or the reactivation of a historic railway line. Everyone knows my opinion. We have recently discussed a motion for a resolution on this subject. We'll see what the future brings there. I would like to make a plea against the removal of that physical link which makes it impossible to make the link between the stations of the two Limburg capitals ever again. Minister, you say that you will make further contacts if necessary. I'm telling you that's necessary. I want to insist on that. You have to go back to the Netherlands as the lightning. You must be there to argue the connection between Hamont and Weert. You can save a ride by further pleading that file there at the same time. Thank you for doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u119	Mr President, Minister, SNCB – a taste for travel! For the third time this afternoon, I'll take you. You were at the Dutch border in Limburg. I'll take you back to southern Luxembourg, to the French border, to the Athus station. In this station work will take place, starting next spring and for a period of one year. It is my responsibility that the aim of this work is to modernize the wharfs and to ensure the creation of a PMR access serving both the wharves and the two neighbourhoods, currently separated by the infrastructure, through a corridor under the tracks. This work is therefore excellent news for the inclusiveness of our stations, as it aims to improve the accessibility of the station and its neighbourhoods. What more can you ask for? However, the work will also have an impact. The number of parking spaces will be reduced, and the current crossing will be moved, with the result that connections at the station will no longer be possible. Minister, as part of this work, what measures are you planning to minimize their effects? Will PMR access at the station be guaranteed during this year of work? Will it require the intervention of a third party or an agent of the SNCB? Under what terms can he be called, and within what time frame? Have you obtained any guarantees regarding the duration of the work? Could there be an impact on correspondence? Are alternatives in place? Finally, is the installation of PMR ramps in other stations, particularly in the province of Luxembourg, planned? If so, under what time frame? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u120	Mr President, Mr Vajda, the will of this government and my personal will is to make the stations of the country accessible to all, valid and less valid, as soon as possible. The goal is that by 2030, almost half of the country's stations will be independently accessible by being, for example, equipped with docks at the right height of 76 cm, which is now, as you know, the uniform height to target, to which the future rolling stock will be adapted. In order to achieve this ambition, much of the 250 million that was decided on investment in the last budget conclave was allocated to accessibility work. One of the stations benefiting from this policy is the Athus station. As I said to Mr Arens in the Committee on Mobility on 18 January, the redevelopment of the Athus site is part of the current multi-annual investment plan, financial year 2022/2023. During the period 2022 to 2024, SNCB planned the maintenance and development of the 250-seat parking lot and the installation of an access control. For the coming year, Infrabel has planned the creation of the subway corridor and access ramps for people with reduced mobility. Work to upgrade the wharfs and approaches is expected to begin mainly in 2023. Athus does not currently have a 76 cm platform accessible without a threshold or guidance line for visually impaired people. The station cannot therefore be considered to be accessible independently. The station will only meet the accessibility criteria after the work has been completed. However, all such work inevitably causes some temporary inconvenience for travellers. I want to apologize again, but we don't make omelettes without breaking eggs, it seems. In the course of such work, SNCB, in collaboration with Infrabel, works to minimize the impact for travellers. Informational signage is applied. Temporary alternative access is provided and temporary facilities are provided to ensure the safety and comfort of all users. For example, a temporary crossing of the Arlon-side wharfs has been created so that passengers can easily make their connections between SNCB Libramont-Athus-Arlon and CFL Athus-Rodange-Luxembourg trains. As of April 4, there will be only two accessible docks. The train service will therefore be adapted on weekdays to preserve some of the connections. It should be noted that the Athus railway node offers connections between the SNCB Libramont-Athus-Arlon trains and the CFL Athus-Luxembourg trains. Due to work, the correspondence from Luxembourg to Virton and Libramont will unfortunately be extended by 18 minutes; in the other direction, the correspondence is fortunately maintained. On the other hand, during several weekends, Infrabel will organize work that will require a complete cut-off of train traffic. To counter the suppression of the trains concerned, SNCB has already planned the introduction of alternative buses. A little more effort and patience for the users of the Athus station, but in the end, we will have an accessible station as it should have been for 20, 30 or 40 years. But I can't be responsible for the non-investments of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u121	Minister, I will make a very short reply. Far be it from me to blame you for breaking eggs to make a nice omelette. I therefore welcome with you the ambitious work that is being planned for this station, and I suppose for others, during your term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u122	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, when a motorist has a Class C driver's licence with a certificate of professional fitness, commonly known as CAP, he is required to conduct continuous training in order to renew this CAP. Exemptions are provided. Article 4(1) of the Royal Decree of 4 May 2007 states that the requirement of professional competence does not apply to drivers "vehicles or combinations of vehicles used for the transport of equipment, equipment or machines intended for the driver in the performance of his duties", provided that the driving of the vehicle does not constitute the main activity of the driver. Let us take the example of a communal worker working on the municipal roads. With a C permit, he is responsible for driving the truck to move equipment and materials but also to evacuate the land to a processing centre. According to some interpretation, the condition of "principal activity" must be considered activity by activity and not in an overall way on all the tasks of the agent in question. In our example, on the day the agent transports land, he is in the main driver's business and must therefore be in possession of the CAP. He doesn't need it on the day he delivers the tarmac he poses. However, the text may also suggest that stricto sensu transport, in the event of the evacuation of land, is an ancillary activity of the main activity of the driver, i.e. worker of the road service, which involves the laying of tarmac, the repair of sidewalks etc. The Mobility and Transport FPS has issued a list of categories of drivers that are exempt from CAP in the above-mentioned case. This list explicitly includes communal workers. Minister, could you clarify the actual scope of this exemption for communal workers? Are they ex officio exempted? Are they exempt if they never carry out a clean driving activity? Should they own and update their CAP under certain conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u123	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for these specific and interesting questions, which take us to another area of mobility. My administration and the SPF Mobility and Transport informs me that with regard to the communal workers, since the amendment of the Royal Decree of 4 May 2007 by the Royal Decree of 30 April 2020, the exemption of Article 4, § 1, 5° is very clearly applicable. I quote: "The requirement of professional fitness is not applicable to drivers: (...) 5° vehicles used for the non-commercial carriage of passengers or goods." The European Commission has been faced with differing applications of this exemption when some States have made it clear that, in their view, private goals should be analysed, not in the driver's view but in the context of the society for which the driver worked. In view of this uncertainty of application in the preparation of Directive 2018/645, the European exemption was reworked to extend its scope in view of the limited impact of the first formulation, which made the exemption a little applied and unapplicable text, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to dispel any doubts about its new scope and, incidentally, to clarify the cases where the certificate of professional fitness should be compulsory, subject to the application of other exemptions provided for in the European text. If we were only to analyse the exemption referred to in the sixth point without taking into account the exemption referred to in the fifth point, the interpretation of this exemption made by my administration would aim to make it available to most communal workers, except for cases of passenger transport, which the exemption does not cover, and the transport of waste. Secondly, my administration recalls that it provides on its website a list of frequently asked questions aimed at helping industry players to know whether or not they can make use of this exemption for their drivers. Therefore, it can be said that there is never an ex officio exemption, except in cases where the exemption is linked to the vehicle as such, such as, for example, the exemption referred to in the first and second points of the list, so that any driver would benefit from it. Finally, my administration states that exemptions were by definition an exception to the European principle of a certificate of professional fitness. In case of doubt, possession of a CAP is the only safe solution, especially in the case of crossing a border, because the European Commission has pointed out that each State is free to apply European exemptions on its territory or not. So this is a very legal answer to your very legal questions too, Mr Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u124	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer, which I think is very clear. I will forward it to the Director-General of a commune that had asked me and, if necessary, if further questions arise, I will not hesitate to return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u125	Debates of the European Parliament 55024583C and 55024584C by Mr Roggeman have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55024609C by Mr Wollants has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u126	Mr President, this is a technical question with a lot of introductions. I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u127	Article 26.4 of the European Regulation 165/2014 allows Member States to issue a temporary non-renewable driver card for a period of up to 185 days? Do you think it's a good idea to take advantage of this opportunity? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u128	Mr Raskin, on the driver attestation of persons carrying out goods transport and who are not holders of a Belgian or European driving licence, the Union code 95 can be entered. The driver card can indeed only be applied for in Belgium if you have your usual place of residence in Belgium. It is the official residence or if you are staying in Belgium for more than 185 days. However, you can also drive a foreign card delivered in a European or AETR Member State in Belgium, where AETR refers to the European Agreement on Road Transport. The problem therefore arises only for drivers from states not belonging to the AETR parties or the European Union and who also have no normal place of residence in Belgium. Drivers with a European driving licence must also be satisfied with proof of professional competence. We cannot allow an exception for drivers holding a non-European driving licence. As regards the driver card, Article 26.4 of Regulation 165/2014 does indeed provide for the possibility to issue temporary cards to drivers who have a driver attestation and a relevant employment relationship with a transport undertaking in the Member State. However, the Article provides that this may only be applied in exceptional cases and only if special circumstances justify it. Therefore, the European Commission is closely monitoring compliance with this possibility and has itself decided that the regulation can be adapted in this area if it appears that there are negative effects on the labour market. Under no circumstances should the article be applied systematically. The issue of a temporary driver card would also require a complete review of the system for issuing tachograph cards. This is difficult to justify, as the temporary card can only be issued in exceptional circumstances and in isolated cases. According to the latest information, no temporary card has been issued in any European Member State. It therefore does not seem appropriate at the moment to invoke that possibility, pending the driver's obtaining his normal residence title in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u129	Thank you, Minister, for the rather detailed and comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u130	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Verhaert's 55024729C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u131	Mr Minister, in her third interim report, the parliamentary committee of inquiry made a series of recommendations on airport safety. According to recommendations 74, 123 and 125, the Directorate-General for Aviation (DGLV) had to be strengthened in order to carry out its mission fully. The continuity of management was still a major problem and leaked reports pointed out that the functioning of the services needed to be further optimized and strengthened. Fortunately, the service was already strengthened with seven full-time equivalents, including two safety experts. The local security committee of the airport and the trade unions had an important role to play here. A number of meetings were held, among other things, but the workers in the workplace, in particular, continued to insist on further strengthening the consultation process in order to find an appropriate solution to the remaining problems. Mutual trust and good understanding are, of course, essential in order to ensure safety at an airport. In Recommendation 122 the Committee of Inquiry urged DGLV to take all necessary initiatives to further optimise aviation safety. At a subsequent check, the problems previously identified had to be solved in order not to get a new negative report. There would still be shortcomings within DGLV regarding staff numbers, people management and daily practice. These shortcomings have an impact on aviation security. Does DGLV operate today in accordance with current European regulations? To what extent is the service capable of correctly complying with and implementing the legal rules and obligations? Has the staff reinforcement at DGLV solved the problems? Does DGLV still show shortcomings? If so, which of these are linked to the internationally imposed experience requirements? To what extent has the 31 recommendations of the audit reports been met, which revealed various concerns regarding safety at Belgian airports? What was in the 2018 audit report? Is the quality programme notified to the EU correctly applied? Finally, is there sufficient mutual trust and understanding within DGLV to ensure safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u132	Mrs Goethals, the problems at DGLV are well known and not new. I have inherited a particularly difficult situation, which became even more acute after the EASA audit. On page 31 of my policy paper, you can read that there is a plan for a reorganisation of DGLV and that I want to provide a strong response to this situation that is unacceptable. I immediately took all the necessary measures to strengthen the DGLV services. The Council of Ministers approved my proposal to employ 25 additional full-time equivalents so that DGLV can carry out its tasks in full. The selection of these new employees is ongoing. In addition, an action plan was developed within the Security Service of the DGLV of the FPS Mobility with the aim of systematically addressing these points of improvement. Over the past three years, this action plan has been implemented and the improvement points addressed. This was confirmed by a letter from the European Commission dated December 2021. European regulations provide for certain requirements to be met by certain staff of the DGLV Security Service. In order to ensure that this is met, a training plan will be drawn up for these employees. The follow-up will be carried out not only by the Security Service, as part of the annual evaluation, but also by the HR responsible within DGLV. For employees who started work just before or during the period characterized by the measures taken to reduce the spread of the covid pandemic, it has not always proved evident to respect the initial training plan, given the delay or relocation of certain training courses. However, as the main work of the Security Service is often carried out in pairs, there are no acute problems, according to DGLV. The newly recruited employees all have experience in the aviation sector. As the European Commission's inspection reports may contain information that might indicate potential security weaknesses, these reports are classified. Consequently, particular care should be taken when sharing its specific content. Specific authorisations are required for this purpose. DGLV delivered the Action Plan to systematically address the points of improvement to the European Commission and reports on its implementation at regular intervals. In this sense, the European Commission's letter of December 2021 shows that the notifications made during previous inspections were seriously addressed. The national quality control programme is drawn up by DGLV itself, as provided for in European law, and is communicated to the European Commission. The programme will be maintained. It has recently been decided to amend it following the finding that in some respects it does not take sufficient account of, inter alia, some changed circumstances, such as the covid pandemic. In the meantime, efforts are being made to maximise compliance with the provisions of the existing quality control programme. The Security Service was previously housed in a different location than the other DGLV services. A few years ago this service was therefore housed in the same building as the other DGLV services. This led to better cooperation and integration. In addition, many recruitments have taken place and the requirements and reality in the field of work have changed significantly since the 2016 attacks. As a number of employees found it difficult to accept the changed circumstances, participatory psychosocial risk analyses were carried out within the Aviation Security Service, with Empreva's support. This led to a plan with different action points around interpersonal relationships, which have now been realized. Of course, employees' well-being is at the forefront and permanent attention is paid to this, including through the roll-out of a satisfaction survey in July 2021 and a survey on psychosocial risks and welfare factors at work in September 2021 throughout the FPS Mobility. This effectively monitors whether employees indicate that there is mutual trust and a good understanding. If necessary, this can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic687x.u133	Mr President, my patience has been rewarded with a very detailed answer. I am extremely pleased that you acknowledge the problems, Minister, and that you will take them into account. I had asked the same question to your fellow Minister for the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, but I did not receive such a comprehensive answer at the time. I will read your answer again in the report. Thank you and have a nice evening.
