ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic744x.u1	In the meantime, Minister, the alarms of the corona crisis are already over, but many people are still discussing the consequences with the administrations. I therefore have the following question. The general rules on the bridging right for corona had a severe financial impact on self-employed persons working part-time because of illness and in addition received a replacement income for disability. They fell out of the boat for this bridging right because they also had this replacement income, even though it was only part-time. Are these general rules not contrary to your policy of re-integration of the labour force, including self-employed workers, and to keep those part-time jobs? Will you possibly refine the existing rules and take into account the amount of the replacement income to meet these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic744x.u2	Mr Verreyt, the temporary crisis measures on the right of bridging were launched in March 2020. It is true that self-employed persons who are recognised as unfit for work but who are allowed to work as self-employed persons were excluded from these temporary crisis measures as a result of an anti-cumulative provision. However, if they had to stop their selfemployed activity as a result of the health measures taken, they fell back on a full disability benefit during the period of interruption. In addition, certain self-employed persons who have been forced to interrupt their self-employed activities from March 2020 are eligible for an additional crisis benefit in order to equal the amount of their disability benefit to the amount of the financial benefit of the bridging right. On 1 January 2021, the existing temporary crisis measures concerning the right of bridging were reformed. Since then, a cumulation provision has been provided for. Self-employed persons who benefit from a replacement income, including those who have an authorised activity, have since been eligible to benefit from the temporary crisis measures on the right to bridge, albeit limited to a certain ceiling. This ceiling is the accumulation of the crisis bridging right with a replacement income. This is permitted for all self-employed persons, provided that the sum of the planned crisis bridging right and the other replacement income per month does not exceed the amount of the planned crisis bridging right. The rules have therefore been adjusted to take account of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic744x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your answer on a situation that is not very easy. You were right to talk about the different periods and different rules that have been in place. In particular, the rules have not always reached the right people. The fact that a number of people have now contacted me about this is a sign that there are still discussions between the self-employed and the administration about the correct interpretation of a number of things, which I naturally regret. I merely asked my question in order to be able to distil a number of answers. I also received those answers, for which I thank you. In this way, the stakeholders were helped further in their discussion with the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic744x.u4	Minister, in the newspaper L-Écho of Saturday, March 19, it was recalled that several elements still stand in the way of the revival of activity in the leader of the bankrupt self-employed. This is an important issue for us because it is essential to be able to recover when we have experienced a difficulty or an activity that has not worked. I am convinced that it is essential to be able to recover. Sometimes there are brakes that don't allow anyone who wants a real second chance to grab it. In our view, this is a political priority. This article highlighted a particular problem concerning the inadequacy of the Compulsory Health Care Insurance Act. In order to be able to benefit from the intervention of the mutual fund in its medical expenses, the recipient must be in order to pay its social contributions for a full reference year, i.e. that between 1 January and 31 December of the second calendar year preceding the beginning of the year in which the medical expenses are incurred. The self-employed person with arrears of social contributions of more than one year will therefore be deprived of the intervention of his mutual. A draft reform in preparation – a transposition of the European framework – would provide for the postponement of the final decision on the cancellation of debts at the time of the closure of the bankruptcy, which could delay the moment when the declared bankrupts will be able to recover their right to mutual benefit. The problem seems to be complex and technical, but it is ultimately a matter of health insurance, which is extremely important in relation to the social status of the self-employed. Minister, do you confirm these measures under discussion and contained in this bill in preparation? In addition, have you considered additional measures to address this high risk of self-employed health protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic744x.u5	Mr Vanden Burre, at present, neither my administration nor my firm are aware of the concrete proposals for the postponement of the final decision on the write-off of debts at the time of the closure of the bankruptcy. So we have no information on this. However, I can tell you about the current rules on health care coverage. In general, in order to benefit from the right to health care within the framework of compulsory insurance, in addition to registration with a mutual fund, two conditions must be fulfilled: on the one hand, to have a certain quality, namely wage-earner, self-employed, pensioner, etc. and, on the other hand, be in order of contributions. In the case of self-employed persons, fulfilling the health care contribution obligation means that the social status of self-employed persons is in order for all quarters of the reference year, i.e. for the second calendar year preceding the year of entitlement to health care, i.e. the year in which the costs are incurred. For the bankrupt self-employed, there are derogations that allow the right to health care to be enjoyed as if they were in order to the social status of the self-employed, including the benefit of the bridge right. Thus, Article 32.6/10ter of the Law on the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers allows self-employed persons who benefit from the maintenance of social rights under the right of access, which is referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Law of 22 December 2016 establishing a right of access for self-employed persons, for up to four quarters, to benefit from the right to health care. If some of these self-employed persons are not entitled to the bridge right, they may also, within the framework of compulsory health care insurance, mobilise the status of resident holder referred to in section 32.15 of the Act. This qualification implies being entered in the National Register of Natural Persons and paying quarterly personal contributions which are based on the household's income and are up to a maximum of 753 euros up to zero euros with several intermediate contributions depending on income. Where appropriate, the impact of a possible legislative amendment concerning bankruptcy will be analysed by my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic744x.u6	Minister, thank you for all these elements and all these reminders. I will look in detail at all the legal provisions you mentioned. In relation to the bill, I referred to what I read in the press. I wonder if this does not come with another package on the reform of the CJF. I'll dig these elements further. There are things that exist, but it is important to see whether they are being applied and what remedies are available to the independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic744x.u7	Between us, I know that there is a working group within the Justice FPS that is working on this issue. This may be the answer, but I am not aware of the conclusions of his work.
