ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u1	Mr Minister, this is a follow-up question to previous questions on the cost and roll-out of the allocation of funds for COVID-19. You will be pleased to give me the current state of roll-out of the booster prick. That question might be a little dated. Above all, what's the cost of the booster shot so far? Is it already known what the cost would be of the roll-out of the booster needle via primary care? What agreements have been made with the Länder by the federal government on their financial settlement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u2	I have a similar question about the progress of vaccination, about the booster, about the financial impact, and so on. What's the next vaccination plan? Who gets a fourth vaccination? From when will it be given? I've heard it's already been administered to a number of patients at risk. Are there also groups that will already receive a fifth vaccination? Which groups are involved? And when will they get it? Will subsequent vaccinations be required for a green check mark on the potentially reactivated CST? In the meantime, has any arrangements been made for financing the previous booster campaign? Who will pay for the next booster campaign? If the vaccination campaign continues with a second, third or yet another booster shot, how do you reconcile that with the WHO's statement that we will not be able to booster ourselves out of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u3	Since these questions have been tabled a while ago, the answer has been drawn up earlier and therefore a bit dated, but I do not think that is the essence. You can always find the updated answer on our website. On 16 February, 6,749,628 inhabitants of our country received a booster dose. That was 73 percent of our population aged 18 and over. No agreement has yet been reached between the federal government and the Länder on the financing of this piece of the vaccination campaign. The government now finances the purchase, storage and distribution of the vaccines and the administration equipment. The Communities shall organise the administration of the vaccines. This is still being done to a large extent through the vaccination centres. Mrs Depoorter, you asked the specific question of how much it costs when it happens through first-line care. For that reason, I don't have an exact view. The same applies to Mrs Sneppe's questions on funding. Mrs. Sneppe, you're trying to look ahead. At the moment, we have offered a fourth shot only to people who have been immunocompromised. There's always some confusion in the terminology. I'm deliberately talking about a fourth shot. The third shot these people received in September was, in our view, actually part of their basic vaccination because of the immune problem in a number of people, such as cancer patients. We should not call the third shot they received a booster. Actually, it can be said that the fourth shot is the booster, and the third shot was simply the supplement to the basic scheme. I would like to stress that because there is no scientific evidence at present that convinces us, the High Health Council and, above all, the Task Force Vaccination, to offer the whole population a fourth shot, in particular a second booster. For the time being there is no indication of this, although there are countries that do or already announce it. In our view, there is no convincing evidence at present to decide that the whole population should receive a fourth shot, in particular a second booster for a large part of the population. It is now publicly known that the Task Force has proposed several scenarios to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. The scenarios are possible future vaccination campaigns, some of which seem more plausible than others for a number of reasons. For example, it is plausible that in the autumn older people and a number of other subgroups would receive a second booster shot. That's plausible, but not yet decided. We do not immediately have a scientific indication that this should be extended to the whole population for the time being. Of course, the data on this can still evolve. Those data shall take into account, inter alia, how long the booster needle remains effective. In other scenarios, just think of a flare-up, we can possibly decide to proceed more quickly to re-vaccination. I am not going to go over all the scenarios, but there is certainly a most plausible scenario that provides for a second booster in the autumn, starting with the residents of the housing centres and the 75-plussers. That second booster would be offered together with the flu vaccination to caregivers and elderly, immunosuppressed or people with an underlying condition. As has already been said, everything has already been documented, but no decision has yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u4	Minister, I do not always agree with you on the basic vaccination scheme, because there is uncertainty. Are there two or three primary vaccinations? I do agree with you that we are talking about the third and fourth shots. Your draft law on compulsory vaccination in the care sector is also open to interpretation as to the content of the basic vaccination scheme. For the booster campaign there remains a gap between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, which calls for our attention. I find it remarkable that no agreement has yet been reached on funding. After all, I note that EUR 725 million has been entered in the federal budget of the Regions for the expenses of that booster campaign. So you enter a considerable amount of money into the budget without having agreed on a distribution key. This is another example of an unorthodox financial policy. It reminds me of the start of the vaccination campaign when no funds were provided to pay for the vaccines either. It is therefore high time to sit around the table with the Flemish Government. I am convinced that she will co-operate constructively on this invoice, but also on the post-emergency invoices. It bears witness to a financial imbalance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u5	Indeed, Minister, it is strange that no agreement has yet been reached on funding. In a good household one first sees if one can pay everything and then spend money. I fully understand that this was not possible at the beginning of the pandemic. In the meantime, however, we are two years ahead of schedule and should be arranged in advance. I hope that the necessary and appropriate arrangements will be made by the autumn when a further booster campaign is needed. In your reply I also noticed the preferred scenario for a second booster for the 75-plussers and the elderly in the WSCs. You say that the second booster, together with the flu shot, will also be offered to the care staff. I read in your draft law on compulsory vaccination that you think not only of offering but also of requiring the next booster. You will probably no longer answer my question whether this will be offered or required. That is why I will put a new question. In this way it becomes clear what we can expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament 55024842C by Mrs Depoorter and 55025789C by Mrs Merckx are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u7	Minister, this question too is somewhat dated, but the aspect of my question of the influenza epidemic still applies. Yesterday we heard through news reports that care is being postponed in the UZ Gasthuisberg. The flu leads to a lot of hospitalizations. In addition, the slightly increasing number of people infected with the omikron variant, deltakron variant or combikron variant. Minister, what steps have been taken to prevent the breakdown of healthcare professionals due to, among other things, overload, illness, burn-out and discontinuation? What concrete measures have been taken to tackle the difficult combination of flu and covid from the healthcare sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u8	Mrs Depoorter, your question requires a broader answer, which proves that it is an interesting and important question, because you rightly refer to the flu epidemic. Normally, this afternoon's bulletin will be published, containing the latest data on influenza. I await the publication on the Sciensano website and will therefore not anticipate it. However, we must be aware that we are dealing with a predicted revival of infections with the omikron variant, which creates some pressure on hospitals. I'll be right back to that. In addition, we are dealing with a flu epidemic with moderate intensity. We classify flu epidemics according to the intensity of the circulation: a low intensity, a moderate intensity, with medium activity, and high intensity. The RAG's curves and statistics, which will be updated this afternoon, indicated a first peak at the level of moderate intensity, medium activity, mid-January. Now we are on our way to a second peak of flu infections, of which we do not yet know how far it will reach. It is particularly clear that we are now dealing with the second peak in a flu epidemic of moderate intensity. Flu is not an innocent disease. Everyone knows that. That is why we really recommend certain populations to be vaccinated. This is happening now, along with a revival of infections with omikron. There is also a real pressure on hospitals. Our hospitals are having a hard time today. The image that we have gone from code orange to code yellow, which means that the situation is under control, dominates the population. Actually, it's not easy in a number of hospitals. Some hospitals are very full, with a very busy activity, not so much on intensive care, but in the ordinary bedhouse, by a combination of people with covid and people with flu who are hospitalized and of course care that was delayed. There are people coming in whose care has been delayed, and therefore they need a little more care. In a number of hospitals there is also quite a lack of staff due to fatigue, corona, flu and so on. It's not an easy situation for hospitals. As non-hospital personnel, we have to keep our eyes open for that. The healthcare sector is still struggling. This also applies to general practitioners. They are also under great pressure due to the combination of flu, corona and delayed care. We don't risk losing control of the global situation. Overall, there are still many hospital beds available. Around 3,500 beds are available throughout Belgium. A large number of beds are still available. There are specific hospitals in different regions that are about completely full. In the surrounding area there are sometimes hospitals that still have room. This means that it is important to organise solidarity between hospitals for the transfer of patients. This remains very important, not only on intensive care, but also on the regular bedhouse. This also underlines the enormous importance of hospital networks within which solidarity can be organised. If we want to maintain our resilience, with regard to a hospital system and staff, which remain under real pressure, solidarity within hospitals, within hospital networks, across the borders of hospitals, but also the solidarity of the entire population with these hospitals is of particular importance. Before I talk about the situation of staff, let me return to the issue of flu and COVID-19. I would like to stress that we are clearly still in the yellow phase. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that next week we would hold a meeting of the Consultative Committee where we might be going from the yellow stage, but that will not be the case, I believe. It is very unlikely that we will be able to get out of the yellow phase next week. I do not know whether there will be a meeting of the Consultative Committee next week, because if the phase does not change, there may not be a need for a meeting of the Consultative Committee either. I'm not getting ahead of myself. It's not my decision either. It seems very clear to me, however, that when we ask for the opinion of Health and the Coronac Commissioner, we say: we remain at the stage of yellow. Yellow means ventilation policy. We are not imposing it now with laws and decisions, but we are counting on the cinema industry, the cultural sector, the sports sector and the event sector where people come together to provide air change. That remains extremely important. Yellow means wearing the mouth mask on the train, on the bus, on the metro, on the tram. On public transport there is a duty to mask the mouth. That's really essential. It is also carried in residential care centres, in hospitals, in medical practice, and in pharmacies, both customers and pharmacists. At pharmacists, a little more than elsewhere, people who are vulnerable, because of their disease or because of their disease history come along. The duty of masking is very important, in addition to air change. Let me stress that it is important against the covid virus, but also against the flu virus. Actually, we're in a season where we have to pay attention, a season with a combination of omikron and flu. We can only imagine that in that season wearing a mouth mask is a good policy. I would like to add, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent days I have happened to be present at two cultural activities. That's very nice, of course. People are seen coming there with mouth masks, and people without mouth masks. We should not look at the people who arrive there with a mouth mask and stop doing so. Those aren't diehards or people who are obsessed with the mouth mask, but just people who think it's necessary for themselves to be careful about a disease history, because of their age, maybe because they live with vulnerable people or for other reasons. You do not know why people wear a mouth mask while others do not, but it is absolutely their right and probably wise. Let's respect that. This applies to cultural activities, to shops and shopping centres. Of course, it is an obligation in all healthcare professions, with the exception of logopedists or sessions with clinical psychologists or clinical orthopedagogues, where we do not ask. For the rest, we ask Kine, the GP, the pharmacy and so on. In this context, it is important to understand clearly what is going on from Thursday in terms of policy on isolation, quarantine and testing. The rule remains that one has to be tested, if one has symptoms of covid. One can still do so through the self-evaluation tool, for which we have a website. If one is apparently infected with covid or is likely to be infected with covid, one will get a free test. One can apply for it there and should not bother the general practitioner for it. They're doing that test. If one is positive, one stays at home and one has to isolate oneself for seven days. That is and remains very important. More generally, I think that even though we used to be proud of this sometimes, it is not really a good attitude to go to work if people feel sick or flu. That's actually not a good attitude. If you have the flu or covid, stay home! What changes is the quarantine rule. We no longer say that after high-risk contact with someone who is positive for covid, one should be quarantined. We do say that if you live with someone in a family who has covid, that person should isolate himself for seven days. If the people who live with it go out, they have to be very careful. They shouldn't be quarantined, but if they go out, they should be very careful, wear a mouth mask for seven days, and if that doesn't work, take a self-test. We're dealing with increasing flu infections. We're in a situation of moderate intensity of a flu epidemic. We're going to a second peak, but we're not there yet. That weighs. That weighs on the hospitals and on the general practitioners. Mouth masks offer excellent protection against that. I really want to insist on that, also out of solidarity with the hospitals. What we have decided on quarantine, testing and tracing is part of a scheme prepared by the Risk Management Group and accepted by the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, which distinguishes three levels of virus circulation and two types of virus ('serious' or 'not so serious'). Thus, the schedule counts six boxes, which determine the test and quarantine policy. The current box means: no quarantine, but with caution when living with someone who is infected, but always tests for symptoms. That scheme has been published and can be considered a kind of multidimensional barometer. With regard to your specific question about hospitals, Mrs Depoorter, like the care providers in general, staff are having a difficult time, not only because of the fatigue of the past period, but also because of illness. It is therefore all the more important that we focus on measures that offer a perspective. As you know, under the social agreement, we are investing around EUR 500 million in better wages, starting on 1 July. These decisions have all been taken, although they have been delayed for the public sector. We add a certain category of specialized nurses to that, because the IFIC model had some gaps. Secondly, an envelope of EUR 100 million was released to make the profession of nurse, among others, more attractive. The negotiations between the social partners in the sector have been dragging on for quite some time, so that I myself became a little impatient, but the end of this is now in sight. So I hope to be able to tell you in the near future how the EUR 100 million, which we will use in addition for the attraction, will be used. Unfortunately, I cannot do that today, but that will be an important message, Mrs Depoorter. Thirdly, a 'bis' working group, in line with the working group on the 100 million, has been set up to improve the quality of working conditions and the attractiveness of the healthcare professions. The nurses are once again an important point of attention. I expect this working group and the social partners to have a concrete agenda again to improve the situation of staff in our federal health institutions. We may have to ask for additional budgetary resources for this. The planning committee Medical Offer, and in particular the working group Nurses, is currently also developing scenarios for the evolution of the work force. A study will also be carried out to define and quantify scenarios related to the need for nursing and nursing staff. This work is now underway and is important in order to assess, for example, whether the Health Care Staff Fund is sufficient to assess what we need to do in terms of quality and also to feed the thinking exercise in this working group bis on the attractiveness of the profession. My answer was very broad, but I had the impression that there was a need for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u9	For the combination of COVID-19 and flu we have been afraid for two years, so we are lucky that it only occurs now, but it remains a focus. What worries me is that, although we now find that most flu patients are young people, it may cause problems if other groups that are not or are not insufficiently vaccinated become infected. You were just talking about resilience. It doesn't seem to be enough yet, but you're working on it. I will come back to that later. After two years of covid pandemic, the general practitioners sit again with their hands in their hair. I have often called for assistance from home nurses, for example. The telephone charge is huge. There will be more tests. One can now happily test for both influenza and COVID-19 in one rapid antigen test. That could happen in the pharmacy, by the way. That test will also be refunded. However, the workload is enormous. We really need to think about how to help these people, because this is not the way to proceed. You didn't mention the virus inhibitors, which remain a focus for me. I will ask another question about this later. Those virus inhibitors will be important in terms of resilience and reception of the new waves. With regard to the test policy, you explained the new situation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that many patients have suffered another loss of smell and taste since about two weeks when they become infected with the coronavirus. As a result, the doctors think that there is more delta, deltakron or some new variant doing the rounds. So you need to monitor enough, so that we know which variants do the rounds and which variants become dominant. As regards the resilience of care, you have mentioned that IFIC will finally enter into force in July. With regard to the working group on attraction and in particular the working group a, I would like to point out the problem that some nurses who start working stop after three to six months. The so-called onboarding, accompanying new nurses to keep them on board, is absolutely a priority that needs to be addressed. As far as the Planning Committee is concerned, account must certainly be taken of the various nurses' specialities and the scaling up of functions so that they can work optimally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u10	Minister, this issue was on the agenda of the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2022. It was discussed in the framework of public procurement. I would have liked to know from you what decision has been taken as a result of this discussion. When and at what price are the goods purchased?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u11	Ms Depoorter, in 2020 and 2021, several public procurement contracts were awarded for the purchase of consumables, reagents for in vitro diagnostics, for the federal testing platform COVID-19. The commands each consisted of a hard disk and different options that could be lightened according to the need. For most of these assignments, the maximum volume has already been ordered. Taking this into account, on 17 December 2021, the Council of Ministers agreed to the extension of 50% of five different public procurement contracts. It was considered that this could cover the needs until the end of June 2022. For the second half of 2022 and for 2023, new public procurement contracts would be launched by open procedure at the beginning of 2022. Due to the emergence of the omikron variant and the sharp increase in the number of tests, it is now assumed that the volume of the approved extensions will be exhausted by the end of April 2022 at the latest. In order to cover the need in the period April 2022-March 2023, the Council of Ministers approved on 4 February the launch by open procedure of five new public procurement contracts for the purchase of test material. Let me sum them up. These include collectible tubes, including viral inactivation medium, RT-qPCR analysis kits, RNA extraction analysis kits, 96 and 384 MOL PCR film plates and nasopharyngeal swabs. Like the current assignments, the new will consist of a hard drive for one million tests and five optional drives, four for two million tests each and one for three million tests, which will be ordered according to the need. On the basis of the unit prices in the current contract, the total cost of the new contracts when ordering all options is estimated at EUR 94.9 million, excluding VAT, of which EUR 56.9 million is charged to the 2022 budget and EUR 40.7 million to the 2023 budget. When the test volume is reduced, not all options will of course be ordered, so that the effective cost will be lower in that case. However, pending the award of the new contracts, the Council of Ministers agreed to an additional 50% increase in the current contracts in order to cover the period up to the award. The cost of this extension is estimated at EUR 16.8 million, excluding VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u12	These are, of course, large sums of money, Minister. From a number of scientific angles it is said that too much testing would be carried out and that the test procedure should be re-evaluated, especially in the run-up to subsequent waves. Have you taken that into account? Is this just a continuation? I understand that we do not want to run without tests, but we must be careful and certainly renegotiate when we talk about PCR tests and erasers and all the things that have become much more common during this crisis than before. I suppose I'll have to put a follow-up question on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u13	Mr Minister, my question concerns a contract concluded in mid-2020 with the Belgian government's partner for the storage of mouth masks. Then Minister Philippe De Backer had appointed Merak nv to store the strategic stock, some 200 million mouth masks. In August 2020 it appeared that the FOD was sending out a new public contract for the storage of the strategic stock. A prize study was conducted and Merak did not come out of this as a winning party. The cause would be the large price difference with the other provider, Gosselin, to which the public contract was therefore awarded. Through a procedure at the Council of State, Merak wanted to have the price survey checked and, if necessary, re-executed. According to Merak nv, Gosselin's price was anything but regular. However, the Council of State considered that there were no problems with the price investigation and therefore Merak's request was rejected. Can you explain the price difference between the two providers, Minister? What other considerations were involved, in addition to the price difference? How much did the government pay Merak in the end? How much does the government currently pay Gosselin to store the strategic stock? What period does the agreement run?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u14	Mrs Depoorter, the most important price difference occurred at the cost item'storage costs per month'. The unit price of Merak nv is 3.56 euros per m3, the unit price of Gosselin is 1.15 euros per m3, both excluding VAT. The prices from the offers are confidential. Both tenderers met the pre-defined selection criteria of the procedure. The award criterion 'price' has thus determined the outcome. Since June 2020 Merak nv 4.176.164,28 euros including VAT have been paid for the storage and distribution of the strategic stock. This stock contains, in addition to surgical and FFP2 masks, also phosphonate gloves, insulation jackets, covers, protective glasses and face shields, which are also included in the budget. A contract was concluded with Gosselin for 1,482,310,50 euros including VAT. That agreement was concluded in October 2021, runs for two years and is renewable twice, each with one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u15	Minister, the figures confirm what I said in committee. Around EUR 750 million was allocated to public procurement without prior publication by the then Wilmès Government, with Mrs De Block and Mr De Backer as competent ministers. If we take the picture, and that is not a reproach to you, Minister, then I see that more than EUR 2 to 3 million of fiscal resources have been spent in a rash manner. That is a great deal of money and it must be made clear to the citizens, because it is something that cannot be repeated anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u16	Mr De Caluwé apologized and his questions. 55024976C and 55024977C are converted into written questions. Mrs Merckx also apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u17	In an article on the Doorbraak.be website, Sciensano indicated that it cannot respond to questions from citizens and interest groups seeking data and figures on the covid crisis. It is stated that it is not a question of bad will, but of a serious shortage of staff. In addition, the Commission for Access to Administrative Documents (CTB) has not been active for a long time because the government has lately renewed the mandates of the members of the Commission, so that it has not been able to carry out its duties as a watchdog for a while. Especially in a crisis, openness and the active sharing of information are of great importance. The CTB has also indicated this earlier on figures requested by our group from Sciensano. Even then, Sciensano refused to release that data. Then it was about variation in the length of lying and mortality per hospital. The workload in times of crisis for an institute like Sciensano is not comparable to the workload in normal times. It is therefore mainly a question of scaling up when necessary, not of continuously or permanently scaling up, but only in a crisis situation. This is the only way to avoid overcrowding in peace times and a shortage of personnel in times of crisis. Apparently such a scaling-up was not foreseen, but in the meantime the crisis has been going on for two years. What measures have been taken to strengthen the capacity of Sciensano? How many full-time equivalents have there been in place since the start of the crisis, possibly temporarily? In what form are they appointed? Were cooperation agreements concluded with other institutions such as universities in order to increase capacity? If so, which one? Were certain tasks delegated to other institutions? If so, which one? If not, why not? Was there an evaluation of the performance and capacity of Sciensano during this crisis? If so, when was the evaluation carried out? What is the result of that? What lessons were learned to implement in the future, so that a scaling-up and sufficient capacity can be achieved in times of a health crisis? Do you think it is acceptable that Sciensano should not respond to questions from citizens and institutions? If no, what will you do or have you undertaken to ensure that there are answers to the questions asked? Will you address Sciensano on this or have you done so already? Finally, the mandates of the members of the CTB have been extended. What took you so long?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u18	As regards your first question, in the summer of 2020, the government agreed to recruit 45 people to meet the staff shortage identified by the Director-General of Sciensano on his arrival on 1 January 2020. Due to the crisis, this deficit was estimated at 110 full-time units, unbearable for Sciensano staff. The new staff were recruited under an indefinite contract because they compensated for a structural need. I have obtained a structural budget of EUR 2.3 million, which will be allocated to Sciensano from 2022 onwards. Then you ask how many vte's are working temporarily or in addition. In addition to the structural tasks of Sciensano, in particular the surveillance, 90 one-off research projects have been entrusted to the scientific institution, for example the analysis of seroprevalence in various patient groups in retirement homes and schools, the monitoring of wastewater, population surveys, barometers in the medical profession, effectiveness analysis of vaccines and others. For these 90 temporary projects 48 employees are needed. Most have already been recruited and have a fixed-term contract. Then you ask whether cooperation agreements were concluded with other institutions such as universities. Indeed, some of these 90 temporary covid projects are carried out in collaboration with an institution outside Sciensano. If you'd like, I can email you the list. That's quite a lot. For example, a framework agreement has been concluded with Hasselt University to develop the modelling of the evolution of the main indicators related to the pandemic. The monitoring of wastewater is carried out in collaboration with the universities of Ghent, Atnwerpen and Namur, e-biom and SPGE. Together with Ghent University, a seroprevalence study is developed in retirement homes, and so on. If you like, I'll send you this by e-mail, you'll have a more exhaustive overview, Mrs. Gijbels. Why were certain tasks delegated and why not? Sciensano has established numerous partnerships. This is not only a question of staff discharge, but also of supplementing certain competences necessary for the implementation of these projects. Mind you, the basic surveillance assignments remain the responsibility of Sciensano by law. You asked if an evaluation was made of the performance of Sciensano and so on. Over the last two years, Sciensano's staff have carried out all the tasks associated with its numerous tasks, in particular the monitoring of all human and animal health and the environment. More than 750 activities and projects are carried out by the five scientific directors serving the authorities, the main stakeholders, the BFSA, the FPS Public Health, the RIZIV, the FAGG, and the population. In addition, Sciensano has taken on all the supervisory tasks, the collection and analysis of data, the reporting in various forms, advising the authorities, chairing the RAG, answering almost 750 parliamentary questions in the meantime, formulating legal responses to complaints against the authorities, answering countless citizens' questions about the CST, etc. You ask what lessons were taken. Well, my cabinet, the coronac committee, the administrations under my responsibility and Sciensano are currently working on a structural plan to optimise preparation, preparation for possible crises. One of the most important lessons of the health crisis is related to this approach. In times of crisis, it is of the utmost importance to mobilise what already exists, but of course to a greater extent. It is therefore essential to invest now in necessary critical masses in terms of expertise and analytical tools for effective monitoring of all health risks. Finally, you ask me whether I think it is acceptable that Sciensano should not respond to questions from citizens and institutions. My answer is this. Ideally, the means to apply the law should indeed be available. The Law of 11 April 1994 on public access to public administration was issued when there was no health crisis. All these questions about the data related to the health crisis, although relevant and justified, constitute a considerable amount of work for the staff responsible for collecting and analysing that data. For the sake of transparency and efficiency, Sciensano makes a very large number of data available to everyone on its website, in the form of a dashboard, and also in the form of daily, weekly and thematic reports. In this way, Sciensano seeks to provide all interested parties and interested parties with the information available to it as an institute. Sciensano has proved temporarily unable to answer all the questions, some of which are particularly detailed and detailed, but this does not necessarily mean that more staff is the only solution. I would like to point out that, in any case, the operation of an institute is compromised from a certain number of questions. It is therefore essential to find a structural solution for each public institution in order to ensure a proper balance between sustainable operation and transparency and openness. For your information: Sciensano has given priority to parliamentary questions and has been responding to around 750 questions since June 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u19	You have mentioned the preparation plan that is being worked on. I'm looking forward to it. I also hope that it will establish a system that provides for some kind of framework agreements with different universities or other institutions, so that, in times of crisis, additional staff needs can be met immediately should this prove necessary. It turned out to be a tricky point and for a long time it has been looked at how this could be dealt with in the most efficient way. I believe that there should also be regular training, together with Sciensano and all kinds of institutions, on possible future health crises. I have looked very specifically at Sciensano's evaluation of performance and capacity. I very much regret that I did not get a clear answer to that. There is a laundry list of what Sciensano has done during the crisis. That was quite a lot, I admit. However, they have not been able to carry out a very important task, in particular the sharing of data with citizens or with those interested in certain data. The CTB also points out that it is essential that the data are available. That it can't be done immediately, I understand. But if Sciensano then seeks excuses, such as, for example, staff shortages, while you yourself state that this is not the biggest reason that certain things could not happen, I wonder if there is no mentality problem in the senior management. I do not understand why, despite all the extra commitment of staff and framework contracts, there was no time in times of crisis in which it is particularly important to be transparent. I also do not understand how it is that there is such a negative response to a screening. After a crisis, I think it is just as essential for such an important body, which has played such a big role, to look at what has gone well and what has gone less well and what are the points of improvement. I just don't understand why people don't accept that this is necessary. Any company would take one of these checks with both hands to learn from. I find it very special and very unfortunate that this is apparently different in a government institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u20	Honestly, Minister, I do not think it is possible for the public administration to be completely bypassed towards, for example, the association Legal Hearts with the argument that there is no time and too few people and resources. As Mr Gijbels says, you are quoting a lot of arguments as to why there was no time and no means. That is, of course, a problem, because that is one of the things you mention, particularly the corona crisis as a major cause. But that is also a problem before the corona crisis, as Mr Leonard also points out in his analysis. He says he lacks 110 full-time equivalents to carry out his assignment properly. That's what he said before the corona crisis. If people and non-profit organisations and all kinds of civil organisations complain about this, it seems that until recently no appeal or complaint could be made about it because the professional committee had not been re-appointed. In fact, if I am not mistaken, you did not answer the question as to why this oblivion occurred? Or am I mistaken, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u21	That's actually a question for the Home Office. I thought the problem was settled, but I'm not sure. It's a question you need to put to the Home Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u22	Then I will question Mrs Verlinden about that. In conclusion, Minister, I welcome the promises and intentions you make and the means and people you provide for Sciensano. I also hope that all questions, which are also asked by citizens and organisations, can be effectively answered in the context of public administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u23	Minister, a publication in Nature stated that there could be expected heart problems and complaints following covid infection. Effective research shows that people who have experienced covid infection may have an increased risk, about 4 %, of heart problems after a year. The consequences for non-vaccinated individuals would be worse than for vaccinated persons. I would have liked to have heard from you what action you are taking to reduce these risks in the event of covid contamination. Are additional checks, including blood tests, provided for this extension, or a scientific protocol, or guidelines to alert primary care providers to the need to follow these matters in rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u24	Mrs Depoorter, starting with an open door: the main prevention to prevent serious covid infections and their consequences is, of course, to control the number of infections. That is still the case today, including in code yellow, which I have just said we may need to extend, and longer than we might have thought. It is also important that we have an accessible first line, and I certainly should not convince you of that. The first line should also be able to refer people to specialist care in good time. You ask if additional checks will be provided, e.g. blood tests. So far, it has not been demonstrated that it would be useful to carry out systematic biochemical controls in all patients. Doctors can provide an individual approach for patients who require this, for example because they have experienced a severe form of covid. Patients with risk factors for cardiovascular problems, such as diabetes, overweight or high blood pressure, undergo basically regular follow-up by their physician. The Minister provides for a scientific protocol, a directive for first-line care providers to follow covid patients after rehabilitation. Within the Evidence-Based Practice Network, a project was launched in September of last year on the development of a Belgian interdisciplinary directive for the follow-up, screening and rehabilitation of post-covid patients in the first line in Belgium, whether or not after discharge from the hospital. That Directive is a source of information for the care providers and consists of unambiguous recommendations containing an overview of possible options in terms of approach, so that the joint decision can be taken on the path to recovery to be followed. In order to implement that Directive, cooperation has been established with representatives of healthcare providers and patient organisations, the post-covid community. The publication of the Directive is scheduled for August. I did ask whether that should necessarily take until August, because that is still a long time to come. But I don't have an answer to that yet. I understand that work takes time, but I hope it will soon lead to a publication. The COVIMPACT Study is conducted on lung covid in general. It identifies its consequences and the initial results show that many infected people suffer long-term effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u25	Mr Minister, there are two different issues at stake. Long covid is now given some attention, including through that study. You are right to say that it is very late if the directive is not published until August. If patients with diffuse heart problems are admitted urgently today or register with the GP, the history is not automatically asked if the patient has experienced a covid infection. That might help, though. I therefore agree that there should be a directive as soon as possible. But the problem has nothing to do with the severity of the covid infection. cardiac problems may also occur with mild symptoms. Especially those patients may not have the reflex to report that to their doctor. That is why it is so important that this directive is introduced as soon as possible and that covid is included in the history.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Depoorter's 55025253C lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u27	I refer to the written version of my oral question, which is of a technical nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u28	Mrs Farih, I will also give a technical answer. Article 104, second paragraph of the co-ordinated law on hospitals of 10 July 2008 has been inserted by law of 26 June 2020 as follows: "The patient of an epidemic or a pandemic or the victims of a disaster or catastrophe, for whom the cost of the service is covered by the Financial Resources Budget, as provided for in Article 101, shall not be charged any additional costs in the form of non-reimbursable performance." That was important. I think you know the history of that. The justification for that change in the legislation was that we wanted to prevent costs such as non-refundable medical and paramedical fees, non-refundable implants and hygiene products and various costs from increasing the patient bill of a pandemic patient or the victim of a disaster. The underlying idea of the bill underlying the Law of 26 June 2020, which was initially limited to a ban on supplements but later extended to a ban on non-refundable performance, was indeed to protect covid patients from a peppered hospital bill. I would like to quote from one of the preparatory documents: 'Like a large part of the population, patients are financially severely affected by the crisis. Now more than ever, we must avoid having a second stroke of the hammer in the form of a peppered hospital bill after the nightmare that is already a hospitalization for these reasons. In the light of the current pandemic, we wish that patients who are hospitalised by a suspicion of covid contamination will not be charged any supplements." Article 104, second paragraph of the Hospital Act, defines the scope of the prohibition on non-reimbursable benefits. It departs from a certain category of people, to which covid patients belong, for whom one wants to create financial protection. Patients of an epidemic or disaster victims for whom the cost of the service is covered by the BFM, as referred to in Article 101, or for whom an additional BFM is created on the basis of Article 101, shall not be charged additional costs in the form of non-refundable performance. The charges prohibited by Article 104 (2) of the Hospital Act generally concern additional costs in the form of non-reimbursable benefits. Therefore, no performance that is not reimbursed in any other way, for example through the nomenclature or the BFM, should be charged to covid patients. These include non-refundable medical fees, including those for clinical biology, paramedical fees, non-refundable medicines and parapharmaceuticals and non-refundable materials and implants. My administration was contacted about this issue, specifically with regard to the charge for clinical biology. If there were any more problems, I'll have this looked at. If necessary, I will have further clarification. I would point out that, with the same amendment, there is a very clear ban on the charging of supplements, pay supplements or room supplements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u29	Minister, I think that this legislation is clear to us, but it is often said by the sickness funds that there are still hospitals that charge non-refundable benefits. I hear you're aware of that. I hope that the hospitals will be informed more about this, because it is the patients who ultimately pay the bill for this. The aim of this amendment was to reduce their financial burden.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u30	Mr Patrick Prévot is not present. His question No 55025409C is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u31	Mr Minister, recently, the Belgian Association of Medical Trade Unions (ABSyM) has denounced an administrative and institutional heaviness that hinders the vaccination of patients by general practitioners in the context of the health crisis that we have experienced. ABSyM regrets that general practitioners cannot be directly supplied with vaccine vials, thus having to go to the pharmacy personally. In addition, ABSyM regrets that consultations on covid vaccination of a patient cannot be reimbursed like consultations on other vaccines. Have there been any consultations with medical unions in this context? Do you think their criticisms are well-founded? Do you believe that this results in barriers to covid vaccination by general practitioners? Are solutions being considered to meet their expectations and facilitate their efforts? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u32	Mrs Zanchetta, first of all, I would like to point out that the general practitioners' unions are associated with the vaccination task force through the Organisation working group within it. This working group also discusses the practical modalities of vaccination through channels other than vaccination centres. There is, therefore, a very close consultation with the doctors' unions. As I mentioned last week in the discussion of Bill 2460, I submitted to the Council of State a Royal Order regulating, among other things, the group's prescription(?) by the doctor and the delivery to the doctor or his authorised representative by the pharmacist of official. This royal decree will be published shortly after the bill. It shouldn't take much time. I recall that it is the federated entities that are responsible for the concrete deployment of the campaign. The timing and manner in which health care providers are deployed, whether they are generalists or pharmacists, depends on how the federated entities organize the campaign. For example, in some areas of Wallonia, general practitioners can pick up vaccines in satellite pharmacies rather than in vaccination centres, as is the case in Flanders. Mrs Zanchetta, I propose that my collaborator ask my cabinet for the estimated date of publication of this royal decree. This would provide you with accurate information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. I shall therefore await this further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u34	Minister, in the case of serious infectious diseases, patients are sometimes isolated, of course in hospitals. This was also the case with the covide epidemic, for example in collective residence institutions and asylum centres. My question is actually about patients in a psychiatric hospital who, because of their isolation in a isolation room, no longer had contact with their families. For example, the persons concerned were not willing or able to comply with the quarantine. A recording with confinement is actually a forced recording. It is used in certain cases in the case of mental illness, following the intervention of the peace judge and the prosecutor. That procedure has been intertwined a few times lately. In that case, the mental illness lies at the root of the coercion, not the infection. In addition, there are different rules for decisions on quarantine, isolation, treatment and vaccination options and the general epidemiological situation. Can an institution only decide to isolate a patient in a corona outbreak? Is there a distinction between hospitals, psychiatric hospitals and residential care centres? What checks are being carried out to ensure that forced admission procedures in psychiatric hospitals are correctly applied? Have any infringements been reported during the pandemic, or is that still being evaluated? What specific measures are being taken to prevent patients with corona from being unduly forced into confinement as an isolation measure? That seems to me to be a very delicate subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u35	Mrs De Block, this is definitely a delicate subject. The compulsory admission or co-location is regulated by the law of 26 June 1990. A number of conditions must be met in order to be required to be included. First of all, one must have a psychiatric condition. Secondly, there must be a serious risk to personal health and safety and/or a serious threat to other people's lives or integrity. Thirdly, no other appropriate treatment should be available. Fourthly, if an urgent procedure is requested through the King's Attorney's Office, it must be made clear that the measure is urgent and that it is well argued. Covid is not currently one of the reasons for collocation, and I cannot imagine that, firstly, there would be a medical report that would refer to covid and, secondly, that a substitute would agree to use it as a reason for colocation. Something more theoretical, a person who would be completely psychotic as a result of covid may be forced into hospital, but then one would say that it is a psychosis and not a covid. It is possible to isolate a patient against her or his will because of an infectious danger. This is regulated for Flanders in the decree of 21 November 2003, in particular Article 47 § 1, whereby a Flemish health inspector can isolate a patient in a hospital department and/or in another suitable place. He or she can ask for police assistance to make sure the patient stays in that department. In fact, there is a similar situation for Flanders as for the forced admission because of a psychiatric condition, but because of a communicable disease. The big difference is that the Flemish health inspector makes the decision, not the prosecutor or the peace judge. If the patient refuses to stay in the isolation chamber or the cohort department, one can always call in the help of the Communities or the Regions, because this is a federated power over which the federal government has nothing to say. From your previous responsibility, you will remember, Mrs de Block, that when it comes to maintaining isolation or quarantine, one must always confess to the Communities. As for your first question, due to an infection risk, patients are placed in a risk chamber. For covid, when there's too many patients, that's a cohort department. In this case, a decision is made for the patient, but the patient agrees in principle. The patient is not locked up and/or there is no coercive measure to place the patient in the isolation room or in cohort department. The patient is convinced based on his or her medical condition. In my opinion, this applies to any institution, including, for example, a department for dementias in a residential care centre, where the consent of the guardian of the elderly can be obtained with dementia. The procedures are laid down in the Act of 26 June 1990 and the implementing acts. I am not responsible for this legislation, except for the transport of 112 means to hospitals designated by the prosecutor, but I cannot imagine, with the strictness of the law and the supervision of the prosecutor and/or the court of peace, that there would actually be abuse here. Figures for a forced admission involving covid should be requested from either the psychiatric hospitals or the justice system. I personally do not believe, however, that there would be any abuse, especially in so far as there is an arrangement with the Communities and the Regions. Finally, for a recording in a covid department, a PCR test is performed. If the test is negative, one does not end up in a covid department. If one is in such a department for a long time, one will no longer be infectious and move from that department to an ordinary room, depending on the Sciensano guidelines. These are the elements of response that were passed on to me by the Federal Public Health Service and in particular by a health inspector of the FOD.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I just thought it was a delicate situation. We'll get some questions around here from the grounds, from families. I know of someone who has been put in isolation for 23 days, although in their own room, but that is quite profound for someone who is slightly demented. I know the difficulties and understand the desire to avoid outbreaks, but if 23 days are not allowed to come to a window or even a window, it is quite shocking. The latter is not possible everywhere, our rest homes are not built to have a window in each room that offers a view to the outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u37	Madam President, I have an additional information. I wasn't quite sure, but the decision to sign Group Purchases lies with the King. Mrs. Zanchetta, the order has already been sent to the King. I hesitated a little, because my written answer was somewhat dated. The text will therefore be published, in principle, very soon. This will still solve part of the problem that is at the root of the question that you have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u38	Madam President, Minister, I come back to a question I asked you a few weeks ago in plenary. Is the federal government taking an initiative for a moment of national mourning? Last weekend I think was the ideal time, because it was just two years ago that the lockdown went in. We did not know at the time of my question that that would also be the first weekend after the introduction of code yellow. I have heard from the press that a lot of local mourning events have been organized, including the 'onuments'. This shows that there is a need for a moment of closure of a period in which we have had to leave people in an inhuman manner, and in which young people have lost part of their youth. They also need space and time to talk about it. For example, Reveil came up with great ideas to organize big events there. Is there anything on your mind in this connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u39	Mrs Creemers, I share your feelings. We officially count over 30,000 covid deaths. Those people, especially at the beginning of the pandemic, often died in tragic circumstances: isolated and without contact with the family. We shouldn't underestimate that trauma. Many people today have a feeling of relief because the worst of the epidemic seems to be over, and we must pay attention to that too. That sense of relief may prevail over the collective memory of the misery. But that misery remains very real with the families involved. So I absolutely share your opinion. That is why I support a beautiful initiative by the association Kunstwerken to create a number of landscape monuments throughout Belgium in the form of circular memorial and meeting places, so-called onuments. I promised a substantial grant to this organization. The Flemish Government has done the same, the result of which you can see in Drongen and in Kortrijk, and my colleague Annelies Verlinden was also present at such an inauguration. That monument is, in my view, a very moving image. It doesn't happen to be a circle. 'Corona' also means circle, there's a lot of symbolism in it. It is an idea of Bas Smets, a landscape architect from our country, who meanwhile also enjoys international fame. It's a nice initiative, also because it's something permanent. Thanks to the additional federal support to this non-profit organisation, it will be possible to open a further monument in the outskirts of Brussels and in the south of the country, particularly in Charleroi, during the year. I think we should show ourselves as a federal government there and subsidise this initiative, just as the Flemish Government does. I am also thinking about how we can keep that memory alive and find other opportunities for it, more than just two years after the start of the first lockdown. I hope that this will be a good start.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u40	Minister, I fully share your opinion. I welcome that subsidy. An onument is more than a place and more than a monument. There are people who know a lot about collective mourning, such as Professor Elke Van Hoof, who we have already had on the committee and who are involved in the initiative. It's well thought out and could be a Band-Aid on the wound. In addition, it is indeed necessary to continue looking for opportunities to pay even more attention to this. As Minister of Health, perhaps together with the Prime Minister, you are the perfect person to stress that it is okay to be grieved and not okay with it, even for those who have not lost someone in their own environment. We have to deliver that message. We are facing enormous challenges around mental well-being, and if we give this mourning a place, that can help. I hope to hear from them soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u41	Mr Minister, once again I have a question about the sewer water, in particular about the detection of the omikron variant in it. Meanwhile, Sciensano has also determined by research that the signals in the sewer water are about three days ahead of positive tests. This makes it a very interesting tool to follow the evolution of virus spread, not only for corona, but also for other products, substances, viruses and other pathogens. I know that research is being carried out at the Rega Institute to determine the cause of the less good co-relation between the established cases of COVID-19 and the detection of omikron in wastewater. So there seems to be a little less to circulate at these peaks in the cases. Sciensano has already indicated this. We've been looking for reasons. I think one of the reasons might be that it rained a lot during that period. But it could also be that the omikron variant is less excreted. Is that also being investigated by Sciensano or other institutions? Did you know about that? I know this is being investigated in other countries too, but there is still very little information on it. My second question concerns continuous monitoring. If we cut down the PCR tests, which is recommended by several experts, we could monitor the virus spread a little bit more through the sewer water. The current monitoring is not very fine-meshed. You know I've asked questions about that before. That's why we're not able to detect real clusters. In other countries there is indeed more finer monitoring. Have you discussed further with the Länder whether finer monitoring can be used together with the waste water treatment plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u42	First of all, let me repeat what you yourself have said in a way. When a new variant appears, two factors must be taken into account as regards the monitoring of waste water: firstly, the maintenance of specificity of the detection methods for the new variant and, secondly, the degree of excretion of the variant in the stool, which may vary depending on the variant. For example, when delta appeared, it was assumed that the degree of excretion of an infected person was relatively higher. As regards omikron, verifications of the analytical method used have shown that it also detects omikron. Omikron is thus detected in wastewater, just like the other variants. Secondly, there is a suspicion, also in other European countries, that the excretion of the omicron variant via the stool is lower than in the delta variant. As a result, the concentrations measured in wastewater may be lower for a similar number of infected persons than omikron. However, this deviation has not affected our ability to follow the trends. So we are still able to detect and signal significantly changing trends, increase or decrease in wastewater. I'm going to go into that in a little more detail. Where the Rega Institute appears to have a less clear correlation between clinical cases and wastewater since the appearance of omikron, we do not see the same with Sciensano. Our follow-up to the correlations between the clinical cases on the one hand and the wastewater on the other, shows that they are identical for the period of the fourth wave outbreak, before the appearance of omikron, and those of the fifth wave, with a correlation coefficient of 0.57 for the respective periods of 15 October to 1 December and 15 December to 1 February. That's kind of interesting. The differences between the conclusions of the Rega Institute and those of Sciensano can be explained by the differences in the population and objectives followed. Sciensano works more at macro level, national scale, where we cover larger populations, up to 1 million inhabitants, for example the Brussels-North region. The aim of Sciensano is to focus on following trends, in order to detect new cases in a more global way. On that basis, I say "it's science," and as you know, science is rapidly evolving "that the rise of omikron has not affected our ability to follow trends in the circulation of SARS-CoV-2 and to give warnings based on our three indicators: rising trend, rapid increase and high circulation. I'm going to go into some more details now. The current monitoring of SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater allows us to monitor the circulation of the virus at about 45% of the population. For this purpose, 42 stations are linked to an area with high population density, spread over Belgium, sampled. Those 42 locations were selected specifically on the basis of statistical analyses, in order to comply with the epidemiological set-up adapted to the purpose of the instrument. For finer monitoring, one could use, for example, additional waste water treatment stations or one could do so at building or neighbourhood level. However, the inclusion of additional stations does not mean a linear increase in coverage of the population. Studies carried out by the Health and Health Agency, among others, have shown that sampling at building or district level requires important logistical efforts and that sampling is the largest bottleneck. In terms of costs and benefits, with only 42 water samples, we can already get a global picture, via the more (...) areas, of 45% of the Belgian population. It is possible to measure more finely, but there is therefore additional costs, without a proportional linear increase in the coverage of our sample. In summary, finer wastewater monitoring, i.e. in smaller areas, is possible, but actually serves a different purpose, namely cluster detection for contact monitoring. Moreover, this is a very different kind of surveillance from the national surveillance that is currently being carried out, which aims, among other things, to warn against a revival of the situation, at provincial, regional and national level. Local surveillance is also more complicated and expensive, see the AZG study for this. Moreover, it is impossible to cover the entire territory with such a finer network. It is therefore a question of making specific choices about the areas to be covered on the basis of public health objectives. For example, regions could decide to focus on a number of more critical nursing homes or schools. I would like to illustrate the role of the current gross surveillance with the example of a possible change from a low level of epidemic risk to a high level, similar to the transition from code yellow to code orange in the barometer. This transition could be determined by monitoring the waste water. Let us say that at the low risk stage there would be no monitoring of individual cases, because this is considered irrelevant, and that there would only be waste water monitoring, the determination of a recovery via wastewater could be used as a parameter for a transition to a higher level, where testing would again become important from an information point of view. In other words, the aim of national wastewater surveillance is not to control contacts, but to warn against a change in the trend, in the circulation of the virus, in particular to warn against the re-emerging of the virus and the need, for example, to move to a different level of management. This is how I see the pertinence of waste water monitoring at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u43	Minister, it is interesting to hear that the findings of the Rega Institute and Sciensano do not always agree. In that sense, it might be interesting to exchange those experiences post-covid, a period that hopefully will be there soon. Perhaps there should be a forum where scientists who have followed the epidemic in different ways can exchange their experiences and good practices. You indicated that science is constantly evolving. I am very aware of that. By chance, I just got a Twitter message. I don't think this meeting's streaming, so it's really a coincidence. There might be a problem with one of the probes that should detect the virus. It would bind less well, which could have an effect on quantitative PCRs in the detection of omikron. You can see it's constantly evolving. It has also become a whole debate in itself on Twitter. It's kind of interesting to follow. I really believe in that future of wastewater monitoring, not only for covid, but also for other germs and also for, for example, harmful substances.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u44	Mr Minister, following the debate in the Netherlands on mixing expert opinions and political decision-making in the corona crisis with influence on the advice of the OMT or outbreak management team by the government, I would like to know how the independence of the advisory bodies in our country is guaranteed. How is it avoided that the government can influence the opinions of, for example, the RAG and the GEMS? In the meantime, possible conflicts of interest were raised in the task force vaccination and the Supreme Health Council, but they have been refuted. However, questions can be asked, for example, by Professor Pierre Van Damme, I choose a random person - who has received EUR 20 million from the federal government for the construction of Vaccineopolis. For the other half of the funds, private partners, for example the pharmaceutical industry, are being looked at. Do you think that there is a possible conflict of interest? Is our investigation into the decision-making process going on? Is there a way in which you will be sufficiently watched?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u45	Mrs Gijbels, representatives of the decision-making process do not take part in the meetings of the RAG. The opinions of the RAG shall only be communicated to the decision-making bodies, such as the RMG, the IMC and the OCC, when such opinions are final. Afterwards, the content of the opinions will no longer be altered, only clarified if relevant, and that too is very exceptional. After the decision, opinions will also be made public on the website of Sciensano, where you can find a link to "scientific information - RAG" so that you can evaluate whether or not an opinion has been followed. It is quite obvious that we do not have any influence on advice from the RAG or the GEMS in this way. You're asking for potential conflicts of interest. For the different expert groups, the experts should report their potential conflicts of interest. It is then up to the coordinating body for the RAG to assess the potential impact of a given conflict and to determine whether or not the expert can take part in an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which was rather short. You did not talk about the possible conflict of interest in, for example, Vaccineopolis, nor did you answer the question of whether the decision-making process is being examined or controlled. I will continue to find out exactly how that works with us and whether there are no gaps in the system, because it is very important that the system is waterproof.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u47	Minister, this issue was raised last week in questions from colleagues, but I wanted to know if you have any additional information on the treatment of covid vaccine waste. If that is not the case, you may consider my question to be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u48	Last week's question was broader and concerned everything related to waste, so I said it was not my competence. I can give you this specific answer. The procedure for the destruction of expired vaccines stored in the vaccination centres and regional hubs is managed by the vaccination centres themselves, under the responsibility of the Länder. The procedure for the destruction of vaccines in our federal stock will be carried out by an authorised and authorised firm with the necessary certificates. As regards the quantity of expired vaccines in the stocks of the federated entities, so far, 105,765 doses of vaccines had to be destroyed according to official figures. Destruction may result from incorrect treatment or from the expiry date being exceeded. Some expiry dates may be due to the fact that a thawed vaccine that is only a limited time shelf life could not be administered in time. Currently, 24,700 doses of vaccines have fallen into federal stock and will be destroyed. As regards donations, Belgium has authorised donations of COVID-19 vaccines through two international mechanisms, either through the COVAX-Gavi Alliance mechanism or through bilateral donation through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism (UCPM). As regards this latter mechanism, three of which were implemented, Belgium has given AstraZeneca vaccines to Tunisia, Vietnam and Uganda. I can provide the detailed table to the secretariat. For each shipment of vaccines to a third country, the Belgian Public Health Office shall inform the receiving country, inter alia, of the conditions for proper storage, the dose provided, the method of storage required by the company, the certificate of conformity and the storage in Belgium. The transport of the vaccines to the receiving country is carried out in accordance with the quality storage procedures, in particular thanks to transport material specifically provided by Belgium which ensures the proper storage of the products until they arrive at the recipient. The recipient country will then be responsible for monitoring the quality of the vaccines given by Belgium and should ensure that they are kept in good condition until they are administered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u49	Mr Minister, once the vaccines have been imported into a country, they are, of course, the responsibility of the country itself. My question was about Nigeria. It is a good thing that the preservation requirements are passed along, but the press is still saying that in Nigeria, and that will certainly not be the only country in Africa, the destruction of vaccines goes wrong. It can lead to major risks if they just land on a landfill, without destruction according to the directives. As a country, Belgium is not in a position to do anything about it, but perhaps it can be mentioned again in the international consultative bodies in which the government is located.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u50	Minister, many young people have already received vaccination, some even a booster shot. However, vaccination rates, including among young people, vary widely in the different parts of the country. In the autumn it will be blown with the students' immunity, especially if we want to keep the schools open as a matter of priority. Is the immunity of young people still being respected? Do you have studies designed to determine the natural immunity or serology of young people? We must certainly bear in mind that young people can continue to attend school in the autumn if they are to have a flare-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u51	Mrs Depoorter, the following serological studies have been coordinated by Sciensano. First, there is a study of the residents of Belgian residential care centres until December 2022. A second study concerns the general Belgian population aged 18 and over, which runs until April 2022, with an extension until December 2023 which has been planned but not yet approved. A third serological study is carried out in the Belgian blood donors until December 2022, where an extension to 2023 is planned but not yet approved. Mrs Schellens will give you a web link where you will find more information. You raise a policy question about guaranteeing open schools in the autumn. I agree with you that this is a top priority and that we can make good use of such studies. However, I would like to broaden this matter to what I mentioned earlier. It is very important that we switch on time with our testing strategy and quarantine strategy. All this discussion, and what I have already said in previous answers, is that we must not think that the epidemic is over. The virus's still running, and there's still some unknown data. It comes down to building our defense lines quickly again. This includes the testing strategy. That's why it's good that the IMC now has some kind of test barometer. We need to be able to respond fast enough. Monitoring wastewater may be part of this, along with other actions. We must also continue to think about vaccination, including of young people and children. We know this is a difficult discussion. Your question is, on the one hand, an incentive to conduct these investigations and, on the other hand, to have a high level of preparedness with our defence lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u52	Minister, we must indeed be ready and think about matters, but I am sorry that there is no specific study on young people and children. After all, the three examples you cite are not directed towards that category. For parents who doubt the vaccination of their children, it would be relevant to see that their child does not yet have antibodies. A study might convince them to proceed with vaccination. We all know that vaccines protect and that it is also important that children are adequately protected. When we see what is happening in countries where zero tolerance is applied and where less vaccination is applied, we see that it is a real danger if people have not yet built up immunity, either naturally or through vaccination. I therefore believe that it would be an additional incentive to know where an additional effort can be made. I will certainly come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u53	Madam President, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of immunocompromised patients, but also of fragile patients with serious chronic conditions. We know that the vaccine and the third and fourth doses that they have been given will not be enough to protect them. If the pandemic situation in Belgium improves, even if the contamination increases again with the variant BA.2, immunocompromised patients remain fragile and continue to confine themselves for fear of being infected. It is crucial to have the weapons to protect and treat them when the diagnosis is made. I would therefore like to discuss with you the issue of monoclonal antibodies and antivirals. Currently, we only have Xevudy in Belgium, a monoclonal antibody that is not optimal because the BA.2 variant seems to resist it. Studies have shown this again recently. Paxlovid is the preferred treatment for newly infected immunocompromised patients. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has approved it. However, according to my information, it is still not available in Belgium. You announced a contract for 10,000 doses. Is this final? Why are we acting so late? Germany has ordered 1 million doses, France 500,000 doses and treatment has been available for several weeks. When will patients benefit from this treatment in our country? Evusheld is also recommended by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for prophylactic use against variant BA.2. These are monoclonal antibodies, as part of a dual therapy. The Task Force Therapeutics reportedly issued a notice requesting the order of 10,000 doses, provided that EMA issued a marketing authorisation or a positive early use opinion. So, have you also ordered or planned to order the Evusheld? What about this reserve of the Task Force Therapeutics? Is this not likely to increase Belgium's delay for these patients? Could you clarify the position of the government and the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (FCHI) on this issue? Like other regulatory agencies in EU Member States, do you not think it is important to take responsibility for providing access to Evusheld without delay to Belgian patients? I think it's a major issue. Immunocompromised patients and their care physicians should have these treatments available. These are, next to the vaccine, capital for our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u54	Madam Chair, I'm just going to ask my questions to save a little time. Minister, here are my questions about this. When will the Paxlovid be available in Belgium? Why did you only order 10,000 doses of this medication? Will that be enough in your opinion? Are you considering ordering more? What about Evusheld, which protects immunocompromised patients preventively? This treatment has been available in France since January, but it is still not available at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u55	I will start by saying something about Lagevrio or Molnupiravir. Then something about Evusherd and then about Paxloid. Finally, apart from these therapeutics, I will end by saying something about the BA.2 variant and what we need to think about in relation to the therapeutic arsenal. So I'll start with Lagevrio. Lagevrio (monulpiravir) has not yet received approval from EMA. However, a procedure has been authorised for early use in Belgium, for epidemic outbreaks in nursing and nursing homes and for use in an ongoing clinical trial with general practitioners. Sciensano was asked to give a definition of a COVID-19 outbreak in the context of residential care centres. Sciensano proposed a broad definition, namely "two or more infections in residents where there is a link between the cases of time and/or space." As regards the number of cases, Sciensano therefore opted for a minimum number of infections among residents exceeding one isolated infection. Living conditions for people in residential care centres make it difficult to comply with physical distance maintenance measures. The possibilities for access to molnupiravir in an outpatient setting are explained on the website of the Belgian Health Knowledge Centre. Belgium has a total volume of more than 11,000 treatments of molnupiravir, which can still be extended. If necessary, the COVID Therapeutics Task Force will also issue an opinion on this issue. The precise elements of the contract in which the procedure with molnupiravir takes shape are confidential. So let's say we defined what we want to do with it. There are also treatments available. It can therefore be deployed, but there is no EEA authorisation yet. As regards Evusheld, on 18 January the Council of Ministers approved the purchase of 10,000 doses of Evusheld from AstraZeneca. The purchase is conditional on a positive opinion of the EEA or conditional market authorisation by the EEA. Pistes for concrete operationalisation will be developed in the coming weeks. The indication area of this medicine has not yet been determined by the EEA. The patient population targeted by the Task Force "COVID Therapeutics" for the use of this prophylactic medicinal product includes persons suspected that vaccination against COVID-19 did not produce the desired immune response. These are, for example, people who have undergone organ or stem cell transplantation and people who are undergoing certain immunosuppressive cancer treatments such as anti-CD20 or cyclophosphamide. The use of the medicinal product may be made dependent on an antibody test that demonstrates ineffective immunity. In this way, we are assured of an effective use of resources. I'll give you some technical details. It is an anti-spike antibody concentration or titre of less than 260 binding antibody units per milliliter. That is what one wants to technically test to know if it is indeed appropriate to use Evusheld. Paxloid is actually a combination of nirmatrelvir and ritonavir, which appears to have promising results in a population at risk of developing a severe form of COVID-19. However, in its opinion, the Task Force took into account the uncertainty regarding efficacy, safety and good use, particularly in an older and/or polymed population. The medicine has been tested in a non-vaccine population. More than 90% of the population enrolled in the clinical trial was younger than 65. There are no clinical data to confirm its efficacy against the omikron variant. In addition, the effectiveness figures must be interpreted with great caution. The relative reduction in the risk of hospitalisation or death is 88 %. The absolute reduction in the risk of hospitalisation or death is 5.5 %, but there is still a high degree of uncertainty about this. Almost 18 patients should be treated to prevent 1 additional hospitalisation, or death. This figure is expected to be higher when used in a vaccinated population. Information about the interpretation of these figures can be found on the website of the Knowledge Centre. In addition to the active substance, Paxlvid also contains the component ritonavir. This is a protease inhibitor that can also cause serious interactions with other medicinal products at low doses. The fact that Paxlovid should be initiated within five days of the first symptoms also makes it not clear that its effective use is not evident. In short, Paxlovid was approved by EMA. The first delivery of this medicine is expected in the first quarter of 2022. However, no specific delivery schedule has currently been communicated by the firm. As regards the comparison between the quantity of Paxlovid ordered by Belgium and the quantities ordered by neighbouring countries, we cannot confirm the figures cited, in particular for the order made by the Netherlands. The content of the contracts is confidential. We will join the European joint procurement procedure when the European Commission organises such a joint procurement with Pfizer. The task force is seeking to monitor closely the development of the various systems set up abroad with regard to the distribution of medicines against COVID-19. These can serve as an inspiration, but it is important to take into account the specific characteristics of each health system. We must set up a distribution system adapted to the particular characteristics of our country. With regard to the use of Paxlovid, an appropriate distribution system is currently being analysed within the Covid Therapeutics Task Force. This analysis is carried out in close collaboration with the AFMPS, the Public Health FPS, and the various professional associations. These different actors are working together to analyse the various possibilities for establishing a distribution system suitable for the specificities of Paxlovid and Belgium, as soon as possible. The possibilities currently discussed are, on the one hand, limited to high-risk patients in the context of a telemonitoring project approved by INAMI and, on the other hand, the possibility for specialist doctors to prescribe Paxlovid to their immunocompromised patients. In both situations, it is important to check whether the patient is taking any other medication that may contraindicate the use of Paxlovid. A prescription distribution procedure will also be drafted by the Taskforce in close cooperation with each of the above mentioned actors. Finally, the BA.2 omikron variant is on its way to becoming the dominant variant in Belgium. This variant certainly seems to escape in vitro from the existing monoclonal antibodies. Where Xevudy, sotrovib, was still somewhat effective in vitro for the BA.1 omicron variant, this is no longer the case for the BA.2. This may affect the early treatment of corona in immunocompromised individuals treated with asymptomatic infection with Xevudy. An alternative approach is therefore provided for. This will consist, on the one hand, of the possibility of prophylactic administration of Evusheld to immunocompromised individuals who did not respond adequately to vaccination, even though the protection by Evusheld against the omicron-BA.1 and BA.2 variant may also be somewhat less. In addition, oral antivirals such as Lagevrio and Paxlvid will also be made available for those individuals after infection, even though there is currently no clinical evidence of efficacy in that particular target group. Veklury, i.e. remdesivir, is also shown to be effective to avoid hospitalisation with early administration, but the schedule requires intravenous administration three days in a row, which is difficult in practice in an outpatient corona patient. Finally, it is important to realise that there are currently no clinical studies comparing different treatments. It is therefore not currently possible to tell which treatment is most effective. So there is still a great deal of uncertainty. So, in a context of great uncertainty, we must try to do as much as possible therapeutically as we can. Our task force, which I am trying to strengthen right now, is doing the same. However, immediate miracles are not to be expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. The lines are therefore moving therapeutically in relation to these patients, but I find that in Belgium the lines are moving too slowly. I echo here very many medical specialists who follow these immunocompromised patients with heavy, chronic and severe pathologies. We do not yet have at home, while other countries have already operated these weapons, sufficient means to deal with and save the lives of these patients. You often put forward the Lagevrio, which is not approved. But today it seems obviously not therapeutically interesting. As far as the Evusheld is concerned, you highlight the fact that it is not yet actually endorsed at EMA level; but the Lagevrio no longer and yet you have ordered it. I would really like to insist that you be able to operate the purchase of the Evusheld and not condition it in the opinion of EMA. Belgium is very much behind the neighbouring countries which already have it. It is still important to say that the Evusheld is active against BA.2. BA.2 will become an extremely fast majority in Belgium. It's the same for the Paxlovit. Good: doses will finally arrive in the first quarter of 2022. It's already March 16th. I hope there's only a week or two left before receiving them. Again, I am surprised when comparing with France: 500,000 doses, Germany, 1 million doses, Luxembourg, 20,000 doses. When you compare the populations, you realize that in Belgium, a really small number of doses have been ordered, which seems insufficient. Let me really insist and plead that we have enough weapons. " Immunocompromised patients are coded red, " said the specialist in this recent white card. They're gonna stay in red code." It is therefore up to you, as Minister of Health, to make available to doctors the weapons of prevention and treatment for infected immunocompromised patients, to truly save their lives and to properly assume the care of these extremely fragile patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. There is some slowness in my view that people who are immunocompromised or are waiting for treatment that works are having difficulty living. I will listen to your answer and the information you have given and return to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm still worried about the contracts. You're referring again to secret contracts. The modalities agreed for a further order cannot be released. That's the same story as the vaccines. I was particularly surprised that corona Commissioner Pedro Facon stated in committee on the vaccination obligation that Paxlovid was ordered, but did not confirm that an extension of the order could take place. Who knows the contracts? Are you sure you will be able to order extra or is Pedro Facon wrong? He said 10,000 were ordered and that's it. I have asked many times for the extension of these contracts. I noticed in Pedro Facon's answer that he didn't confirm that. The fact is that there is a fear of shortages of Ritonavir. If you want to reorder Paxlovid, it will depend on whether the company will touch enough Ritonavir, as Ritonavir is also used for HIV patients. That is my great concern. You may rest assured that you will be able to order more of these medicines, as you have said repeatedly, but I doubt that. I hope you have a 100 percent guarantee that you will be able to order Paxlvid for the patients who need it. I see fewer problems with the production or delivery of Molnupiravir. I would have liked to be guaranteed that we can provide our patients with that. You say that it is not yet possible to distribute it out of work because you are working with clinical studies and there is no EEA approval yet. Perhaps a clinical study could also be set up for patients staying in a service flat. These are the patients who are now falling out of the boat and who are very vulnerable. With the limited quantities you have ordered, you will not be able to get there in the autumn at any subsequent wave. So make sure that you can provide our patients with those virus inhibitors, because we will need them. Mrs Fonck has just quoted the numbers. In previous discussions, you have always told me that we have about ordered what the neighbouring countries have ordered, but that really does not seem to be the case. I've read the task force's advice. I found that very conservative myself. I understand that we are in scientifically difficult times, but we still have to be predictable. In autumn, in addition to the hygiene measures and vaccinations, which you rightly mention, the virus inhibitors will be an essential pillar. We need to make sure that we have sufficient resources at our patients' disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u59	Minister, the last recommendation of the Special Committee on COVID was that the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health should report to the Chamber by 15 March 2022 and thereafter annually on the implementation of the recommendations. Something about this ended up in our mailbox last night. We have just received a report on the state of play. Minister, the Coronac Commissioner will cease to exist very soon. The report announces that a covid focal point will be set up, both at the Crisis Centre and in the Public Health Office, if I understand correctly. What are we supposed to do about that? What does the covid Focal Point look like? Does that take over the duties of the Coronac Commissariat? Has the transfer already happened? Is that job taken up by one person? We have received a written report, but will the situation be further clarified? When will that happen? Will the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Interior also be present? The report sets out certain points of pain and highlights improvements. Yet they remain vague. I fully understand that such changes and process changes require time. However, we do not always have the same amount of time, especially in crisis situations. We do not know what awaits us and how quickly a next health crisis is coming our way. What are your priorities in the report? What should be put in order for you first?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u60	Mrs Gijbels, my answer consists of several parts. We have tried to keep Parliament informed of the process with us. You have indeed received a document in the form of a slideshow, in which we indicate how we are responding to the recommendations of the special committee and how we think we should organise our preparedness. I think that's crucial, too. I hope you do not expect me to read the whole document here; that is not the intention. When I was a Member of Parliament, I asked the government to come and explain that report in the Chamber. It seems logical to me that we should present this at a joint meeting of the Committees on the Interior and Public Health, for example. As a Member of Parliament, I would think that is logical, and I think that we should do so. It is also a good challenge for the federal government to clarify and debate how it sees things. I can tell you a little bit more about the Focal Point. The English jargon used is terrible, but the bottom line is that we are creating some sort of binome, an ad hoc body with two heads, namely the Director-General of the National Crisis Centre and the leading official of the Crisis Management Department of the Public Health Office. Together they must lead that Focalpoint. That is not the same as the Coronac Commissioner, in the sense that the Commissioner has been explicitly understood by us as an institution, even with a real interfederal role. Although the Coronac Commissioner was, of course, a federal institution, it was still a spider in the web of an inter-federal process. The covid Focal Point, which we organize with the National Crisis Centre and the FOD, will have to coordinate the federal tasks if we are not in the federal phase. This concerns both the multidisciplinary and the sanitary tasks still linked to COOVID-19. On the other hand, we must continue to coordinate very closely with what the Länder are doing. We must therefore involve representatives of the Länder closely. That's the idea. It is not the same model as the Commissioner's, but of course it has the same intention, namely to ensure very good coordination, albeit in a post-federal phase and not in a federal phase anymore. I do not want to create a very heavy structure in this area. That is also a difference with the Commissioner, who has staff among other things. In fact, it is not intended to hold on to that staff, quite the contrary. The covid focal point is actually a small, administrative, identifiable unit, which ensures the necessary coordination. Of course, it is important that the National Crisis Centre and the Public Health Office, in this case the Crisis Management Service, have sufficient manpower and women to take good care of this. That's a bit of a challenge in itself. That's the idea. I do not know whether the explanation is sufficiently clear to you. This is also mentioned in the document that was forwarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u61	Minister, I had also asked you about the priorities that you want to put right quickly. Our group has already had it planned that a date will be sought for the settlement of the work in order to obtain further explanations from the government and perhaps also from the corona Commissioner, if possible. It would be interesting to hear him just before his resignation. You speak of the covid Focal Point and that sounds like it's very specific to covid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u62	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u63	I hope that other health crises will also be considered and that preparations will be made to be ready at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u64	That's a good point. The reflection that must result from all the experience is that, overall, preparedness must be good. We are not quite ready for that. The idea now is to do something about covid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u65	Mr Minister, you have actually almost answered my question. It deals with consultation on the co-ordination measures with the Länder. On 9 March, you sat with all the relevant ministers. However, I would like to know what decisions you will propose on the self-tests. I'm declaring myself. Today, the self-tests for people with increased benefits will be refunded. Until when is that refund provided for? You have already indicated your plans for the PCR tests and quarantine rules, but what direction do you intend to take with regard to the rapid antigen tests on travellers, because the CST for travel remains in place until 2023 at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u66	Mrs Depoorter, I have indeed given some answers, but I have not yet told you how we are faced with the self-tests and rapid antigen tests when travelling. With regard to rapid antigen tests on travel, since 7 March the recovery certificate is also delivered on the basis of a RAT with positive results between the 11th and the 180th day before arrival. As far as recovery is concerned, the RAT is now also involved. For the rest, we have not made any recent changes. You know that the RAT also plays for returning travellers who are not resident in Belgium and do not have a vaccination, test or recovery certificate. They must undergo a test on day 1 of their return. That could be both a PCR and a RAT. It's gonna stay that way. I do not immediately foresee any changes to this. We are in a European context. It's about travel. As you know, the approach to passenger traffic has been relaxed. What remains is, among other things, what I have said here, namely that non-residents who do not have vaccination, testing or recovery certificates must be tested. The RAT plays in that. I don't think we're gonna change that. As far as the self-tests are concerned, I will give you my personal opinion. I think we should stabilize that. The idea that we make self-tests available cheaply for people with preferential rights I would maintain. I can't say by heart whether there's a deadline for that decision. I don't think so, honestly. I'd be surprised. I don't remember either. I should check it out. But I don't think we should let go of the reimbursement system now. By the way, you'll be happy to hear it, and I'm not saying it to please you, but the reimbursement system is a way of letting people go to the pharmacist to get an explanation there. I therefore think it is a good element in the whole. I'm not gonna propose to step away from it. I would like to keep it stabilized this way. For the rest, I think I have given answers in answering the previous questions. As far as CST is concerned, we have different opinions. I keep thinking that CST is a good instrument in principle. I am talking about an instrument for people who participate in activities that are slightly more risky, such as meeting at the café, in the restaurant, in cultural activities, at events, in discotheques. When dealing with a serious epidemic, partial protection can be organised by obliging people to submit a certificate. That could be evidence of vaccination, recovery or a negative test. I think that makes sense. I do not agree with the criticism of the CST, which, in my view, confuses two criticisms. The first criticism is about what message has been given and whether it has not led to people thinking within the framework of the CST that they could afford anything, which is unsafe. The second criticism is that if such instruments are correctly pointed out and explained to the public what it means and why, or in a context of a serious epidemic, it could be useful again. The answer to that question is affirmative to me, but I know that not everyone feels that way. That is not the end of the discussion on the Conciliation Committee either. There has been a reference to a report of the debate on this subject in the Flemish Parliament. We are still waiting for the report on the debates that have taken place here, but I personally continue to think that the CST is a useful instrument. Since I think so, I also think that we should ensure that this is on a watchful flame and that, if necessary, we can reactivate it without having to go through lengthy legal and legal procedures. However, the Consultation Committee has not yet taken a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u67	Minister, we disagree on the latter, but we will still have that discussion. I'm sure of that. For me, that continues to give a false sense of security. If I refer only to the plenary sitting last Thursday and to the indulgence of colleagues who were close to each other and felt safe, then I think that discussion will continue to be effective. As far as the reimbursement of the self-tests is concerned, I naturally agree with you that this increased benefit also ensures that vulnerable patients are properly supervised in the pharmacy. I asked this question because I didn't find a date of cessation anywhere. It is important to know whether this measure will remain in force in the autumn or not. That is certainly reassuring in this one. As far as travel is concerned, I think that, especially as society is becoming more and more open, we should continue to focus on this rapid antigen test and on accessibility, both at doctors and pharmacists, in order to be tested.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u68	I propose that Mrs Schellens check with Mr De Ridder to see if there is an end date for that royal decision whereby we provide for compensation for self-testing. I don't think so, but Mrs Schellens can ask that question and give us the answer so that we can be sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u69	As a result, there are now combitests covid and influenza on the market. I suspect that, towards the autumn, these combi-tests will be bought rather preferentially. Today, the rapid antigen test is reimbursed in combination when it is taken at the pharmacy, but it is likely that the self-tests will also follow. Then it will also have to be made into a royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u70	We have to look at that. I think this is a point of discussion, but that is a point of policy that we should come back to later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic724x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament 55026087C by Mrs Gijbels is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55026034C by Mrs Zanchetta was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55025789C, 55025781C, 55025790C and 55026022C of Mrs Merckx are postponed.
