ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u1	Madam Minister, the reason for my questions is the government's decision last Monday to take a number of measures, namely the reduction of VAT on natural gas and electricity to 6% from April to September, i.e. during the spring and summer months. This gives a gas family 73 euros. I know Mr Wollants is using a different number, but well, it's in that order of magnitude. However, a VAT reduction for the whole year would amount to EUR 450. This is because in the period from April to September only 17.5% of annual gas consumption takes place. The government also reduces excise duties on fuel by 17 euro cents per litre, which is a lot less than previously announced 24 euro cents per litre. People who heat with fuel oil get 200 euros. The social tariff will be renewed for another three months. The net cost of that agreement, if the additional VAT revenue is deducted, is EUR 200 million. I therefore have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. Why did the government decide to reduce VAT only in spring and summer? Do you really intend to raise VAT again to 21 % just before winter in September? I cannot imagine what reaction this will bring to the population. Why are excise duties on fuel reduced by only EUR 17 cents per litre instead of the higher amount previously announced? The heating premium of 200 euros applies per place of residence. What if a number of families share a fuel boiler, which happens in apartment buildings, is there a heating premium per family? How's that gonna go? Poverty organisations have been asking for months to make the extension of the social tariff permanent. Why don't you still do that? Meanwhile, the war in Ukraine continues to explode energy prices. For natural gas, the price peaked to 300 euros per megawatt hour. Such tariffs are pure madness. Prime Minister De Croo also said that the liberalised energy market is irrational. There's pure panic on the market. The price peaks show the irrationality of liberalisation. A price that goes twenty times for energy is simply unrelated to all reality, but it all has very concrete, catastrophic consequences for people, families, small self-employed and SMEs, while the stock market speculators rub their hands in the hands. In response to the crisis, you advocated a freeze on European energy prices at European level. In concrete terms, you worked for a price cap on the gas price. Prime Minister De Croo launched a similar proposal, which I would like to ask, and talked about a cap on the price of imported gas, so that gas cannot be sold or traded above that maximum price in the EU, and where the EU then negotiates with other countries outside the market for the continued supply of natural gas below that maximum price. Madam Secretary, could you give me more details on your specific proposal for price freeze? At what price level do you wish to freeze prices if necessary? Is the price frozen for suppliers or the retail market, or for producers or the wholesale market? Is there a cost to the Member States, how big is it and how do you intend to finance it? When does the price freeze go in and how long does it last? Do you have more details about Prime Minister De Croo's proposal, or is it exactly the same? What are the differences with your proposal? At what level does the Prime Minister intend to make that cap? Who is negotiating with third countries? How do you guarantee that the other countries will continue to supply gas? How did the other European countries respond to your proposal? Is there any work in the short term on a concrete European proposal for price freeze? How do you estimate the chances that it will be effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u2	Mr Warmoes, with all due respect, we're keeping some statistics. You have spoken for 4 minutes and 12 seconds to deal with your three questions. I dare to suggest that the following speakers leave the list of government measures and focus on their effective questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u3	Madam Secretary, you met with energy poverty organisations last week. At that time, of course, there was no final decision on the third aid package. Can you explain the results of these discussions? What are your expectations regarding regional authorities and their powers? A fast energy transition is indeed filled with less heating via fossil fuels. Your party has already made a start on Friday's decision. What, however, should be done with existing homes without underfloor heating? For people who benefit from the social tariff and who are in energy prematureity, this is the case in structural terms. The perfomance of a heat pump is rather low without underfloor heating. Sometimes heat pumps are not even technically feasible. I'm thinking air-water heat pumps and geothermal heat pumps. Air-to-air heat pumps can of course be placed anywhere. So you can reduce the tax burden on heat pumps and on solar panels, but they must be practically implemented on a large scale. Is there a need for a structural extension of the anchoring of the social tariff? I think so. In the current context, poverty organisations also consider it necessary to freeze the social tariff. As far as the cap of the gas price is concerned, you used a kind of two-stage rocket. First, you communicated on 28 February of the European Council of the EU. You said that you would already mention the case of capping, and even the marginal pricing model. However, in retrospect, according to the briefing, it was not mentioned in the press briefing, and all the attention was paid to support for the stability of the Ukrainian network and synchronisation with the European networks. It must be said that some of the ideas you gave in the press after the European Council ended up in REPowerEU, which was proposed by the European Commission on 8 March. Which of the guidelines and new possibilities for emergency measures are there a lot of R &amp; D and REPowerEU do you want applied in the Belgian context? What possibilities do you see for increased imports of LNG into Belgium through other non-Russian suppliers and for increased production volumes and imports of methane and renewable hydrogen? Finally, I come to my question about last Friday's discussion with the employers' federations on the affordability, supply and dependence of Russia. You wanted to ask the employers' federations about the role of industry and employers in reducing dependence on fossil fuels. Can you explain the results of this discussion? Mr President, I am very good, I have listened very carefully to you and I have confined myself to the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would first like to welcome the agreement that has been reached. This is an important agreement which I think was necessary. It is in addition to the two previous packages of urgent measures to support the payment of citizens' energy bills, which had really become inconvenient for people. With pumploads exceeding two euros a litre, it became clear that it had become urgent for the government to take action. By extending the social tariff, lowering the VAT on gas to 6%, by granting aid of EUR 100 for fuel oil, you have clearly, I think, sent the necessary signals. This aid exceeds EUR 1.3 billion. I think it is very clear that this first social shield or bulwark was expected. However, this is not enough and it is clear that, if these measures were necessary and urgent, they will not necessarily reduce structurally the exorbitant cost of gas, oil and other energy imports. So my question is simple: how are you going to further develop renewable energy? By doing so, I intend to step up and accelerate the federal government's efforts to invest in the energy transition. I'm also thinking about supporting isolation. Finally – this will be my last question – I know that you were the first at European level to argue in favour of price blockade, and I also know that Ursula von der Leyen took up this idea. What is the position of the European Commission in this reflection on the capping of gas prices at European level? I think it's important. Measures are really expected at both European and Belgian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u5	I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u6	My questions fall apart in two shutters. The first part concerns the measures already taken, and specifically the difference in treatment between fuel oil consumers and gas consumers. The price of natural gas has risen much more than the price of fuel oil. For one reason or another, fuel consumers receive approximately twice as much support as gas consumers. How come you didn't want to make a distinction in the federal heating premium with the same numbers, so everyone would get the same? This is no longer the case. Why is that? At the press conference, you said that it is both EUR 200, one for the reduction of electricity and gas, the other for the fuel oil premium. However, the fuel oil consumers also consume electricity. What are the different estimates of the impact of the VAT reduction, both of natural gas and electricity? Do you have a view of the distribution between the regions? The second part concerns the freezing of gas prices. Much has already been said about where it has been proposed and so on. Can you give us an insight into this freeze at European level? How's it going right now? How is it financed? Is that feasible? After all, there are also a number of countries that sell gas in this context. It is by chance those countries that have already spoken out against it. Sometimes there is also talk of a Belgian freeze. Has there ever been any research into what that means in terms of cost, effects on the supplier and so on? Can you give us some insight into that or is that perhaps not at all on the table in the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u7	Monsieur Ben Achor is not present. Mr Van Lommel is not here either, nor is Mr De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u8	Madam Minister, I will confine my intervention in this topical debate to the last two lines of my reply last week. The energy transition must also remain affordable, because the invoice will end up with the citizens. Do you take that as an essential part of your policy? As an intermediate step, gas plants should be limited as far as possible. Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u9	I would like to thank the Members present for their questions. I have received a lot of questions from a lot of people, but the number of people interested in the theme is apparently limited in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u10	You know that people in this House like to repeat themselves. You'll probably get the same questions tomorrow. This is a warm-up for the questioners and the ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u11	Let us start with the answers to the questions that have been asked today. It is unnecessary to repeat that we are experiencing the biggest energy crisis ever. Prices for heating, electricity prices and pump prices have risen to historic heights. This problem has only become more urgent as a result of the war in Ukraine. Our families, businesses and our economy as a whole are affected by rising invoices, on the one hand, and dependence on oil, gas and uranium, as Mr Cogolati said, on the other. On Monday, the government indeed adopted a third aid package for six months. This time it is a total amount of EUR 1.3 billion to reduce energy bills in the short term. These are measures that apply to families and businesses alike. As regards families, the extension of the social tariff extension group shall apply at least until the third quarter of 2022. The impact on the invoices for these people, 1 million families, is 2.230 euros. They will therefore have to pay less than €2,230 on their energy bill. It is a protection of the most vulnerable in this society. Recent research by KU Leuven also shows that this is a very effective measure, and also the best shock absorber to support the lowest income bill. I have already said here that everyone is having difficulty with the rising invoices, from families to companies. Within these groups there are very different situations. It's not about organizing competition. Just imagine that we would not have taken that measure and what it would have meant for 1 million Belgians if they had not had that protection. The extension of the social tariff took place in February 2021. Those people have been protected since energy prices started to rise, i.e. from the summer of 2021 and by the measures taken in October 2021, February 2022 and now. That is a good thing, because, like everyone else, they are, of course, also confronted with rising prices for other things, such as food. In addition to this very targeted social tariff measure, we have also decided on the double VAT reduction, in particular an extension of the reduced VAT on electricity and the introduction of reduced VAT on natural gas. As regards natural gas, it shall apply from April to September 2022. The VAT reduction on electricity is confirmed for the same period. Together, this will yield EUR 205 for a family with average consumption. That proposal was put on the table earlier by myself and Minister Van Peteghem and I am very pleased that it is being implemented. Anyone who heats with fuel oil, propane and butane gets a discount of 200 euros, because everyone is faced with high energy prices. Mr Wollants, it does not matter whether someone is Fleming or Waal or whether someone is heating their house with gas or fuel oil. I do not want to make a Community account of this. Today, 600,000 families in Flanders heat their homes with fuel oil. So I think that contradiction is misplaced. Moreover, it is striking that a Community comparison is being made with regard to fuel oil. We can also make it for diesel and the excise measures at the pump and look at the ratio of cars in Flanders and Wallonia. In your reasoning it could then be said that the Fleming benefits more or the Waal benefits less in view of the distribution of the cars. For us, however, it is not a Community story. Everyone is Belgian and whether they are Belgian, German or French, everyone is faced with rising prices in the same way. An average family gets around 300 euros off thanks to the various support measures. As far as the expectations of regional authorities are concerned, I have always said that both affordability and security of supply are a shared responsibility of the various governments in our country. This is also true in this area. The federal government and the Regions have their own powers. Our homes are Europe's second largest energy consumers. Unfortunately, it is like those with little or no savings who live in the least isolated homes. Therefore, the affordability of renovation and isolation is a very serious concern of the poverty groups I spoke to last week, in preparation for the government meeting. They know the situation on the ground like no other. They are not the loudest callers, but their voice deserves to be heard. In addition to their questions about the pressure on the invoice, they also had the very explicit demand to be more involved in the energy transition, for example when it comes to renovation and insulation. I was also with industry representatives, the self-employed and SMEs on tackling the price crisis. They are affected through the energy bill, but also through the purchase of materials and the supply and cost of labour. My proposal for a cap on the gas price at the European level and a coordinated European approach could well count on that. They also shared with me their concerns about the European energy supply through the war in Ukraine. They also support an acceleration of the energy switch to reduce energy dependency. Therefore, in addition to the measures for families, there were measures for companies. The National Bank is asked to examine in detail the impact of rising energy and raw materials prices on the various sectors by the end of April. It will also be possible to examine what policy measures can be taken. This is somewhat parallel to the study on the energy standard. We need to look closely at how we can find complementarity in this. It was also decided to extend temporary unemployment for the period from 1 April to 30 June. Then there is the measure relating to the excise duty on the pump, a reduction of 17,5 cents per litre, i.e. a reduction of EUR 10 on a 60 litre tank. In addition, the ticket prices for SNCB have been frozen. So the planned price increases are not going through that. As Mr Cogolati said, it is actually a painkiller, because it does not attack the cause. As Mr Cogolati said, it is a painkiller, because it does not remove the cause of rising prices, namely the dependence on expensive fossil energy. We are too dependent on fossil fuels today, which is the cause of rising energy prices. Of course one cannot work with painkiller after painkiller, but one has to deal with the problem in a structural way. It is for this reason, Mr Cogolati, that we are discussing within the government today structural measures in relation to the energy transition, an acceleration of it, in order to increase the resilience of our economy, our society and to increase independence from energy imports. As you know, we are now importing 90% of our energy and it is clear to all that this must be reduced. Many of you had questions about the freezing of gas prices. That's what I suggested. The Belgian proposal was discussed in the European Energy Council. Mr Ravyts, you asked me why this is not in the press briefing. That is a result of two elements. A first element is the great geopolitical importance of the crisis in Ukraine, in which the concrete demand for a rapid interconnection of the Ukrainian electricity network was addressed through urgency. Given that the electricity infrastructure is targeted by the Russian army and that there is broad agreement between EU Member States to help balance the Ukrainian grid in this exceptional situation, the focus was logically on this aspect. There it was decided to give the mandate at the level of the ENTSO-E to identify risks and to find solutions to this link. The second reason is that, of course, several Member States have put forward proposals to reduce energy prices, but no agreement has yet been reached on the concrete method. Several proposals are circulating. The Commission is now examining this with great urgency in order to come up with a joint proposal. This is also reflected in the communication on REPowerEU. What is the proposal about? Mr Warmoes, my proposal and that of the Prime Minister is of course the same. It is the Belgian proposal. That proposal is to impose a ceiling at European level on the transactions that are taking place. That ceiling is set at an adequate level and EUR 120 and EUR 150 are the amounts circulating. This means that when the gas price reaches that level, it can no longer rise. That, of course, also has a different effect. This can have an impact on the supply of gas. I would, however, like to make the point that most of the gas imported into Europe is contracted. The full supply will not stop overnight, but there is a risk of an impact. Our proposal therefore consists of two parts. When the price cap is approached and the ceiling is reached, there will be a call for tender, i.e. a group purchase at European level, bilaterally, to ensure that there is sufficient supply to Europe. That has a double purpose. This will have a calming impact on the price, but above all it will take the volatility out of the market. The behaviour we see on the market today, the price we see on the market today, is completely irrational. There's no supply problem today. The gas is flowing. The contracts will be honoured and the TTF will be dealt with. LNG is also coming to Europe. There's no supply problem. However, today's prices give the impression that there would be a break. There's an irrationality. That irrationality is, of course, there because it is war. I'm not going to say that prices would be low without that irrationality. Of course we would know high prices. But the EUR 200 and 300 we saw at certain times is completely irrational. If that were to happen on the stock market, the stock market would be shut down. When a share makes such jumps, the stock price is simply shut down. That is actually what we are doing here, with a fallback, with a back-up mechanism to ensure that physical flows can still come to Europe and that we do not cause a supply crisis. The special feature of this is, and this distinguishes the Belgian proposal from other proposals, which also have an immediate impact on the electricity price by doing so at the gas price level. This almost leads to a de facto decoupling, a de facto reduction in the price of electricity. The marginal pricing for electricity is left intact. There was a hearing here earlier this week on the price mechanism. That is why the Commission is very interested in this proposal. The Prime Minister and I are in very close contact with the European Commission, with the regulator, in order to limit this proposal to further support. I think I have answered most of the questions. To answer your last question, Mr President, I think we should reduce our dependence on fossil fuels in all respects. Only talk about gas supply in the context of electricity generation is an extension of the situation. 50% of gas consumption today is for heating and is in the distribution network. Does this mean we're not looking at electricity generation? Certainly not, but it is a mistake to think that our problem is solved if we stop producing electricity through gas plants. Secondly, we are facing 20 years of standstill in our energy policy and a de facto core step that has not been sufficiently prepared in recent years. That transition through gas will always be necessary. Of course, we can and must examine the possibilities of limiting this. Decreasing dependence means reducing dependence on our entire fossil imports. We need to look at the full picture. Above all, we should not have the illusion that we can get rid of it by just focusing on one aspect of the story. My proposals to the government concern both gas and oil, mobility, electrification, renewable energy and electricity generation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u12	Madam Minister, with regard to the first part of my questions on the measures you have taken, you did not actually answer any questions. You are talking about 200 euros. I did a quick check. The measures you took on Monday amount to 118 euros. If you add EUR 65 for the reduction of VAT on electricity from March to June, if I am not mistaken, I will get EUR 183. You're doing a little double charge, but okay. The essence is that we simply do not understand that gas has become a basic product in summer and a luxury product in winter. You're actually throwing sand into people's eyes. Actually, you now give 6 % VAT at 17.5 % of gas consumption and the rest of the year, if you implement your plan, that will be 21 %. That's a gift for the people who warm their pool in the summer, but for the rest, for those who warm their house, that won't bring much. I have already said it 10 or 20 times, but once again gas and electricity are basic goods that need to be valued at 6%, not anymore. That must be permanent, because that is the only way to compensate for the expensive invoices in winter. As far as your proposals at European level are concerned, I understand that it is not yet concrete. I'm a little shocked by the level at which you want to freeze them. You have spoken from EUR 120 to EUR 150. I took a look at the day market today. Today, gas stands at 110 to 120 euros per megawatt hour. So you wouldn't freeze the gas price today. 120 to 150 euros is 8 to 10 times more than usual. Before the crisis it was 15 to 20 euros. You will only catch the high peaks, but that's all. That's what a lack of ambition is. As far as the irrationality of the markets is concerned, we heard this yesterday at the hearing. A stock exchange can be shut down, but not an energy market. This shows once again that the decision to liberalise the energy market is completely wrong and leads to all these situations. We are, of course, in favour of regaining control with the government through a different pricing mechanism. I'm pretty disappointed by your answers. They are small measures, but they will not solve people's problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u13	Madam Minister, in the future, if we want to get rid of our dependence on Russian gas supply and its impact on the European gas price, the solution is indeed renewable, and in our case nuclear energy. There is no doubt about that, even if we are only limited in dependence on Russia as only 5% to 6% of our gas comes from there. It would be very interesting if Green would dare to make that turn there. Then maybe we could even be friends. With regard to the heat pumps that you make a key point of your communication, I continue to point out from experience that not every house is suitable for an air-water heat pump and certainly not for a geothermal heat pump. That is the reality. It would be good, Mr President, if research were to be carried out on the number of Belgian dwellings involved. Perhaps this is also a task for the regional authorities. I believe that a very broad roll-out is simply not realistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u14	I think that in the medium and long term, we must agree that this is both an environmental issue, the protection of ecosystems and the climate in particular, a social issue, in order to erect a bulwark or a shield in the face of an increase in the bill, but also a geostrategic and national and even European security issue, since imports of gas, hydrocarbons, oil and, I say without taboos, uranium must be independent from Russia. Very clearly, when we see the price reductions of different energy sources, - 89% in ten years for wind energy, I believe that the way is clear for Belgium's future investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u15	Madam Minister, when it comes to the difference between gas and fuel oil, it is simply a fact that at the end of the day you must be able to face both the gas consumer and the fuel oil consumer. If the price for gas has increased more than the price for fuel oil, then you should be able to explain to those people why you give the fuel oil user twice as much as to the gas user. Yes, they live mainly in Flanders and with you in Brussels. The question is why. We know why that is. We know that this was a demand from the PS. We know that at the end of the journey this is no more or no less than a carpet market where it is decided who gets what. You want an agreement, so you're gonna have to admit it. That's just what happened. You did not answer my question about the reasoning followed. All you have said is that the Community does not say much to you, that may be good, but that does not mean that the gas user is taking a step further. The gas price freeze has been announced with a lot of poeha, but I have the impression that it will not have that much effect. You're only aiming for extreme speculation. Of course, this keeps costs and their consequences under control, but the question is whether this is a solution, because even at EUR 150 per megawatt hour our gas consumers have a huge problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u16	Madam Minister, we are now on the third package of measures. The government has sufficiently proven that it can respond to the energy crisis in different steps. The VAT reduction is an important step for us. That may not surprise you, because Vooruit has always been in favour of it. That's an important decision. The PVDA criticized the first time that there was no VAT reduction on natural gas, now it blames the government that that reduction is only temporary. The Prime Minister said yesterday that the situation will be evaluated in September, so I wonder what the criticism will be. Probably that criticism will dry up at some point. I am certainly very pleased that we did not participate in the strategic games where the PVDA had put on the table a proposal for a VAT reduction of up to 6%. Today it is called a small measure. I find that strange, but these games are of course mainly for Facebook. I now also know why you have agreed to the law on dormant energy contracts, Mr Wollants. That's because there are more sleeping energy contracts in Flanders than in Wallonia. I think that's why. No, in all honesty, we have to stop playing Community games about this. As you say, Minister, they are measures for all Belgians. There are 600,000 Flemish families heating their homes with fuel oil. So let us stop doing so and look at the measures in a different way. Finally, I found the debate on yesterday's European energy market model very interesting. You say that this energy market is acting irrationally today, Madam Secretary. I note, however, that there are certain effects in this model, and I have already listed them yesterday, which should encourage us to have some scepticism and on which we should have a debate. The low prices that were always promised at first did not come true, there is little stability in the model today and the energy transition is not really progressing, despite the model. I also wonder whether the profits from the energy sector from the model are being sufficiently invested in its own production capacity, as we find that the government has to contribute today through the CRM mechanism. This is certainly an important discussion which we must continue. I think it is right, Madam Minister, that Belgium should assume its responsibilities at European level in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u17	Mr Warmoes, the Flemish Energy Decree provides that, in the event of bankruptcy or the initiation of judicial reorganisation proceedings, the supplier's customers are to be transferred to the emergency supplier. In this case, it's Fluvius. Until recently, the Flemish Energy Decree also stipulated that a customer could stay with the emergency supplier for up to 60 days. This has recently been modified and is now 12 months. I note with you that the tariff is set at a high level, because this should ensure that consumers move quickly to a commercial supplier. The network operator is not a supplier. The emergency supplier scheme is a regional competence. I was not involved in this regional scheme and its implementation. Nor was I involved in setting the emergency supplier tariff by the VREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u18	I've questioned you a few times about this file. You are giving a very brief and very superficial answer. Some of those people have received an invoice of 500 euros for a month, or 145 euros for a week. However, they did switch to a commercial supplier within the 60-day period, so it cannot be explained. I think that detachment rate is really a big problem. The philosophy behind it is that this should encourage people to move to the commercial market, but the result is that people who are already victims of bankruptcy are also being put down further. It is often about people with payment problems, who are then punished at a super high rate. That's socially unjust. It creates more problems than it solves. You have always said that you are concerned with energy poverty, Madam Secretary. I wish it could finally be solved. It seems that liberalisation has not taken account of the fact that companies can go bankrupt in a liberal market. Now it has to be said that nothing is properly arranged for this. Yesterday, SAAMO, the former Society Building, argued in favour of capturing the detachment rate. Otherwise, dramas will happen to unprotected customers. Okay, I'm finding that the game continues and the problem doesn't get solved. I really want it solved. If regional competences are involved, you will have to resolve this with your regional colleagues. As always, it is unnecessarily complicated in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u19	Mr President, allow me to say that I do not have the authority to do so. Obviously, I find it difficult to be questioned about matters for which I am not competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u20	If Mr Warmoes asks you a question about matters for which you are not competent, he will have to pay you a pint.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u21	Madam Minister, I asked you whether you also think it is unfair that these people should be charged an extremely high rate. That question is therefore included in the text of my question, but you do not answer it. Do you really think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u22	Mr President, I would like to refer to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, which state that there are no requests for intentions in the exercise of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u23	Mr Van Lommel is absent. Mrs. Marghem is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u24	We have been discussing an agreement for a long time to reduce our energy dependence and to promote security of supply. In addition, 18 March was pushed forward as a deadline. That date will be closer. Meanwhile, a list of proposals from the International Energy Agency is circulating specifically on this issue with a number of recommendations. Meanwhile, the newspapers report that your party or even yourself has made a list of wishes for the content. For some of them there can certainly be support; for others there are still some questions. What elements are currently on the table for the energy deal? Will the extension of life for some nuclear power plants be approved? What nuclear power plants are involved and for what period? What measures will you take to keep energy affordable? To what extent will you respond to the recommendations of the International Energy Agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u25	The file's on the table now. If the two nuclear power plants remain open, the CRM should be reviewed. There are two gas plants today. Is that still the plan? At least that's what I'm reading today in an analysis in the paper. It seems a little bizarre to me that two gas plants would be built in that case. Could you clarify that a little bit? In short, if nuclear power stations remain open, what should happen to the CRM?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u26	I am glad that we are no longer talking about the backup of the backup, but that we are now seeing things with an open mind in a broader context, even though we are forced to do so by unpleasant facts on the geopolitical stage. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u27	Mr President, I think that the way things are going here in committee is a little special. I believe that there is a topical debate if five questions are combined, but there are two speakers not present. I have received a question and two other reflections on something that has nothing to do with Mr Wollants' question, which dealt with the ten-point plan of the IEA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u28	And on the agreement (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u30	We've already treated that, haven't we? The nuclear exit and the energy? Two questions from the same person then counts as three...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u31	It's your cabinet she's joined together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u32	Mr Wollants, as you rightly point out, the IEA proposes 10 measures. Do not sign new gas supply contracts with Russia and replace Russian supplies with gas from alternative sources are the first two points. Belgium is importing a minimum fraction of its gas from Russia today, two thirds of which are destined for transit. It therefore seems to me to be interesting and necessary suggestions for other Member States. The third recommendation concerns the introduction of minimum gas storage obligations. Gas storage plays d'office an important role as buffer. We are committed to this in the European approach, which is to have maximum gas storage capacity again in the next winter. Our own gas storage is pretty small. We have already discussed this extensively and these commitments are also a topic on the European agenda. They're being discussed in Penta and I see them coming back to the next Energy Council. The fourth recommendation concerns the accelerated roll-out of new wind and solar projects. The government has already made an important effort to expand the production of wind energy at sea, with the triple capacity and I have also pushed the interconnections with countries with high renewable energy. We are continuing these efforts. Of course, this applies only to the aspects of wind and solar energy for which I am responsible; I hope that this will be complemented by efforts from the regions. I have heard that the Flemish Region has increased its wind and solar energy targets. Fifth, the IEA recommends maximising the production of electricity from bioenergy and nuclear energy. This is war on the European continent. This war shows how dependent our country is on imports of primary energy. More than 90% of it is imported. On 18 March, therefore, on Friday, I examine the nuclear release schedule with an open mind and we look in depth at Plan A and Plan B, in the light of recent events. I therefore do not wish to prejudge this debate. In any event, any programming will have no short- or long-term impact on prices. Those who claim it deceive people. Mr Verduyckt, when I presented my report on security of supply to the government, I naturally pointed out the risks and obstacles both in one plan and in the other. In Plan A, which is also on the government table next Friday, is the issue of the licence of the Vilvoorde plant. Quid, within the framework of the CRM, if a selected capacity does not appear to have a licence? The obstacles to plan B were also identified. The war in Ukraine, of course, did not change those obstacles, they do, also in relation to the CRM. Meanwhile, also because of the war, the European Commission has released the Communication Repower EU. In doing so, Member States shall be notified to give up gas energy and to use it on energy transition. On the basis of these aspects and depending on the decision of the nuclear cabinet next Friday, which I cannot anticipate, we will, of course, also have discussions with the European Commission. The IEA proposes, sixthly, to use the windfall profits for vulnerable electricity consumers. We did not wait for that recommendation, because we already have a lot of policies for vulnerable consumers, especially the social tariff. Having said that, I have said several times in the Committee on Energy that the CREG is further objectivating windfall profits in Belgium and that we are looking at what we can do in parallel with the forthcoming European initiative in this area. For the proposed measures in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9, it is not the federal government but the regions that are competent. Tenth, the IEA recommends intensifying efforts to diversify and decarbonise the sources of flexibility of the electricity system. Additional flexibility is, of course, essential in the energy transition. We already have important tools in our hands to boost this flexibility. The CRM can also be a tool for this, as it is designed in such a way that demand side management and storage are given every opportunity. The previous auction shows that it works and we are looking at how we can further promote it. I am confident that this evolution has been set in motion. I am more reluctant to accept the advice of the IEA on price control. That certainly depends on the further roll-out of smart meters. We must thoroughly evaluate this before going along with it, so that it does not lead to price increases. The people and businesses have already given up enough. Mr Wollants, I will come to your questions about the core trip. Before you say that I did not reply, I will repeat what I said. I do not anticipate the decision taken next Friday by the Council of Ministers and, of course, I will come to explain every decision of the government in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u33	We are in joyous expectation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u34	Madam Minister, of course I did not expect you to explain the lines of order and what is on the table. If the table is not yet fully filled, I would suggest that you add a little bit to your demand package and, for example, agree on the increased investment deduction for environmental investments. Today there is a deduction of 25%. In the Netherlands, this is 45% for small enterprises. There are still profits to be made to speed things up. The regions can't do that, but they can help you and help them in that way. In the meantime, Mrs Demir has already responded with an increase of 50% in the aid budget for renovation with a view to better insulation and or use of renewable energy. Other regions could do the same. If you can help the regions by making the increased investment deduction with your colleague - you are not entitled to argue for this, we may be able to move forward faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u35	Madam Secretary, you said that increasing supply does not affect the price. That kind of confuses me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u36	Madam Secretary, I look forward to the government's decision on this difficult dossier. Moreover, the debate has been polluted with a great deal of simplism. Mr Ravyts referred to nuclear energy at low energy prices earlier, when we actually know that the impact may be small. You are quite right that the obstacles have not been removed. I'm worried about that, too. We will see what the outcome will be next Friday. You did not really answer the question whether the possible extension of the life of nuclear power stations would have an impact on the outcome of the first auction. Apparently, the gas plant in Vilvoorde isn't coming. However, we have foreseen that we can move forward. That will happen anyway, regardless of Friday's decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u37	The core operator has always indicated that nuclear capacity is impossible in 2025-2026. That means there's a winter anyway without nuclear capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u38	Mr. Wollants, what is this relationship?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u39	Mr President, Engie is involved in Nord Stream 2 with a credit risk of EUR 987 million. My question is whether this changes the situation and the impact on the repayment of the Synatom loans. In doing so, the reference to my written question has become completely superfluous, Mr President. I look forward to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u40	Mr Wollants, I would like to thank you specifically for this question, which allows me to say something about the new regulatory framework for commissions. The Engie Group has disclosed the exposure to credit risk related to Nord Stream 2, which is at risk of not obtaining the operating licence. Since April 2017, it has been contributing to the financing of this project, together with four other European investors. As a lender, Engie is exposed to a credit risk of up to EUR 987 million, which could occur if the books were to be deposited. However, developments in the Nord Stream 2 project are not such as to jeopardise the credit quality of the counterparties of the nuclear facilities and the repayment plan of the loans to Synatom. By the end of 2021, Synatom's outstanding loans to Electrabel amounted to EUR 8.337 billion. The draft law on nuclear facilities, which will be submitted to the Council of Ministers at second reading on Friday, foresees that these loans will be further phased out to EUR 1,820 billion by the end of 2025 and will be fully repaid by the end of 2030, both in respect of nuclear fuels and in respect of decommissioning. In addition, the draft law provides for sufficient collateral for outstanding loans. The Nuclear Provisions Commission is also given extensive powers and resources to exercise its prudential supervision. The whole situation with Nord Stream 2 is very specific, but there may also be other situations that may have an impact on Engie's repayment capacity to Electrabel and Synatom on the outstanding loans. We reduce the risks to Belgian society by ensuring a full refund in a reimbursement schedule and by sufficiently strict prudential supervision. As regards the skimming of nuclear profits, the CREG did not establish any excess profits on Belgian nuclear production at this stage, after applying the repartition contribution. I have also given them the additional mandate to evaluate the excess profits from nuclear production and the sharing of profits with the State. In any event, the sharing of nuclear profits with the State is in no way affected by the problems associated with Nord Stream 2 because its calculation is based on a legal and conventional framework based solely on the nuclear park.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u41	Thanks. We're always learning. Perhaps you could remind us of the division? I think 50 percent of Nord Stream is in Russian hands and 50 percent is with European players.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u42	I do not know the exact subdivision in detail, Mr President. Thank you for your update, Madam Secretary. However, I have already mentioned in a previous question that there may be some reason to advance the 2030 dates in the context of the current market situation. I think there might be opportunities there. That will be part of the whole package. I am certainly looking forward to further processing the whole dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u43	Madam Minister, this question is specifically about the need for suppliers or traders to provide sufficient guarantees to enable them to participate in wholesale markets. In practice, this would mean that they would have to provide up to EUR 1,000 collateral per customer to whom they wish to supply. I also hear from the market more and more signals that this is not so obvious for some suppliers, even for the big ones. They might get into trouble. If the market continues to deteriorate, it is not a good thing and there may even be a domino effect. Is this problem real according to your assessment? Is he familiar with you? What are the possible consequences for end-users and for the functioning of the market itself? What solutions are possible, of course, always within the federal powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u44	Our regulator, the CREG, responsible for the supervision of the wholesale market, reports to me that I am aware of the impact that the guarantees requested from market participants can have. Market operators, i.e. EPEX SPOT or Northpool, regulate their relations with market participants through their market rules. It contains the access fees and obligations for the participants and thus the safeguards that should be made available. Those regulations are submitted to me for approval and I receive advice from the CREG. The problem of the greatly increased safeguards, namely the so-called collaterals of margin calls, was also recently reported to me by a member of the EFET. This is the result of high prices, especially in comparison with the generally much lower prices at which in the past could be hedgeed and current unseen volatility. The clearing houses such as EPEX SPOT and Northpool take no financial risks. They only facilitate trade, but also in OTC trade, parties ask each other for these guarantees. The high financing costs, linked to rising guarantee obligations, have several negative effects. They eat up the liquidity of the market players themselves, because it's blocked money. As a result, this consumes liquidity in the wholesale market, as market players will have to limit the volumes offered according to the guarantees they can hold. Ultimately, this leads to high financing costs. If this persists for a long time, it risks not being good for end-users. Either these higher financing costs will be directly passed on, or a number of traders and suppliers will throw in the towel and there will be consolidation, both in the wholesale market and in the retail market. This problem is at European level, but that does not mean that I will not address it, quite the contrary. The root causes of the problem are the high gas price and price volatility, which also translates into the electricity price. We have just discussed it, proposals have been made in recent weeks to intervene in the wholesale market and to calm it down. This idea was picked up by the Commission and its President, Ursula von der Leyen. I can confirm what I said earlier, that discussions on solutions will be pressure at European level. I will also ask the CREG whether a proposal from the EFET with emergency liquidity funds could help with the European Central Bank or the European Investment Bank and whether it is necessary to require the Belgian market managers EPEX SPOT and Northpool to adapt their market regulations. That question's gonna leave in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It was just my intention to make sure it was on radar. I am glad that action is now being taken. Sufficient supply on the market, with suppliers making a sharp offer to their customers, is still one of the best ways to ensure in the longer term that we don't pay too much for electricity and gas. I look forward to further evolution in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u46	Madam Minister, a few years ago the port of Zeebrugge was chosen for the transfer of Russian gas from Siberia. The aim is to make it possible for gas in Zeebrugge to be transferred to regular LNG vessels. In summer the northern route is free and one can sail to Asia in a different way. My question is whether the war in Ukraine and the sanctions imposed on Russia affect the transhipment in Zeebrugge. If it turns out to be effective that the supply via pipelines to Europe is lower, which has always been indicated to date, then the question is, of course, whether this also applies to the transhipment via Zeebrugge. Especially if Europe is not the destination of that gas, this could also be reviewed. Can you give an update on the use of Zeebrugge as a transfer site for Russian gas? Are the volumes lower here, just as we see in the field of pipelines? Is the transhipment also being considered in the context of sanctions against Russia, especially if Zeebrugge is used as a commercial point to supply other regions? Is it conceivable that the additional storage tank in Zeebrugge is being used for the storage of LNG in order to achieve greater resilience in terms of our gas resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u47	Mr Wollants, I would first like to draw attention to the fact that the supply via pipelines from Russia to Europe has so far been in line with the capacity nominated by shippers in line with the long-term contracts with European customers. This also applies to the 20-year contract with Yamal Trade, whereby up to 8 million tonnes of LNG can be skipped annually at the terminal in Zeebrugge. This corresponds to a potential of 214 LNG tankers per year. As long as there are no specific sanctions that suspend or cancel that contract, it must be respected by all parties concerned. It is important to bear in mind that the Belgian gas network is used as a hub and a turntable of the Western European gas network. The network is optimally connected to all sources in the world. The terminal in Zeebrugge is historically fully developed and developed for this purpose. Zeebrugge thus benefited from the development of the LNG overlay for the long-term contract with Yamal Trading. In Zeebrugge there is not only the LNG terminal, but also the pipeline from the Norwegian fields, and the pipeline from the United Kingdom, which has several LNG terminals and is also connected to the fields in the North Sea. There is also a pipeline from France that can supply gas from the LNG terminal in Dunkirk. Zeebrugge easily resists more than the average Belgian daily decrease. At the LNG terminal in Zeebrugge, everything is being done to maximise resilience for gas supply. The terminal is fully booked by customers who have concluded long-term contracts. With the customers of the terminal supplying LNG, the detachment planning of the ships they will dock is continuously followed. On this basis, it looks at where there is room to provide additional loosening windows to receive additional ships. If customers do not use an existing loose window, it will be made available to the market again. Whether ships actually arrive depends on the LNG market itself, which is a global market. The operation of the facilities in Zeebrugge is fully in line with the sanctions imposed at European level, and every development is closely monitored in order to be able to implement additional measures quickly. Today, European sanctions are not in place for shipments of Russian ships. Therefore, the transhipment from ship to ship of Russian gas at the LNG terminal in Zeebrugge remains part of the long-term contract concluded for this purpose. For the record, Fluxys works as the plant manager, and this according to the model of complete unbundling. The company is in no way involved in the production or trade of gas. It's Fluxys customers who own the gas at any time. So it doesn't have to be a Russian LNG that is stored in Zeebrugge. Zeebrugge is therefore a very important asset in our resilience and that of Western Europe. Mr President, a former European Commissioner, President and Minister of your party had the following written in the newspaper: that is at least one thing that we have done well in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u48	Madam Secretary, it is clear that you still had some business to attend to. But, let us be honest, it was worth mentioning the role of Zeebrugge and seeing how Zeebrugge relates to the world market. In the future, Zeebrugge could play an even more important role, depending on what happens. We do know that the summer is coming soon and that the situation will change for Yamal anyway. In any case, I would like to thank you for pointing this out. I would like to point out that the long-term contracts are indeed being complied with, but that we have seen total volumes decrease because I believe that there has been a reduction in short-term contracts. No contracts have been broken, if that's what you wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u49	Madam Minister, in our previous questioning session, you called on Parliament to get SELOR to initiate the procedure for the reappointment of the CREG Management Committee. I had the impression that there was a great deal of support for this within this committee. My question is whether enough progress has been made for you in the meantime to go further, or do you still want additional action from Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u50	You know, Mr Wollants, that I said last time that, like you, I want the vacancies to be published. I also confirmed to the President, as far as was necessary, how important this is to me. I repeat when I say that at least the CREG Management Committee has full powers. That does not alter the fact that we are working on the publication of vacancies. I did indeed refer to the role of Parliament last time. Of course, I do not know whether any initiative has been taken. For my part, there have been several meetings with SELOR over the past few weeks. The job descriptions are currently being translated. I hope, together with you, that SELOR will soon be able to publish the vacancies. So, yes, there's movement in the file. We'll keep following it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u51	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Of course, I do not know, Mr President, whether a signal could have been sent from our committee. But if it is necessary to repeat that signal, it is indeed possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u52	We are confident that Minister De Sutter will give the necessary reminders to make progress with SELOR.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u53	Mr President, I have a number of questions on various issues. I'll start with my question about the energy island. We know that there has been talk in the past of a grant of EUR 100 million. The estimate of the cost of the energy island seems to be a little higher now. I have been told that this is between EUR 2 and EUR 2.5 billion and that this investment will lead to an increase in Elijah's tariffs. At the same time, there are sources that say that this is the most efficient solution. However, I see in the CREG report that there are a number of doubts about it. Moreover, in that report, the CREG states that it does not have sufficient information to assess all the elements, but that is another discussion. Is it true that the size of the cost of the energy island is 2 to 2.5 billion and that this will be settled through Elijah's tariffs? Will the energy standard play a role in this? In the meantime, are there any additional quantifications for the CREG to examine whether a more targeted opinion in this context is possible? Are there any additional risks that are reclaimed from energy consumers and are they avoided? In terms of interconnection, it's a bit of the same story. There has already been a great deal of talk in this committee about the Danish cable, since Triton was baptized. There is also an additional link with the United Kingdom and Norway. How do these different files relate to each other? They need to be weighed against each other, especially in terms of the order and the way in which they are financed. Are these cables which can be financed directly through the auction of capacity, or is it the intention to charge part of them in Elijah's tariffs? Can you give an update on these projects, with an assessment of the added value, the investment cost and the possible pressure on prices? My last question is about Ventilus. A proposal to speed up renewable energy projects in the North Sea is now circulating in the press. Can they be accelerated much, given the realization of Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut? Are there any possibilities there? The timing was already quite tight in itself and there are also problems with the support. What is the status of these two projects? Is an acceleration of this realistic and possible? What steps do you specifically want to take in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u54	My question is limited to the Ventilus project, in particular the scope of the ENOVER working group on cross-regional projects. Together with your party, you have highlighted a faster shift to renewable energy in recent days. However, there is still an actual blocking of the Ventilus project, which is essential for the connection of the Princess Elisabeth zone planned by this government. According to the press, you even want a third zone. For the route no regional RUP has yet been approved. The major discussion remains the final technology choice. According to the network operators, it could only be underground, based on a longer period of time. The principle of electricity security is also abandoned and a higher price is proposed. According to Elijah, if these three negative aspects were to be assisted, it could be done underground. Is there therefore an impact on transmission network tariffs possible? Indeed, Elia's investment costs are also included in those network charges. On 8 March, Mrs Demir replied to a question from a Flemish colleague of mine that the report of the intentant appointed by the Flemish government was there, but that the working group on cross-regional projects within ENOVER has not met since 9 December 2021. Can you confirm that? Can you confirm that no further progress has been made in the consultations on the route with the licensed Flemish government? To what extent does the ongoing blocking of this project have an impact on the timetable for the operationalisation of offshore developments in the Princess Elisabeth Zone? After all, we have heard for several years, namely 2026, 2027 and sometimes 2029.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u55	Madam Secretary, due to the conflict, everyone wants to strive for energy independence. It would have been better to have been a little more forward-looking before. Unseen acceleration means that all taboos need to be pushed aside for a moment. There are plans today, but if we have to invest massively in wind and sunshine, we may even have to think further than the current plans. What else do you see there? Are there any other options besides the ones we already have? How do you look at the fact that the pace in the regions is far too low today? Perhaps the situation is so precarious that we need to bring these things into one hand, because the pursuit of energy independence is simply too important. A Flemish minister blows hot and cold over the Ventilus project, while strategically speaking this is just extremely important for Belgium. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u56	Madam Minister, the road to renewable energy is essential. How can we avoid making the classic mistake of overestimating the speed of implementation and underestimating the costs? Is it not perhaps appropriate to suggest in a very simple and graphic way, even after this committee meeting, how the budget management and the timeline for these critical projects are going, in order to be able to make a realistic assessment when we can make use of all this renewable energy? You want to focus more on this and speed up a number of things, but it is the weakest link or the last link to be implemented that will effectively determine when we will be able to use this renewable energy. Secondly, we have made a plea here in committee for better cooperation between Elijah and the CREG. It may be appropriate to consider in a subsequent discussion how you determine the role of these organisations and what the supervision of the CREG is in such matters, in which Elijah is not only a provider of studies but also of infrastructure and operational responsibility. Do people just work with cost-plus pricing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u57	The second aspect of your question is addressed in the answers to colleagues' questions on the tariff structure. The powers and roles of all are sufficiently clear. Secondly, you are talking about overestimating implementation and underestimating costs. To be honest, that surprises me. The overestimate of the execution does not lie with the person who eventually builds the installation. This is always happening very quickly, even at the time of the covid crisis, when the last wind farms had to be completed at sea at times when it was not obvious whether it could happen or whether there were people available. We can also use the example of interconnection, but this is about the licensing path. Underestimating costs is mainly due to the role of the CREG. If there is one thing everyone is facing when it comes to renewable energy, it is underestimating technological progress. This is specifically about interconnection, but look at, for example, the jack-up vessels made by the dredging companies. They can't write off their ships because technology is evolving so quickly. The technology is getting bigger, much bigger than expected and the ships are not built for it. So they can't even be written off anymore. We do not necessarily underestimate the costs, but we do underestimate technological progress. Let us begin with Mr Wollants' question on the energy island. As regards your questions about the cost of the network infrastructure for the transport of energy produced by the wind farms that will be developed in the Princess Elisabeth zone, I can confirm that the estimate of the budget prepared by the network manager is within the order of magnitude indicated by you, namely EUR 2 to 2,5 billion for an artificial island, the transformation facilities and the cables between that island and the onshore network. This concept of a hybrid island, together with the increase in capacity, thus increases renewable electricity and reduces dependence on fossil fuels. The risks associated with the implementation of this ambitious project have been identified as well as the measures to reduce them. This is also a professional way of working on large investment projects. These risks are of the same size for the energy island option as for the platform option. Of course, there are risks in both scenarios. With regard to cost recovery, it is correct to say that the investment costs in the transmission network are covered by transmission tariffs. This is so in all scenarios and is also discussed with the CREG in a separate trajectory around the tarification. For the energy island there is also EUR 100 million provided for in the relay plan, to have a positive impact compared to the scenario platforms. To monitor the impact of the different cost components on the energy bill, there is also the energy standard. Every year, by 15 May at the latest, there is the publication of the study on the energy bills of both families and companies. The energy standard is there to protect the competitiveness and purchasing power of Belgian companies and families. I shall now answer Mr Verduyckt's questions. The coalition agreement states that we are investigating whether additional capacity of wind at sea can be realised in the Belgian North Sea as well as outside territorial waters, in cooperation with other countries located on the North Sea. In this context, the federal government has increased the capacity of the Princess Elisabeth Zone to 3,15 to 3,5 gigawatts. The current marine spatial plan runs until 2026 and falls under the responsibility of my colleague Van Quickenborne, Minister of the North Sea. Indeed, in the context of the review, consideration could be given to looking at additional capacity. Higher ambitions for wind at sea in the light of the war in Ukraine and the call for more energy dependent are currently the subject of discussion within governments. Now I come to the question of interconnection. There is no concrete interconnection project with Norway yet. The talks will start in the coming weeks, following the MOU signed by the Prime Minister of Belgium and his Norwegian counterpart. The other two interconnections are the Triton Link with Denmark and Nautilus with the United Kingdom. Both connectors are in the study and implementation phase, including funding and permits. For both projects a final investment decision is expected by 2025, after which the projects can be built. Both projects are scheduled to be launched by 2030. Both projects will be included in the Federal Development Plan, which will be submitted for approval by the end of May 2023. The projects offer added value for strengthening our country's security of supply and a CO2 saving by landing more wind from the North Sea. An initial analysis of these projects has been carried out, but these business plans are now being worked out in detail by Elia, together with their counterpart for both projects. In both projects, the CREG is involved in the administrative and technical working groups to examine the impact on tariffs. Indeed, both projects are intended to be implemented with minimal impact on tariffs and the budget. Now I come to the questions about Ventilus. The working group on cross-border projects was set up within the framework of ENOVER, whereby the federal government discusses these energy files with the regional authorities and the relevant administrations that relate to projects that run through several regions, i.e. at present Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut. The Flemish Minister of Spatial Planning decided to initiate the process of approving the GRUP for Ventilus on hold and to appoint an intentant with the task of creating a support base for that project. In the meantime, I understand that the intentant has delivered the final report. In line with the commitments made at the GOP of December 2021, a new consultation will now be scheduled. As the Federal Minister responsible for Energy, I am of course a requesting party to implement the Ventilus project as soon as possible, but with full respect for the autonomy and powers of the Flemish Region. All formal steps under the regional GRUP are taken by the Flemish level. If the formal process for the GRUP in Flanders and the Plan du Territoire in Wallonia is started in the near future, there will be no additional delay in the start-up of the new energy projects at sea. If the timing of these projects at sea can be accelerated, there is a timing problem. We will continue to follow this up in our ongoing consultation with the regional government. That sentence doesn't add up. Both regions are working on what they need to do at their policy level to get those projects approved. I asked for a better and more structural consultation through the GOP, because ultimately we need to talk about this. Those projects are in the federal development plan. That federal plan is being consulted. Perhaps it was all too easy to assume, because it is in that plan and is consulted, that it is accepted, but of course these projects must be carried out afterwards, including with their own consultations. It is absolutely my wish and we are thinking about doing it in a better way, so that it comes together more from the beginning. We would like to use the relevant working groups for this purpose. That is why I have asked my colleagues to send staff from their cabinets to these working groups so that there is more political leverage and not just administrative work. This has also been followed up by the regional colleagues. The timing in the Regions has a direct impact on the timing for Ventilus. We are looking for a way to make that happen smoothly. The war in Ukraine proves its importance and desirability. According to the current timing, we're coming out in 2028. Every year that we can win, no further delay, but a possible acceleration, of course, is included. But again, these are complex dossiers on both sides, both in Wallonia and Flanders. It is therefore necessary for each of the Regions to have the opportunity to exercise their own powers properly. We must not stand in front of each other with drawn knives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u58	Madam Secretary, I can only confirm that. Allow me to clarify that with my question I do not intend to find out who is doing what wrong. I do wish to get a good view of any bottlenecks and hurdles and what they mean for the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u59	Mrs. Gilson was the last to come in. As a gentleman, I would like to give her the opportunity to replicate first, possibly with a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u60	Madam Minister, I arrived when you were beginning to speak, so I listened carefully to your answers. Thank you. Nevertheless, I remain concerned about the fact that, through the opinion of CREG, the scenario of the energy island is the most profitable. We know that this is a project that we have supported under the government agreement and even before. In order to avoid criticism and to ensure that we make the right choice, I believe it is appropriate that we have quantitative data in relation to this route of the energy island in comparison to the platforms. This would allow us to examine its additional advantages and to see if, in the circumstances, it is necessary to correct the shot, or to move towards other tracks, such as the one I have heard from some experts from floating wind turbines. I have not heard in your reply any more details in relation to the financial and legal structure that the whole mechanism would take, on the one hand to build the energy island and then to operate it. For example, we are considering using the mechanism of regulated real estate companies, one aspect of which is infrastructure work and which, in my view, could be usefully used for this type of investment. This is a matter that we will continue to follow closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u61	In the analysis of the most appropriate network design, Elia compared different variants from different angles: technical, environmental, licensing and also costs. Although the differences are not very large, in this case the variant where the means of processing are concentrated on an artificial island and where the energy produced by the parks is transported to the continent has proved to be the most efficient both economically and technically. The artificial island variant also offers two advantages over the other options envisaged, including platform options. This is on the one hand the only option to pave the way for a EUR 100 million European grant, which makes it more interesting than the other options. On the other hand, it opens up the possibility of developing a hybrid interconnection to another country, which offers interesting synergies in cables and transformations. This latter advantage is also a crucial element in the decision to increase the capacity of the Princess Elisabeth area without changing the plans to strengthen the networks on earth, which is important in view of the discussion session and the questions and answers that we had regarding Ventilus and the Hainaut Buckets. As regards the legal structure, Elia is responsible for construction and operation and has provided for a legal structure in accordance with the regulatory framework as a Belgian TSO and as provided for in the law. This is Elia acting as a Belgian GRT. So everything is regulated by the electricity law. As for the floating wind, the North Sea in front of the Belgian coast is not deep enough. It is therefore not an option in the Belgian North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u62	Madam Minister, we are a little concerned about these costs and the possible increase in them. We need to keep a close eye on that. I felt that the opinion of the CREG contained a number of questions which deserve further follow-up, to ensure that this does not end up with the final customer. But on the other hand, if it doesn't get there, the potential for the budget comes through the energy standard. I would also like to ask for the necessary vigilance, so that it does not come at us in this way. I note that we can expect the planned interconnections to be used by 2030 at the earliest. That will not help us in the short term, but if we never start, we will never finalize it. Finally, as far as Ventilus is concerned, I understand that it is not certain that accelerating the expansion of offshore capacity in the North Sea will be possible. I have a number of questions to ask, given the many preliminary studies that still have to be carried out in order to do so, but even more about the projects that should make it possible for the flow to come ashore. I think we should come back to that at another meeting. On Friday it may not be desirable to have that in the list. The question is whether Ventilus should be stepped up in response to your ambition, at least according to the newspapers, to move towards 8 gigawatts. That could also be an element.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u63	Madam Secretary, Mr Wollants' last sentences can count as well. He's gonna take a shot at me with that. Apparently, he is Mrs Demir's mouthpiece and says that we will not be blackmailed. That is what we can read through between the lines in a kind of carpet market deal - and now I am very naughty - about nuclear energy, where some parties put a lot of questions on the table, including speeding up certain processes. I hope that it will remain somewhat cordial at the negotiating table. What I would like to hear from you is that the energy island, with operationality by 2030, and the Nautilus interconnection, which I will have another question about later, have nothing to do with the construction of the Princess Elisabeth zone ashore, i.e. the actual Ventilus project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u64	Madam Minister, with regard to the offshore story and the pursuit of energy independence, I also hear a lot of objections, while many of my fellow party members, Mr Wollants, in other committees, say that energy independence is particularly important. It's one or the other. Madam Secretary, I have not been able to provoke you to comment on how we can speed up the onshore story. I am concerned about that, because I see a minister appealing against the sub-governments in the field of windmills and I see a Flemish minister honking and tweeting a lot today about the fact that there are a lot of wind turbines, but if you look at that in absolute figures, it is quite limited. We will therefore have to see how that goes, but energy independence cannot only be confessed by words; there must also be action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u65	Madam Minister, I have received my answers, thank you for that. We hope that this issue will continue favourably.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u66	Madam Minister, last week the media reported that according to a new UN report, gas-fired power plants could be more harmful worldwide than coal-fired power plants due to methane leaks. Russia appears to be a notorious hotspot of natural gas leaks. In 2021, the Clean Air Task Force Action Group filmed five large Fluxy installations where leaks were detected everywhere except at the Zeebrugge LNG terminal. I have also tabled a written question on this subject for two months, but I have not yet received an answer. How big is the leak loss on our gas delivery and gas distribution system in total in Belgium in 2020 and 2021? Can this be broken down by type of infrastructure? What initiatives did the gas network operator take in 2021 with regard to gas detection near high-pressure lines and other infrastructure? What is the state of implementation of the reduction programme on methane losses? What initiatives have been taken? Has the study already been carried out on the second installation at the LNG terminal? If so, what are the results of the study? What action is being taken on this? In what sense has the CREG been monitoring more closely for natural gas leaks at Fluxys since 2019? Fluxys should reduce 10% of its methane emissions annually in the period 2020-2023 compared to the 2017 reference year. Does the CREG Fluxys think they're capable of achieving that goal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u67	Mr Ravyts, on 7 December I replied to an almost identical question from Mr Wollants. I would like to repeat briefly the broad lines of this. Fluxys is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions including methane. This is part of the Go Net Zero project which aims to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2025 compared to 2017. Between 2017 and 2020, methane emissions were reduced to 142 and 103 kilotons of CO2 equivalent. That's a 27 percent reduction. This was mainly made possible by the three measures mentioned: working on diplomatic emissions, leak detection and repair and reducing emissions from interventions. Other solutions will also be studied and applied if the analysis is positive. Fluxys participates in the European Gas Research Group, through the Synergrid Sector Federation. The group is active in research and the improvement of the natural gas supply chain and is therefore also interested in solutions to reduce methane emissions. Then I come to your questions about the second installation at the LNG terminal. In 2020, Fluxys Belgium studied the construction of three additional regassers with seawater at the LNG terminal in Zeebrugge. The investment decision was taken at the beginning of 2021. According to current planning, the installations will be in operation in 2024 and 2026. Based on the expected use of the terminal, additional installations will significantly reduce energy consumption and thus also substantially reduce CO2 emissions. Then I come to the role of the CREG. In the context of the establishment of the tariff methodology, the CREG has provided in its draft Decision an incentive to encourage the system operator to reduce the methane emissions of its operations by 10 % per year compared to reference year 2017 during the period 2020-2023. Before adopting the draft Decision, the CREG organised a public consultation on this subject, from 19 April to 17 May 2018. On 7 June 2018, he was worried about the Chamber of Representatives. The measurement of the realisation of the incentive is based on the official figures, which the Flemish Environmental Company sends to the European Commission for monitoring Belgium's methane emissions results. On the basis of the latest published figure, the network operator achieved its target in 2020. The CREG expects that this also happened in 2021. Fluxys follows the evolution of methane emissions and takes the necessary reduction measures in the framework of the aforementioned project Go For Net Zero, with the aim of achieving the stated objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u68	Madam Minister, thank you for updating the state of the art on methane emissions. If I am right, Mr Wollants asked his question in December 2020 and not a few months ago. I would not have dared to ask you again three months later on more or less the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u69	Madam Minister, you have stressed several times this afternoon that gas supplies will continue, but we must also take preventive measures. Apparently, emergency plans are refined as a result of the war in Ukraine. There is also a European solidarity mechanism, which allows European countries to supply natural gas to each other. It will therefore, hopefully, never be about switching off in the strict sense of the word, but about responding to demand by allowing a number of large consumers to consume less. The families are protected customers in this case and would therefore not be directly endorsed. However, Engie's CEO warned that without Russian gas, it would be difficult to replenish gas reserves this summer. Fortunately, we have not yet reached this stage, but we must remain vigilant, because the available storage capacity is still about 10% less filled than other years. You referred to this in plenary and said that this is the case almost every year during this period. In any case, last month, the European Commission announced legislation to oblige Member States to supplement their gas reserves by the end of September each year. This aspect is also part of REPowerEU. It is about the obligation to replenish up to 80% of capacity; in short, about strategic storage of gas stocks, which is not now mandatory. In what sense is the exit plan or emergency plan updated? Can you explain more about the phased procedures in the European solidarity mechanism? What is Belgium's response to the European Commission's communication on the obligation to strategically store gas resources and their various elements? That communication actually preceded the plan of 8 March, REPowerEU.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u70	Mr President, we must indeed take into account a scenario in which Russia or Europe itself shuts down the gas tap. According to calculations by the think tank Bruegel, if this were to happen, Europe would have a shortage of at least 400 terawatts of gas to get through the next winter. In this case, targeted cut-offs and activation of emergency plans should be introduced in Europe. For Belgium, the risk of shortages is perhaps a little less because we are a transit country and import a lot more natural gas than we ourselves consume. Whether we can take away from this ourselves is only the question. I have reservations about that. Do we have an emergency plan if Russia or Europe shuts down the gas tap? What measures will be put into effect? Do you have any analyses on the risk of shortages in our country? Which sectors should necessarily reduce their use? Are these the large consumers and/or household customers, SMEs and the like? Do you think that the current emergency plans are adequate or that additional action is needed to prepare us for such actions? What actions are you taking at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u71	Mr President, the emergency plan was completely revised in June 2020 and notified to the European Commission. Several working groups are currently in the process of involving the various stakeholders, depending on the working group concerned, in order to increase their preparedness and to improve crisis procedures in the necessary areas. The stakeholders are Fluxys, the National Crisis Centre and Synergrid. A task force has been set up to monitor the situation on a permanent basis and this is done in close consultation with Fluxys. Today there is no risk of shortages. There is currently no interruption of Russian gas flows to the European Union. Most of the natural gas consumed in Belgium comes from Norway and the Netherlands. This was based on the measurements of the physical inflow of natural gas into the Belgian territory. The rest comes from the United Kingdom and several other countries around the world, including Qatar. The suppliers operating in the Belgian energy market can import natural gas from all directions via different channels, by ship and by pipeline. The natural gas emergency plan provides for three levels of crisis involving separate measures. These are the 'early warning', the 'warning' and the 'emergency situation'. These levels can be declared either after a technical incident with an impact on the Belgian transport network or in the event of a shortage of Belgian natural gas supplies. The following situations give rise to the announcement of one of the three phases of crisis. The first level of crisis is the 'early warning', which is a potential risk of scarcity of natural gas, which can be solved by market measures. The second level of crisis is the 'warning', which is an increased potential risk of a shortage of natural gas. The third level of crisis is the 'emergency situation', which is an interruption or significant deterioration in the supply of natural gas. Market-based measures are taken to resolve the crisis at the early warning and warning levels. These are comprehensive monitoring and market measures, mainly carried out by Fluxys with regard to active players on the Belgian network, network balancing and network operators in neighbouring countries. For the emergency phase, non-market-based measures are being taken to resolve the crisis. So there are still a lot of steps to be taken before we can take effective measures, such as the mandatory reduction in consumption of certain customers. According to the Royal Decree of 2013 on the Belgian Emergency Plan, all customers on the distribution networks are protected customers. Therefore, it is currently foreseen that only industrial customers on the transmission network will have to reduce their consumption, on Fluxys' indication and insofar as this can be safely achieved. If this is necessary, it is up to me to authorize Fluxys to do so. Before eliminating the customers protected by solidarity, there is the possibility of recourse to the European solidarity mechanism. This mechanism allows Belgium to request support from its neighbouring countries for the supply of natural gas, provided that they still have sufficient volumes to supply their customers not protected by solidarity. Neighbouring countries are obliged to draw up a tender which Belgium may or may not accept. This principle, of course, also applies in the opposite direction. If one of our neighbours is no longer able to supply customers protected by solidarity, it can use the solidarity mechanism. Belgium will then be obliged to make an offer based on the gas that is still consumed by our non-solidarity-protected customers, taking into account the transport capacities and the volume needed to supply our essential power plants. It is the first time that there could be a risk of supply problems. In preparing all the measures and procedures, of course, a number of shortcomings and practical problems emerge. There's room for improvement. It goes without saying that we are applying these improvements to the emergency plan itself. That happens in the working group with the FOD and Fluxys. We are currently examining the impact of the European Commission's obligation to strategically store gas stocks. I can tell you in advance that it will be very important for the European and Belgian security of supply to have sufficient capacity for European storage facilities by next winter. I fully support the European Commission's initiative. My administration is active in the pentalateral consultation on gas storage and, in that consultation with our neighbouring countries, has already called for the following three principles to be respected. Firstly, the minimum levels of storage must be achieved in all European storage facilities just before winter, as a measure of security of supply and as a price damper. Secondly, accessibility for all European market players. Thirdly, a solidarity mechanism to cover costs. There are many challenges to getting the warehouses filled in time with current high prices and the negative winter-summer spread. Remember the discussion we have had here following the modified regulatory framework for the gas storage unit in Loenhout. We look at all commercial, pragmatic and legal slopes to also fill the Belgian storage in Loenhout by next winter with as little financial risk as possible. In any case, these measures and arrangements must be ready before the summer, because it takes about four months to complete the storage in Loenhout.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u72	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, rich in information. This also means that these questions make sense. After all, many people get scared when they are flooded every day with reports of war with a possible impact on our energy supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for the detailed information. That was interesting. I hope it never comes to that. We call for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine and a direct withdrawal from Russia. There must be a de-escalation and a diplomatic solution as soon as possible, so that it does not come to that. I conclude from your reply, reassuringly, that we do not depend on Russian gas. You also say that this should be looked at at at European level, because there is an obligation of solidarity. This means that if Germany gets into trouble, we will have to contribute our share to solve the problems. This in itself is positive, but that also means further work on the plans. I am also reassured by the fact that small consumers are protected. The opposite is the case with the electricity switch-off plan, where the ordinary people are first disconnected and then the large consumers. That is a problem for electricity, but for gas people are protected, which is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u74	Madam Minister, you announced last month a number of measures to tackle malpractice by certain energy suppliers. The sector would have one last chance to eliminate the problems of door-to-door sales, otherwise a total ban would be threatened through a legislative initiative. By the end of February, you had to have a collective code of conduct to eliminate malpractice, you warned. In addition, you announced an information and awareness campaign in collaboration with the FPS Economy to point out to consumers their rights vis-à-vis energy suppliers, rights that were indeed strengthened by the legislation adopted in February in the Chamber. You asked the CREG to set up a working group that would bring together the Energy Ombudsperson and the Economic Inspectorate to identify complaints patterns and react more quickly. How are the three intentions coming along? It's early to ask this question, but what's the timeline each time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u75	I have indeed received a proposal for a collective code of conduct from the sector. That's what we're analysing right now. The FPS Economy has the information and awareness campaign ready and will roll it out on the basis of the FPS communication plan. As usual, the response of the FOD's communication service is somewhat diffuse. I will ask what that means in concrete terms. On the initiative of the Economic Inspectorate, a consultation meeting was held on 23 February with the CREG, the Ombudsman for Energy and the Economic Inspection itself. This working group will now continue and meet regularly under the chairmanship of the CREG. The intention is for the services to exchange information on complaints and complaints patterns and to inform me about them in order to allow me to take the necessary initiatives and structural measures. So the work is going on. A lot of work has been done in a few weeks. We expect more results soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u76	I will, of course, submit follow-up questions in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u77	Madam Secretary, you have signed a far-reaching cooperation agreement with the Norwegian Prime Minister. This further cooperation should benefit the Belgian energy supply. It provides for more exchange of knowledge and technology in the field of energy. Of course, there's that third, crucial connector at sea. You want to see the North Sea coalition in the field of energy realised as quickly as possible, namely one large and sustainable power plant in the North Sea. As has already been mentioned, both countries are apparently planning exchange of knowledge and technology because they are complementary. In concrete terms, it concerns Norwegian knowledge about the collection and storage of CO2 and the emissions of various industrial processes. Could you clarify the various provisions of this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u78	Madam Minister, as chairman of the Scandinavian friendship group, I have recently met the Swedish ambassador, and I have already met the Danish ambassador. Those are always very interesting conversations, especially when it comes to energy. The Danes have already announced that they would like to meet our committee. The Norwegians are also coming to visit. You understand that when I saw this, I was very interested, especially since Norway is a country that is also an important player in the field of fossil energy. Would I have liked to have heard more about this far-reaching energy cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Norway is a stable and predictable long-term partner for Europe, especially for natural gas, at the moment. Norway has also confirmed that supplies of natural gas will continue to be maintained, from now until 2030 and perhaps beyond. Mr Verduyckt, I understand from you that Norway is also a friend, but of course we already knew that. The aim of the MOU that we have concluded is to promote cooperation in the field of wind at sea, hydrogen and CCS and to share technical knowledge, advice, skills and expertise in this field. We also make timely practical agreements on possible cooperation. This concerns in particular cooperation on promoting the necessary regulatory frameworks, the safe and commercial deployment and technological development of wind, hydrogen and CCS both nationally and internationally, including the London Protocol, the OSPAR Convention and relevant EU regulatory frameworks. It also deals with the preparation and preparation of a bilateral agreement to allow cross-border transport for permanent carbon storage and the exchange of knowledge on wind at sea, including by building on existing co-operation in the North Sea Energy Cooperation and analyses on technical, economic and environmental aspects related to wind at sea and transport infrastructure. There is also the import and export of renewable or low carbon hydrogen. Of course, there are other issues on which the parties can jointly decide. On the same day that the Norwegian Prime Minister was here, we also met with Equinor, the Norwegian state-owned company. It was then about several projects, for example H2BE in Ghent. This is very important for the development of hydrogen. I was present at the conversation and I also stressed the importance of the North Sea in the context of hybrid connectors for electricity distribution in Europe. There is now a need for a concrete work plan on the follow-up to the memorandum. The MOU, signed by both Heads of Government, provides a basis for future concrete developments. At technical level, an effective work plan will be drawn up, involving both our network operators, in order to give concrete substance to these aspects. It's one thing to close a MOU, it's another thing to work with that MOU. There is H2BE and also that cooperation between our network operators. There are also the projects that are there today, which are slightly wider than federal competence, which are mainly regional competence, regarding capture and transport of CO2. These are three elements that are really being put into practice. So it's a good base. The MOU was signed a few days before Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It is a good thing that we have MOU for this strategic energy cooperation between our two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u80	Madam Minister, a few days or weeks ago a commentator in the press said that the term energy independence is now being used very lightly in politics. I don't really know what to think about that. Personally, I believe that this is another good step. However, I am the first to admit, and Mr Cogolati is no longer here, that when we make a plea for nuclear developments, uranium goes hand in hand. That needs to be imported. However, Norway and Denmark have surpluses of renewable energy, which is also imports. So let us stop discussing this. We cannot produce 100 % of our energy renewable here. So let us avoid the semantic discussions about dependence, but in both directions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u81	What I derive from the conversation with the Swedish Ambassador and from your reply is that in those countries there is a strong link between the government and companies who want to work together to ensure that the energy transition is not missed. That is something very important for our business. I sometimes receive mixed signals there. So the Scandinavian countries are not only interesting to get inspiration from, but also to carry out concrete projects. Hans Bruyninckx also referred to these countries in this morning's climate dialogue as particularly interesting with regard to their climate policy. In this way you can guarantee that the theme energy will always be at the top of the conversation list in the friendship groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u82	Madam Minister, you also signed an MOU on the same day on strengthening energy cooperation with the United Kingdom. We've known for some time that the Nemo Link will be complemented by a second interconnection cable, Nautilus. In fact, we are talking about the planned energy island and hybrid interconnection, about a direct exchange of electricity and a 1.4 gigawatt of offshore energy and also about new wind farms that can be connected to the island. Belgium and the United Kingdom will also cooperate on the development and use of low carbon hydrogen and carbon capture and storage. The European Commission selected Nautilus as a Project of Common Interest three years ago. I assume that the timing, the location, the route, the capacity and in general the feasibility have already been investigated. Last year the invitation to tender for the geotechnical research was launched by Elia in the context of a route alignment. The very important seabed research contract, divided into four lots, should be awarded. Could you give us a little more detailed explanation of this MOU? What is the status of Nautilus? Is it true that no contracts have yet been awarded for the marine geophysical research for the cable and platform, for the shallow marine geotechnical research and for the two plots for deep sea geotechnical research at 50 to 100 m below the sea floor? What is the time frame that Elijah is giving up for the years to come? I understand that there is still some time left, as the energy island will not become operational until 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u83	Mr Ravyts, I would just like to comment on what you just said about energy independence. In that connection, you spoke of 'in pass and out of step'. It is correct that this is now being put forward very much, because we are faced with this dependence. There's a difference for me. Compare the European map of oil and gas pipelines from Russia to the interior with the construction of a wind network at sea. In both cases it is true that imports continue, but there is a completely different import if one connects the North Sea countries and distributes these surpluses towards the continent. Then one is not dependent on a country. I might want to make the comparison with hydrogen. I know that was not in your question, but in the case of hydrogen, we are also committed to imports. We must also adopt a strategic approach: how do we position ourselves with regard to the various MOUs that we sign on this issue? We are indeed taking this reflection with us in order to measure our policies correctly. With regard to the MOU with the United Kingdom, the negotiations between Belgium and the UK on a second Interconnector were already launched in 2019. They were also introduced and accepted on the fourth PCI list, the interconnection between the Antwerp region and the Kemsley area, now known as Nautilus. It is a hybrid project that not only concerns the construction of a second submarine connector between Belgium and the UK, but will also connect to a number of wind farms in the UK. Since the UK has now left the EU, it will no longer be a PCI, but will have the status of a project or mutual interest. It was then decided to close an MOU between the two countries, which is intended to develop the energy interconnection between the participants, for the efficient use of the infrastructure and for the cooperation of the participants in this field. The provisions of this MOU are in line with the agreements in the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the UK and the European Union. The MOU does not refer to a specific project, as the United Kingdom has to tender for each energy project, but declares the intention of both countries to cooperate and strive to encourage and promote strategic and technical cooperation between their system operators, regulators and stakeholders. Working groups, similar to the methodology for the Triton Link with Denmark, will be launched in the next week to further develop the Nautilus project, also in collaboration with network operators and regulators. In my question, the MOU has been extended to decarbonisation, so that both countries can cooperate further in areas other than electricity connection, for example for hydrogen or CCS, for which working groups will be set up as soon as possible to develop this further. No licence applications have been made at the moment, therefore no authorisation has been granted. In the meantime, both network operators, Elia and National Grid, are working on the connection. The regulations in the United Kingdom are changing, so not all permits can yet be issued and the wind farms to be connected have yet to be identified. Everything will be followed up in the Nautilus working group I just mentioned. The timeline is currently high level and needs to be more specific by the end of this year. It must be included in Elijah's investment plan, among other things. At present, 3 years are expected for the licensing process and the commercial and tender process, so that a final decision can be made in 2025. Then construction can be started so that the connector can be put into operation by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u84	Madam Secretary, thank you for your update. Mr President, I think it is interesting to invite Elia to our committee during the course of this year for all these projects, specifically in view of the planned investments. After all, there is a link with the energy standard, and therefore with the budget, I suppose. It's all projects in progress that run over several years, but it's not inappropriate to have the network manager come here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u85	I would like to refer to my earlier remark. I am not a professional pessimist who sees everything go wrong, but there are many timelines that overlap, and that also make critical whether something can work or not. The weakest part determines the entry into service. After all, we cannot use detours to get the energy flowing. Perhaps this is a matter that we can look at during the work. We can also look together with the cabinet at what is happening, but Elijah will certainly be given a role in this. I would like to stick to simple schedules where critical times are seen and where general budget management can be followed would be very useful for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u86	Mr President, Minister, high energy prices are creating increasingly difficult payments for families. It has been a long time since the most vulnerable, because the middle class is also in trouble. The Social Energy Fund supports the OCMWs in helping people with payment problems. However, a question from De Standaard a few weeks ago gave rise to a gloomy picture, because a significant part of the OCMW's see the relief questions increase by a quarter to half. According to a team counselor debt mediation, more and more people are paying for quality of life. Today the RTBF organises a theme day together with Test Purchase. There are a lot of questions coming in and there are catchy testimonies to hear, for example from people who even cut their light because they don't know how to save. Often it's about people with jobs. The team supervisor calls debt mediation the current crisis situation unseen. At the beginning of this legislature, you promised, together with your fellow Minister for Combating Poverty, Mrs Lalieux, that this government would provide sufficient resources for the Social Energy Fund. In the Committee on Energy, I have already said that there are currently insufficient resources. This already emerged in December in our hearing on high energy prices. Madam Minister, my first question is what action you have taken in the meantime, together with your fellow Minister Lalieux. In the press, Minister Lalieux spoke of an important consultation with the OCMW federations, in the meantime three weeks ago. What came out of that meeting? How much money is the fund short today to meet all needs? On 24 January I submitted a written question on this subject, but I have not yet received an answer. Will the government allocate sufficient funds to the Social Energy Fund so that it can meet all needs? Perhaps you will answer that there is a need for an additional amount, on top of what you have already given, to meet all needs. In addition, an adjustment of the indexation mechanism is also necessary, also an old very, so that the fund's resources can follow the real price increases. In short, how far have you progressed? When will you work on the indexation mechanism and sufficient resources for the fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u87	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, you are talking about statements made by my fellow Minister Lalieux in the press about consultation with the OCMW federations. The OMCWs are within its competence and I cannot, of course, answer the question of what comes out of that consultation. With regard to the Social Energy Fund, I would like to point out that we have provided additional funding at two times. The first element is that, as a government, we have chosen not to freeze registered funding. The standard policy of the previous government was not to index resources. We have reversed this in Parliament and, with the current government, we are continuing this policy. So we are not returning to the practice of the previous government. This will provide an additional EUR 8 million for the fund. In addition, in the light of the first energy package, it has been decided to provide EUR 16 million of additional funding that OCMWs can deploy in 2022. With regard to the use of these resources, there is also a circular distributed by Minister Lalieux and myself, in which we focus on its preventive use. Mr Lalieux and I have always argued in favour of providing the fund with additional resources and paying attention to preventive social energy policy. The adjustment of the indexation mechanism is not at present the subject of a consensus within the government. There is, on the one hand, the funding of the fund and the questions about it are entirely justified. We are partly responding by indexing resources and providing additional funding. On the other hand, there is also the question of the use of these resources. The law effectively distinguishes and provides both the preventive and curative slopes. We must not lose sight of this preventive aspect. Together with the OCMW's we can go a long way there. Today there is a lot of focus on the curative aspect, not unjustly. The funds are often used curatively in the context of wider debt mediation and wider debt issues. That's actually the first thing that can be done. Curative and preventive, however, could go more hand in hand. We have tried to improve the framework for the funds of 16 million from earlier this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u88	We welcome the measures you have taken. You have also acknowledged that they are insufficient. There seems to be no consensus in the government on the adjustment of the indexation mechanism, which I regret. Two years ago, a hearing was held on the social energy fund with the federations of OCMWs. This showed that as long as the resources are not sufficient, the preventive part, i.e. encouraging or helping to purchase energy-efficient devices, will disappear. You are right to point this out, and you want to raise the issue of prevention. That's just gonna go away if there aren't enough resources. That makes sense. First the fire is put out and then other measures can only be considered. That is an additional argument to allocate sufficient resources. Hopefully you will continue to fight for it if there is no unity left in the government. I will continue to ask you further questions as long as it is not enough. We have also noted that it is not part of the agreement that you concluded on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u89	Mr President, Minister, I tabled written questions between 21 and 27 January. According to Article 123 of the Rules of Procedure, the time limit for answering written questions is 20 working days, i.e. approximately one month. So far, however, I have only received one reply. So my question is simple. Where are those answers? How come there's so much backlog? Of course, I can imagine that you are experiencing busy times, but that does not prevent us from expecting answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u90	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, I should like to apologize for the fact that we are not achieving that timing. What you're saying is correct, my associates are over-questioned. It is also true that Parliament cannot be deprived of answers. On 25 January we received 3 questions via the Room. On 26 January 11 questions followed and on 28 January 9 questions. Of these questions, 5 were answered and sent to the services of the Chamber. We are making every effort to answer the remaining questions as soon as possible. 3 answers have already been finalized and will reach you soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u91	Mr President, Minister, there can of course always be some delay, including with the services. Of course, these are often topical questions, and if we do not have an answer seven weeks later, the topical and urgent debate is already over. I understand that you are working on it, and I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u92	Madam Minister, since the beginning of the energy crisis, we have pointed out that there are also winners in the energy crisis. The energy multinationals are currently making huge profits from usury. Last year, the French Total made more than 13 billion euros of profit, with us it's Engie Electrabel who's going to be dormant. You have said a great many times that no one should enrich themselves in this crisis, but the government has not yet taken any concrete measures to take away the excess profits of the energy sector. What is more, you explicitly said yesterday that you are waiting for an initiative from the European Commission, while last week both the International Energy Agency and the European Commission called on the Member States to tax the excess profits and reduce the energy bill. After all, taxation is still a matter for national governments. So you're actually sending the people from the locker to the wall, Madam Secretary. What is the government waiting for? In the absence of the government's initiative, last week my group tabled a legislative proposal for the introduction of an overprofit tax, in line with the recommendations of the International Energy Agency. However, a draft from the government still has a greater chance in Parliament. Will the government take any action at all to take away the excess profits? Yesterday, the government communicated that in the absence of a European initiative, you will only develop your own initiative in June 2022. Why do you do this so late, because all the elements are on the table? The figures are available and there is a green light from the CREG and the European Commission. The CREG has also produced a report on the excess profits, but it does not contain any real figures. You asked the CREG to release those figures, and I understand that the CREG is now negotiating with Engie to get them. By the end of this month, the numbers would come. I hope you'll take care of this. Thirdly, you have asked for additional research work again. If I am not mistaken, it is about realising the excess profits of the gas plants. We also saw figures on this yesterday. Additional numerical work can always be done, but that should not prevent you from speeding up a legal proposal to skim those excess profits. What concrete steps have you taken in the legal field? Are you working on a draft bill to skim off those profits? If so, when can we receive that? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u93	Mr Warmoes, I am working on a smart solution to what is currently making the energy market so expensive for all customers, businesses and families, not only in Belgium but throughout Europe, and which should calm the irrational behaviour of traders on those European gas hubs. Feel free to call it a war measure, but it will bring down the gas price in Europe. If we get the gas price under control, then we will also get the electricity price under control and there will be much less usury profits that we have to skim off with all kinds of legally difficult constructions. It starts with the definition of usury itself. For example, the difficulty encountered by the CREG in its report with its definition was already striking. In itself, a cap on gas prices is more efficient and faster, because by means of taxes on usury profits, it is far too late to pay people back. We must organise this refund, not only to families, but also to the self-employed and businesses, and then we risk a legal mess. This is the slope we're working on, but don't worry. We have asked the CREG to further objectify what these usury profits are, and the government has effectively decided on Monday to take its own initiative towards the summer. Given the complexity of this, both mapping and other issues, such as TotalEnergy in France and to which you refer, we await the input of the CREG to which we have asked for concrete proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u94	Madam Secretary, I am deeply disappointed by your reply. Actually, you're saying that you're not planning to rob those profits. You say that you do not know exactly what its definition is and that we should try to reduce the price of gas so that there are fewer excess profits. According to the International Energy Agency, these excess profits would be EUR 200 billion. That money's inside anyway. There is, of course, a connection with the poor measures your government is taking, with the liberals' objections, and perhaps others' objections, which weigh on the budget. If you are not going to get the money where it is, then you can intervene very little, but in the meantime people are facing payment problems. The measures you are taking are not ambitious enough. You're always putting it off. You say that no one should enrich themselves, but in reality there are parties that enrich themselves and you do nothing about it. Waarvan akte.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u95	Madam Minister, last week there was a hearing with the CREG on the next round of CRM grants in September 2022. In its proposal for the auction volume of the next T-4 auction, the CREG again strongly criticised Elia and her way of working. I shall not go into the fact that the report was published, although it should not have been. Network operator Elia has so far refused to share detailed quantitative information and is therefore threatening to overestimate the auction volume. Therefore, the figures of Elia........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We therefore come to the same conclusion on the basis of the figures in Elia's network operator report. It's not that hard. All we have to do is add up the right numbers and subtract them. Yet Elijah denied in the press that new gas plants would arrive in the next auction. You, too, stated that you did not understand how the VRT, who released all this, or the CREG came to that conclusion. Again, it follows directly from the results of that network operator report. It is true that the CREG says that Elijah's report contains many mistakes and carelessness. However, that does not contradict the figures. The CREG quite rightly complains that Elia cannot explain qualitatively the differences between the volume in 2025 and the much higher volume in 2026 - about 1,000 megawatts if I am not mistaken. Elia refers to climate modelling, but it should reduce and not increase the necessary volume net. For the calculation for 2025 the climate was not taken into account, for the calculation of 2026 it did. Normally, less energy is expected as a result of the warming effect. At the request of the CREG, Elia refuses to carry out a simulation without climate modelling or a simulation that takes into account only the last 30 historical climate years. However, this is the only way to assess the impact of climate modelling. The CREG points out that when determining the intermediate price limit, Elia takes twice the minimum return and thus recalculates itself richly there. Madam Secretary, you have sent a letter to Elijah and the CREG, thank you, and have asked Elijah to share the necessary information. Last week, we questioned the CREG about this and it said that it did receive additional information - they even called it an explanatory note - but still not the interim results of the simulations, nor the additional simulation requested. How is it possible that if the Energy Minister himself demands that Elijah share the information, Elia refuses? Then we have a big problem, don't we? After all, a private company is in the process of giving hundreds of millions of euros of grants to tax money to other private companies by blowing up the volume and increasing the price limit, to the extent that you would of course follow Elijah in it. Why do you conclude from Elijah's figures that there would be no need for additional new gas plants? However, this is clear from the figures themselves. Will you force Elia to perform a simulation without climate modelling or with only 30 historical climate years, in order to check the effect of climate modelling? Will you ask Elia to recalculate the intermediate price limit without taking the minimum return twice, as requested by the CREG? Have you made a decision on the auction volume of the next auction? That decision should in principle be taken before 31 March. If that decision has not been made today, and I assume you will not give me a scoop here, will it be taken in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u96	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, my answer to your last question is that we are still analysing the proposals and opinions for the upcoming auction. We will have to discuss this further within the government. We are still working on the analysis for the determination of the auction volume. I would like to say a few things about that. In the context of the auction volume 2026 this is too easily traced back to gas plants. It beats me that the regulator does that himself. The CRM is technology-neutral. We should have learned lessons from the auction that has already ended. During the previous auction, I myself made the mistake of talking about two or three gas plants. I have always talked about the volume if that were to be expressed in the number of gas plants required. We were confronted with two gas plants and battery projects that we didn't expect. This is because we had designed the CRM design in such a way that these projects would receive more support. It is the reality of violence by expressing the volume in certain technologies. The design is technology-neutral and different technologies can be selected. In fact, only certain aspects of the circulating studies are always highlighted. When we find that the derating factors are also rising dramatically, this means that batteries are becoming even more interesting. I also think it is special that the regulator criticises the calculations on the one hand, but on the other hand draws conclusions. As far as climate years are concerned, we have already discussed this a great deal in Parliament and in committee. The methodology, as established by ECER, indicates three options for taking climate years into account. The option chosen by Elia when she established the methodology was to work with Météo France's climate database, 200 synthetic climate years representative of the climate 2025 and also likely. This approach was also chosen by ENTSO-E for the future adequacy studies, with implementation in 2023. In fact, we have been leading Belgium on the future approach of the adequacy studies. This has also been the subject of negotiations with the European Commission on the CRM. This, of course, sets the bar at a certain level and has a direct impact on other countries that will conduct adequacy studies. It is also referred to in the Commission's decision approving the CRM, where it is also effectively endorsed. In the CRM Task Force of 6 May 2021, no objections were raised by interested parties or authorities to the use of Météo France's database. There are three options and one can always choose another option, but one should not choose another option because you do not like the result. We have chosen the option that gives the most robust result, in particular the choice in terms of methodology, which is not just a sum of climate years or which looks purely at the past, but makes the best possible assessment. The CRM and the determination of the volume are about the 'right enough', not too much, not too little. The underlying methodology should therefore be as robust as possible. That is why we have made that choice in terms of climate years. One can of course opt for a different methodology, but it cannot be the intention to choose the methodology that gives the lowest result. We want to guarantee supply and use the best possible methodology. The analysis for the determination of the intermediate price is still ongoing. You specifically ask me about the minimum return. It seems to me at first sight, and subject to the outcome of the analysis, that the methodology established for the auction of 2022 in the latest version of the Royal Decree, in particular as regards the risk premium, was not taken into account. This is therefore subject to further analysis. For the rest, we will continue to examine the documents in order to determine the volume of auction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic726x.u97	Madam Minister, although CRM technology is neutral, the volume corresponds to that of one to two gas plants and the auction for 2025 has indeed resulted in two gas plants. There's a lot of chance it's gonna be gas power stations at the next auction, but we can still see that in the future. It is essentially about a volume, with a high probability that it will be supplied by gas plants. I also think there's been a misunderstanding. I understand that there are three methodologies available and that a particular model has been chosen, but if that results in very surprising results, then we must question that model. I am not concerned that the CREG should put another model first, because the result of the chosen model is not satisfactory. I'm just trying to understand how something totally illogical is happening. Climate change is being taken into account, which is actually global warming. I refer to the study by the VUB which has been proposed in Parliament and which predicts less severe winters. But then suddenly it appears from the calculation that 1,000 megawatts of extra capacity is needed. That doesn't make any sense at all. Then it seems logical to me that the CREG should ask for a different method of calculation, so that it can check whether this results in the same way. I do not want to choose a different calculation, but rather to understand how one suddenly arrives at that result. To date, this has not been explained, according to the CREG. According to Elijah, the figure is related to climate change, but that doesn't make sense. I'm gonna keep hammering on this. I regret that you are following Elia in this and that the calculation method is as a black box with 200 synthetic years and a certain result to take or leave. Period. I think that we need to look into this more closely, all the more so because last week the CREG concerns EUR 750 million more or less on the electricity bill. You also say that you are investigating the intermediate price limit. We'll see about that. The CRM remains a major problem for me. A private company like Elijah can, as far as you would take over, give hundreds of millions of euros in tax money to other private companies. Apart from any ties between Elijah and such private companies, I leave that in the middle, Elijah has an objective reason for extra capacity anyway, because the more capacity or overcapacity there is, the more comfortable it is for Elijah as network manager. I hope you will take a critical look at that. We shall look into the matter with our eyes open. I have urged you several times to take climate change into account in the auction of 2025. You said you couldn't. Now you would allow the impact of climate change to be exploited to auction additional capacity, with some probability even for fossil gas plants. For a green minister, that defies all imagination. We will follow up on the file, Madam Secretary.
