ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic734x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, in order to work efficiently, I will refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic734x.u2	Mr Van Hecke, as you know, the offer of gambling activities by private operators has grown considerably in recent years. The stakes placed with these private operators are now estimated at €10 billion, compared to €1.5 billion at the National Lottery. Just to give you an idea, ten years ago, the turnover was about the same. It then fluctuated around 1 billion euros for both the National Lottery and the private market. In this context, the National Lottery is forced to remain competitive and modernise. The National Lottery has a legal obligation by means of a modern and attractive offer to attract existing players of lotteries, bets, matches and games of chance to play with a low risk, without market expansion. To this end, the National Lottery has developed a range of products to adapt to digital evolution. The task of the National Lottery is not only to offer the players recreational games, but also to protect vulnerable groups. The National Lottery will do so, firstly, by focusing its marketing policy on a broad audience participating in its small stakes and with a low frequency. Secondly, the lottery games of the National Lottery, including the digital games, all present a low risk of addiction compared to the games offered by private operators. For example, the National Lottery has no games in its offer in which one gets 0.95 euro cents or more for each euro bet. Moreover, it never gives the impression that the result is controlled, which is very often the case with private games. The new games of the National Lottery are also systematically subject to risk analysis under the supervision of the Supreme Court of Ethics on Lottery Games and Gaming. Thirdly, there are the mandatory playing limits on the e-Lotto platform, which effectively protect players. Players cannot increase their playing limits indefinitely as is unfortunately too often the case with private operators. As far as the latter is concerned, it is regrettable to note that bonuses and even very large gifts are still being offered, but I cannot say much about this because of the division of powers. I've only expressed my opinion in emotion. Fourthly, the fact that the CEO is allusioning to the fact that all the profits of the National Lottery go back to the collection, including a transparent policy on a good cause policy of EUR 200 million, undoubtedly contributes to a credible policy of responsible management. After all, all profits from the National Lottery go to charities. It is important that we continue to emphasise this. I have had discussions on this with the National Lottery before. I think we should make it clear to people that they should not play to make a lot of money, which is often the case with private games, where they think they have control and can win a lot of money. If one does it already, one has to assume the logic that it is actually about support that is provided through charities. After all, that is a better way to deal with it than to make people feel that it is a game system that they have control over and on which they can make a lot of money. On each of these four points, the National Lottery makes a difference with the private games of chance. The National Lottery has always been open to the VAD and other centres of expertise. For example, in 2020, the National Lottery asked the VAD to appoint an external expert to the former Responsible Game Committee, which was to give a concrete opinion on the launch of the new lottery products, marketing campaigns and all matters relating to responsible play. Unfortunately, VAD refused, but we must continue to offer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic734x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I am following the issue very closely, because in the Committee on Justice, which discusses gambling legislation, we have been trying to tighten up legislation step by step for years, which is really necessary. There is, of course, a difference between the private and the public operators. We must also be careful not to create the image as if the private sector were the bad guys, although there are many with bad intentions and there is only one goal, namely to make as much profit as possible, and everything that the National Lottery does is safe and good. As I suggested in my question, the National Lottery also offers products aimed at young people. In the description it sounds: "Are you going on a trek in the pyramids and conquering their hidden treasures? Take part in the most colourful races and take a dip in the lucky fountains. At Woohoo there is something for everyone." That's not an ad for 40s or 50s sitting behind his computer screen. The VAD has conducted surveys on young people to assess the state of addiction behaviour in general, but also separate surveys on gambling. At a very young age, young people often buy scratch notes from the National Lottery. That is not allowed, but they still succeed. Young people are therefore attracted to those perhaps at first glance some more innocent games, but they are also triggers to move on. Therefore, attention should be paid to protecting the most vulnerable groups, including young people. I am therefore pleased that there will be more protection. The text was adopted. The EPIS list is very important, but it does not apply here. In short, the Lottery must also pay attention to vulnerable groups, especially young people. For the rest, I fully agree with your reservations about the bonuses. In the legislative proposal before us in the Committee on Justice, we want to go much further in this area and abolish the bonuses. They're murderous. I hope that within a few weeks we will find a political majority to move forward on this. Then it is also logical that we should consider how we can maximise the approximation of the legislation on games of chance where relevant with the legislation on lotteries. That is a lot of work and the lobby is very strong. We will certainly follow it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic734x.u4	Question No 55022925C by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf is transformed into a written question.
