ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for the report of the first reading of the draft law, I refer to the written report. I will report orally from the second reading. We had the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of 21 February 2022. As the first speaker, Mr Wollants spoke for the N-VA Group. The speaker began his speech by examining the consistency with the operating rules laid down in preparation for the whole process of pre-qualification and auctioning. Mr Wollants explained that this is important because the operating rules are the Bible for the CRM. The question would arise as to whether the proposed legislative amendment is in line with the rules of operation or whether the amendment of the law requires amendments to the rules of operation with retroactive effect. In the latter case, can tenders submitted under a given framework still be used within that framework after the rules of the game have changed? That's what Mr. Wollants was wondering. After that, Mr Wollants also noted that the government deliberately deviated from what the Minister himself submitted to the King for approval in May 2021. According to the paragraph, this has two consequences. The first consequence is that if the rules of the new draft law are followed, at the time of the audit 31 August 2023 there is still the possibility that the capacity contract may have to be dissolved due to the unavailability in accordance with the operating rules. A second consequence, according to the paragraph, is that this other definition is being used consciously by the Minister. Thirdly, Mr Wollants was also concerned about the Minister's doubts about the outcome of the so-called rerun. Therefore, even stronger than at first reading, Mr Wollants felt that the draft law could not be adopted. He announced an amendment No. 1 to Article 2 of the draft law. According to Mr Wollants, this amendment prevents the capacity that has not yet reached the milestone permits from being cancelled at the time of the audit, 31 August 2023, at a time when it is no longer possible to provide for replacement capacity. I then spoke to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I referred to my speech at first reading. Then there was a question of clarification for the Minister on Article 3 of the bill. Indeed, there could possibly be a contradiction between what is contained in the explanatory memorandum and the text of Article 3 of the draft law. After that, Mr Ravyts of the Flemish Interest Group acknowledged that he had asked for a second reading. He stated that he had no choice but to look towards the minister's predecessor. According to Mr Ravyts, the statements made by Mrs Marghem mean that the Minister has given substance to the general and legal framework of the CRM in a problematic way. For Mr Ravyts, a written confirmation by the European Commission is crucial, as is the inclusion of a provision allowing suspensive conditions in the draft law, so that the legal regime would be sufficiently robust. Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem of the MR Group was next. It noted that the previous speakers had raised legal considerations to which it attached itself. She indicated that she would not take part in the vote in order to remain faithful to herself and her legal background. Mr Verduyckt from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats was then appointed. He felt that this rerun was a major step forward, as he had already indicated at first reading. After all, the licensing aspect is important. As regards Amendment No. 1 by Mr Wollants, Mr Verduyckt, pointed out that a licence could always be appealed against and that such uncertainty could always exist. Mr Verduyckt also said that he understood that the Minister was focusing on the existence of a permit and not on the possibility of appealing against it. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore support this draft law, according to Mr Verduyckt. It was then Mr Warmoes of the PVDA Group. For Mr Warmoes there is no doubt that this bill is part of a political game that serves specific interests. He indicated that his group would vote against this bill. The Minister replied to a number of questions raised during the speeches by the various speakers. First of all, it responds to Amendment No. 1 by Mr Wollants that the draft law does indeed refer to the permit issued at last administrative stage. It is explicitly intended not to rule on jurisdictional procedures in the Council of State or the Council of Authorisations Disputes, for example. Such procedures will always be possible. The government can't pin itself on this. In this respect, the Minister stresses that, regardless of the scenario, replacement capacity will be needed by 2025 and that no one disputes this. With regard to the supply security objective, an executable permit is a relevant criterion as it can start those projects. According to the Minister, Mr Wollants' amendment cannot be dealt with. As regards the choice of an additional allocation, the Minister replied to Mr Wollants' question on the impact of the number of bidders on the pricing and referred to the explanatory memorandum, which clarifies that the operating rules remain applicable, unless there is an implicit or explicit deviation from them. The Minister replied to Mr Wollants that he himself called at first reading to be particularly careful when publishing the auction report by considering the information that had to be published or not. She says that in the CRM Task Force of 17 February 2022, where the CREG was also present, Elia proposed to draw up a report, in which all volume-related information can be communicated, but not the information linked to prices. She then explained that there was a material error in the explanatory memorandum. Finally, the Minister reiterates that replacement capacity is needed to ensure security of supply and that this draft law is therefore crucial to guarantee the security of supply of the country. Then there were the replies, in which Mr Wollants first explained that the Council of State's opinion was right both for the Minister and for himself. In addition, he considered that the Minister was at enormous risk by not covering himself against the possible destruction of the Les Awirs gas plant permit. Mr Wollants reiterates that his amendment No. 1 is intended to cover the risk that the licence of the Les Awirs plant will eventually be destroyed. He felt that his amendment was aimed at ensuring security of supply, while the Minister took a chance to see whether it would win or lose. The Minister will have to decide how the requirement of transparency can be reconciled with that of confidentiality regarding the publication of the auction report, according to Mr Wollants. Finally, he considers that the retroactive effect of the law relating to an auction that has already taken place will be a problem if one of the providers does not agree with the additional allocation. For all these reasons, the N-VA Group will not support this bill. In his reply, Mr Ravyts said that the Flemish Interest Group had no political responsibility for this situation and will therefore vote against the draft law. Mr Leysen of the Open Group says with an open mind with regard to all options and taking into account all aspects, geopolitical realism and technological neutrality, that it is reasonable and justified to support the draft law. Then there was the Rule-by-Rule discussion and vote, with Rule 1 being adopted unanimously. In Article 2, Mr Wollants tabled amendment No. 1 in. Mr Wollants referred to his speech during the general discussion. Amendment No 2 was rejected by 9 votes to 5, with 1 abstention. Article 2 was adopted without further discussion by 9 votes to 6. No comments shall be made on Article 3. This Article was adopted by 9 votes to 6. No comments shall be made on Article 4. Article 4 was adopted by 9 votes to 6. The draft law as a whole is adopted without amendment by 9 votes to 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u4	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Buyst for the detailed report on the second reading. Colleagues, what is on the table here today? You all know that we had an auction last year, the very first auction for the CRM, and that there was a lot of applause after the auction. Everyone was convinced that the auction went well, correctly and completely, in the best possible circumstances. However, we have to note that a draft law is on the table today in order to review the specific auction that has gone so well. Why is that? One of the providers had submitted a file that did not comply with the environmental permit. It did not meet the standards, it did not comply with the circular issued by the Minister responsible. As we know, the Flemish Government has had a nitrogen agreement since yesterday which confirms once again by the entire Flemish government that the standards are somewhat higher than those proposed for the Vilvoorde plant. In other words, the dossier that was then rejected also does not comply with the new nitrogen agreement. It was to be expected that it would go that way. We can make it perfectly clear that this file, the plant like that one, did indeed go under the bar. It was right that no authorisation was granted for this. At the same time, it should be noted that the main aim of the proposed amendments to the law is to solve the situation of one or the other supplier alone. It is striking that just that provider apparently remains very calm under the fact that its plant will be removed from the auction results. I do not think it will be possible otherwise, because the dates that are foreseen make it impossible to meet the criterion of having a permanent licence at the same time, which cannot then yet be challenged in appeal under the same rules. I do not see how this plant will be able to meet the conditions. This has become clearer after the proposal with parameters published by the CREG more than a week ago. Much has already been said about this in the Committee on Energy and in plenary sessions. It seems that this plant will return to the auction that will be organised after the summer. That could explain a lot of things. It is about how this dossier has been dealt with, with a focus only on that one Vilvoorde plant and with a retroactive adjustment of the cases. At the time when the operators who submitted the plant pre-qualified and then offered in the auction, they received the signal that everything was in order. Everything was perfectly correct, according to the rules of operation which the Minister himself submitted to the King for approval. Now, with retroactive effect, another decision is taken. In this way, it seems to me that cases are exposed to legal uncertainty. It is absolutely not so clear whether this will last in the long term. In my view, the question of whether this is going to last is mainly due to the answer to the question of whether more capacity will actually be auctioned in September. Elia says today that there is no reason for additional gas plants. In that case, I am very curious how the provider of the Vilvoorde plant will respond to this story. If there is capacity, then the provider will keep quiet and quiet, because then he will be discussed again. That's what it's gonna be about for a big piece. It is also very striking that the definition used in the operating rules and the definition used in the present draft law is so far apart. The rules of operation clearly state that licences should not be open to appeal to the Council of State or the Council for Authorisations. That part has been deleted in view of the draft law as it stands. Of course, I understand why. We all want the Les Awirs power station to remain in the story, even though there is now a request to be destroyed by the Council of State. In the future, it will be clear whether that permit will be destroyed. Then we find ourselves in the strange situation that the draft law provides for a review in March, but Les Awirs will have a permit at that time. No one says, however, that a few months later it will still be possible to present it. That creates a very special situation. The Minister therefore argues in her draft law that the proposed procedure is the only possible one. All other procedures, such as targeted auctions or capacity provision procedures announced in the CRM Act, would not have been fully discussed with Europe. So all we've got is plan A, and we know that by now. However, it was established that those who did not comply with their obligations and did not obtain the milestone permit in August 2023 are subject to penalty or even termination of the contract. However, it is too late to build another gas plant and start a new route by another route. For Les Awirs there could be another problem. We cannot, of course, anticipate the decision of the Council of State. However, I should like to warn that the professional applicants partly argue that the Walloon Region was not prepared to deal with the appeal in the permis unique procedure in substance. It has been assumed that those who challenged it could not demonstrate any interest. That is bizarre, because a few days after the ruling, the organisation AgainstGas Dégaze presented a number of signatories to the appeal, who live in the immediate vicinity of the new power station. In my view, therefore, there is a real chance that problems will arise again, which cannot be solved without reason, as the Minister argues in the motivation of the draft. So I'm a little worried about that. Nor does it reassure me that the Minister refused to supply the documents requested during the first and second readings. These include external legal opinions and documents on possible discussions with the European Commission on this issue. It is significant that these questions have not been addressed and that there has been no possibility of being transparent about them. I take note of that. That is only meant to save the initial, almost perfect auction, but it will depend very much on what happens next. It's not too strong a story for us. One solves a part of the problem, one exposes oneself to a number of possible risks, which one shifts to a moment when one can no longer solve these problems. People are guessing now that it'll be okay. This is entirely the responsibility of the minister and, by extension, the government. We will wait and see what happens in August 2023 in relation to milestone permits. I thought for a moment that the rules of operation would have been adapted by then. I understand that Elia has prepared a new set of operating rules. We have seen the version of 1 February and I note that the milestone permits are defined in exactly the same way as in the first set of operating rules and not in the way it is described in the draft law. This means that there are still grounds for considering procedures at the Council of State with regard to security of supply, which the government refuses to do. After a long time, therefore, I have considered that it is wise to keep my amendment. For example, the government has been warned that there is still a risk and that it will be in a period when the problem can no longer be solved. I am very curious about the elements that we will be able to receive in the coming weeks, including the auction later this year. I believe that the explanation of that auction will probably make a lot of sense. I suspect that we are suddenly again in an almost inexplicable way very close to the 3.6 Gigawatt of new capacity, which Elijah has been pushing forward over and over again for years. At the previous auction, it was said that 2,3 Gigawatt might be enough. But from the figures for about all the parameters in the network operator report published in November of last year, I have to add up - I can only conclude that more capacity needs to be auctioned. We'll see what it gives. We cannot anticipate that. But some things may be a little too coincidental. We will therefore not approve the draft law, given the risks that are being taken. We believe that you should give proper consideration to the development of the plan B. We understand that you have not done this so far and that you have not discussed it with the European Commission. We understand, above all, that you are trying not to do that anymore. This is understandable given the position of a number of parties in the government. It seems to me that it is not a future plan that we should support, because it exposes ourselves to great risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u5	Faster than expected, we discussed again in our committee the law of 29 April 1999, on which we have already had several technical and interesting discussions in recent months. That is not surprising in itself. After all, the law is an important step in the energy transition: the transition to 100% renewable energy, a transformation of the entire Belgian energy system into a more sustainable system. It is clear that the government finally wants to tackle this transition quickly and efficiently after 20 years of stop-and-go policy. The government always wants to take security of supply into account. This is ultimately what CRM is all about, a system that is necessary to ensure energy supply, so that the adverse consequences of supply uncertainty can be avoided. Actually, it's some kind of insurance premium that we pay to avoid power shortages. It is immediately a file that is far-reaching for energy players in the market, who just deserve clarity and certainty. The law we passed last year resulted in a successful auction in October 2021. We discussed it with Elijah on our committee. As a result of the discussion of this draft law, I reviewed the report of that discussion. Both Elia and the CREG and AD Energy spoke about a very successful auction, both in terms of procedure, which could even be an example for Europe as well as in terms of outcome. The reason why we have to re-examine this law here today has everything to do with the refusal of the authorisation of the flexible gas power plant at Vilvoorde, which, despite several positive opinions from the Flemish Environmental Society, the Flemish Agency for Nature and Forest, Flemish Regional Environmental Authorisation Committee, Elia, the relevant municipalities and the Flemish Administration, was not licensed by Flemish Minister Mrs Demir. This draft law now provides for a revision of the CRM. An important lesson from that first auction is that the condition for the project to have an environmental permit at the time of the auction is very important. This draft law provides for an additional check on security of supply. If there's a problem with the necessary permits, Elijah can break the contract. The Ecolo Green Group has consistently stressed in all its interventions that our energy policy must focus on security of supply, affordability and sustainability. This repair law provides for an adjustment of the CRM in order to ensure the security of energy supply. In itself, no one can oppose it. In the past period of government, too much time has been wasted on the core exit, and we must be honest about that. For a sustainable energy policy that is energy-neutral on the one hand and does not create additional environmental problems or security risks on the other, there has been insufficient preparation in the past legislative periods. The previous governments have not sufficiently addressed the problems. Our group sees this bill as a step on the road to a robust and sustainable energy system, where becoming more independent from abroad is important, as is investing in renewable energy, something for which several producers are ready. Some people dare to say that the extension of the last two nuclear power plants would make the CRM redundant, but that is wrong. It is enough to follow the French press to see that there are a lot of problems with the French nuclear park at the moment, even to the extent that there are currently 300 times more coal fired in France than the allowed limit in 2019. Colleagues, according to our group, this draft law provides for a responsible, effective and secure adjustment of the capacity mechanism so that security of supply remains assured. I repeat that security of supply, affordability and sustainability are three objectives that are important to our group. That is why we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u6	Madam Minister, this draft law is, of course, part of strengthening the scenario A that you and perhaps even the ecologists in this government want to see strengthened. This was for a long time the preferred scenario of the whole vivaldiploeg, until the moment the MR came to the understanding through a new chairman that the so-called scenario B in preparation actually remained untouched. Only in the interim political agreement of 23 December 2021 did the AD Energy list what should be done for scenario B. After all, all the attention went to the CRM. All attention was paid to the European Commission's cross-section. In fact, we needed the full core step to convince the European Commission of the inevitable supply and capacity problem that would arise without a CRM. Technology-neutral or not, T1 auction or not, from then on, Madam Secretary, you were almost haunted in a horror movie, not by a cross like in The last temptation of Christ, but by the silhouette of CO2 emission gas plants. Madam Secretary, it's called perception. From then on, the long honeymoon, in which you had a long honeymoon with the press, was gradually over. The naughty Flemish minister Zuhal Demir put solid sticks in the wheels by one of the laureates of the auction, the newly built gas plant of Vilvoorde, proposed by the ecologists as a kind of green Ecolo-Green Gas plant, not to grant a permit. Then I don't suppose that bad Limburg minister would delay for too long to run Ventilus and that the effective connection and implementation of the planned energy production in the Princess Elisabethzone would also go a little further in time. Even if Ventilus is granted and there can be no full underground construction by Elia, the many involved CD&V mayors in my province will not so much focus their sights on the naughty minister from Limburg, but on Green. But you're a fighter and sometimes fighting is rewarded. Sometimes, because today it is clear that you can only draw the MR and Open Vld across the line of the safety net that is being stretched today to allow a complete nuclear exit, because those parties hope or even want the energy future in this country to be drawn by at least a pair of horses, i.e. the CRM with a limited number of gas plants and two nuclear production sites. To this end, they even want to convince the European Commission. Allow me to call that the Lachaert plan, as Mr Lachaert has been planning to play some of Georges-Louis' look-alike over the last few weeks. The Liberals stand out, but for the time being you are reacting narrowly and dismissively. You also make it clear that the European Commission, even in the light of the changed geopolitical and thus energy-economic context in Europe, will never want to play in this game. In this case, the CRM would be lost and should be restarted from the outset. To sum up, Mr De Vriendt's and Mr Vanden Burre's group are concerned today with fulfilling a necessary condition for the complete nuclear trip. And so not only, as one wants to make it appear in communication, about ensuring security of supply. As one has eel in the green and eel in cream, one also has two types of preparation of security of supply - it is a thinker - namely à la Van der Straeten, so eel in the green, and à la Lachaert, Boucherz and Marghem, rather creamy. For the group of Mrs De Block and my committee chairman, Mr Leysen, today we are talking about the continued existence of the current CRM, with some adapted operating rules, and to make it traceable with a more limited but still present nuclear production in this country. More importantly, Mr Lachaert asked, perhaps to the great annoyance of the tandem Ecolo-Green, whether Green wanted the core trip to explain the expensive invoice. Fantastic, Vivaldi. I will not hide the fact that our group would rather eat eels in cream than eels in green and therefore see more bread in the slopes of Lachaert than in the slopes of Van der Straeten. Madam Minister, the intention is now to ensure that the capacity contract with the unauthorized capacity can be broken and that the contract will then be allocated to the next unselected but authorised project. However, this possibility is only provided for the participants in the previous auction. So it's a re-run, a patch, a recovery. You say that this bill has been preceded by several discussions and analyses. Mrs Marghem, Mr Wollants and Mr Ben Accour asked for documents, analyses, opinions. People were worried - we have just heard from Mr Wollants that this is still the case today - that the story you are serving here, the dish you are serving here today, is not legally robust. You feel strengthened by the advice of the Council of State. You also feel strengthened by the European Commission, which has confirmed to you that this solution is perfectly possible within the framework of positive state aid and that you should not even notify. However, the other Members and I also asked for some evidence on the table, which did not really come. We had to do it with the opinion of the Council of State. The political agreement of 23 December 2021 also provided for an additional check on 15 March or 18 March 2022. Should it become apparent that a capacity at that time does not have the necessary permits and that this seriously jeopardises the security of supply of the country, the possibility of repairing the previous auction will be provided. The draft law also provides for a prior authorisation requirement for the following auctions. The committee discussed for a long time whether the legislative amendment on the table is in line with the CRM operating rules, or whether the legislative amendment just requires adjustments to the operating rules, even with retroactive effect. In other words, it was a long debate about changing the rules of the game and its consequences. I must confess that I had some ears for Mr Wollants' reasoning, reasoning and logic. Mr Wollants, I have already announced that I will support the amendment that has been retained. You have already explained the amendment. Madam President, I can repeat everything very technically here, but I will not do so in the light of the hour. In any case, at Les Awirs we are talking about Flémalle and Thierry Warmoes' friends. After all, that is the Dégaze movement. We must be honest and face each other with an open mind. Madam Minister, you have made a kind of own draft law or, as Mrs Marghem called it, crafted it together. Mr. Wollants called it gambling or poker. The aim was to be able to say about Les Awirs that it was a fully approved permit, which you no longer expected to have any problems with. I call that gambling. I'm not exactly a gambler. What do the friends of Mr Warmoes and what do Mr Warmoes and his group want? No gas plants, no nuclear production, but a kind of communist renewable energy production, 100% in government hands. Mr Warmoes, the PVDA deserves an innovation prize, because communism is not immediately environmentally friendly or sustainable in terms of industry. So innovation in communism. This is not even disputed in the negationist booklet Another view on Stalin, of the perhaps embalmed Lenin of PVDA, the lamented Ludo Martens, from the famous West-Flemish municipality of Wingene. Mr Warmoes, don't say you don't know this book. Back to Flemalles. With Les Awirs they take a risk. Madam President, I will conclude. I spoke at the beginning of my speech about the long honeymoon of Tine Van der Straeten which is over today. Today she has to go through bullying behavior, and that every week against bullying. For example, she only just had to refute the apparently wrong fact check on the excise duties of the energy expert of the VRT, Mr Luc Pauwels, or there was another Scudraketje, this afternoon with great pleasure fired by Mrs Marghem. A storm in a glass of water according to Elijah's CEO, but yet again an attempt at destabilization. Mr Wollants has sensed a lack of advice and is asking for a more detailed explanation in committee, supported by Mr Warmoes and myself. This is indeed about the CREG, which, at the request of Elia's recent network operators' report, may require the construction of new gas plants for the next generation of capacity. Another new one, for that 3.6 gigawattuur of missing capacity. This to secure the winter of 2026-2027. There is greater demand than and less availability of foreign capacity, as well as lower production of renewable energy. But according to the Minister, these were bold, premature conclusions and we will hear at the next hearing to what extent the CREG excuses go up to Elia or are even sincere. Madam Secretary, you're in the line of fire. But you look fitter than the age-old Clint Eastwood in the top movie of the same name. Yet we will not play along. We have not created the current situation, which means that an escape route must now be found for the Vilvoorde problem. The uncertainty about security of supply has been created politically by 20 years of mispolicy, which we agree on, in the area of federal energy policy in this country. Madam President, I would like to conclude with a little bounce. Mr Wollants is the only member of the N-VA group present. It's a thinker. I need you to think with me. The new Al Pacino has arrived at my home: House of Gucci. The word "Gucci" rings a bell right away. Then we talk about the fashion world, the world of mannequins. Did you know, Madam President, that there are also mannequins in this House? Both male and female mannequins. They even organize a fashion defilé in their group rooms. I was on the jury, and I'm sorry, but they flunked. Why? Because those mannequins are responsible for this politically created situation. The mannequins were in the federal government between October 2014 and December 2018 and said:après nous le déluge. We're not gonna throw ourselves in front of those nuclear power plants at Charles Michel, are we? Only for the Marrakech Pact, we are throwing ourselves at it, with little electoral success. And then there is this lamented Dalida, whispering to me from the afterlife. I know I don't look like Alain Delon at all, but Dalida tells me that with those mannequins of the N-VA with their sweaters against the core trip only the song Paroles, Paroles fits.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u7	Madam President, I wish to speak at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u8	Madam Minister, our security of supply must not, of course, be compromised, not yesterday, nor today, nor tomorrow. We are in the middle of an energy transition where we need to focus more on renewable energy. If we want to light the lamp, we will have to add additional capacity anyway. Whether we close down all nuclear power stations or not, we need additional capacity and it will not come naturally. That's not a new element. We all have that concern for a long time. Since 2019, many parties have shared this concern and therefore a resolution has been adopted in Parliament that has laid the foundations of the CRM. Together with Mr Wollants, you have taken an initiative for this and today that CRM is in operation. We are three years later today and the first auction is now over. Looking back, we can say that auction was successful. That's what several players said. More projects were submitted than necessary and therefore the cost is also lower than initially estimated. So that was a success. Unfortunately, shortly after the auction, one of the two selected projects, Vilvoorde's gas plant, was refused a licence. That, of course, represented a risk to our security of supply. This is the first time an auction of this kind has been organised in our country. That was a very important task, and it also required very difficult legislation. We have always said that, because it was the first time, we had to adjust and evaluate it if necessary. That's what we're doing now. Today there is an update of the legislation to ensure that there is more security of supply and that we have more certainty about the projects submitted. From now on, all participants in the auction must have a licence in advance. We believe that this is a good adjustment, which is also necessary effectively, because the concerns about our energy supply have probably never been more topical, but also the concerns about the affordability of electricity and gas has perhaps never been as great as today. For us, security of supply and affordability go hand in hand. They are crucial, so we certainly should not take any risks. For this reason, I repeat, we need to examine all the slopes, both slope A and slope B. Mr Ravyts, you are talking about eels in green or eels in red, but with us there is also fried eels. I don't mind that being investigated, too. Plan A, B or C, all scenarios can be examined for us and must be put on the table. We will assess them according to two criteria: security of supply and affordability. CD&V welcomes the amendment of the CRM legislation in order to ensure clarity and certainty. We will certainly support the draft law and hope that our energy mix will be clarified quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u9	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing new under the sun, we continue to oppose the CRM, the subsidy mechanism for new gas plants of ENGIE Electrabel. You will not be surprised that we will not support this draft law to repair last year's CRM auction. We are opposed to abandoning our supply of energy to large multinationals, which must therefore be convinced by large subsidies to invest. That is precisely what the CRM is doing, maintaining the profits of multinationals and trying to encourage them to invest with a huge bag of money. Madam Secretary, an infamous statement from you was that the CRM is not a subsidy cannon, but it is. With the results we see the first CRM auction. ENGIE Electrabel would receive a grant of EUR 900 million for the two new gas plants, while the total investment cost for both plants according to ENGIE itself amounts to EUR 1 billion. This means that the CRM will cover almost all the investment costs for both gas plants. I mentioned this uncomfortable fact in committee, but no one responded to it. I also referred in committee to the parallels with the accelerated write-off of nuclear power plants in the 1990s. At the same time, the citizen was also responsible for speeding up the write-off of nuclear power plants, which allowed ENGIE Electrabel to make huge profits in the liberalisation of the electricity market with fully paid-off power plants. Now Vivaldi wants the citizen to pay for the investment again. The costs are for the consumer or the taxpayer, the profits are for ENGIE Electrabel. ENGIE Electrabel thus receives almost full reimbursement of its investments through grants and restarts with almost completely deprecated gas plants. All profits for the company, the profits are for the shareholders and the burdens for the community. Madam Minister, I was somewhat surprised, but in committee you reiterated my position. After all, you said that costs cannot be socialised and profits privatised, but that is exactly what the CRM is doing. The previous Liberal Chairman of the Energy Committee once said that the CRM serves to correct market failures. Your liberalised energy market is working so badly, except for the shareholders who fill their pockets generously, that you must, without delay, try to control the market somewhat. Liberalisation would, as it were, increase efficiency and lower prices. Anyone who would claim that today is said to be crazy, but that is what all of you here, the liberals, of course, but also the Christian Democrats and the Greens, announced at the time of liberalisation. The only thing that has reduced liberalisation is investment in our energy infrastructure and production capacity. Madam Secretary, your grant cannon must correct that for the umpteenth time. Furthermore, with this bill you want to grant the subsidies to another gas plant because ENGIE will almost certainly not have a licence for the planned gas plant in Vilvoorde by 15 March. As a result, you will grant further subsidies to gas plants and the CRM will be even more expensive. The next gas plant from the auction is by definition more expensive than Vilvoorde's. Now that Elia has published the report in preparation for the CRM auction of September 2022, the picture becomes very clear. The best thing that can happen to ENGIE Electrabel today is that her permit for Vilvoorde is effectively refused. In this way, she will be able to participate again in the next CRM auction with the Vilvoorde gas plant, for which the permit will probably be in order by September, and ask for more subsidies than last year. On the basis of the publicly available auction results, ENGIE is now much better able to estimate how much subsidies it can effectively charge, so how high it can set the price, to be sure of a grant contract. All this is made possible by Elia blowing up the proposed auction volume for 2026. Over the past few weeks, we have seen a remarkable spectacle. The CREG put its advice and proposal online and then immediately removed it. The CREG and Elia then stated that it was a working document, but the VRT acquired the reports and put them fully online. This clearly shows that these are final versions signed by the Management Committee. That our need for replacement capacity from 2025 to 2026 suddenly increases with more than 1 gigawatt is inexplicable. I'd like to know how you look at that, Madam Secretary. It certainly explains why ENGIE has not yet publicly opposed the termination of the grant contract for the gas plant in Vilvoorde, should it not be authorised as expected. After all, at the next CRM auction, they are simply going to bring in more subsidies. Colleagues, there is something fundamentally unfair about the CRM. It is, as has been said, a classic example of profits that are privatised while costs are collectiveised. Citizens are literally paying for the profits of multinationals, and that remains one of the main reasons why we oppose the CRM. However, there is another possibility, namely a government that itself invests in new renewable production capacity. It is what is referred to in the explanatory memorandum to this draft law as 'the development of new capacities'. You then write yourself in your explanatory statement: "From a substantive point of view, this provision could be a credible alternative." It is clear that this is a better and more efficient solution. In this way, the government takes control of itself and the profits also flow back to the government and the citizens. However, Madam Minister, you have never wanted to consider this solution and have actually made it impossible for yourself. After all, you did not include them in the discussions with the European Commission. Therefore, if you would like to do so now, you would once again ask the European Commission for authorisation in relation to the CRM mechanism. That is what you also write in the explanatory statement. However, massive public investment in renewable production capacity is just what we need. That is precisely what is taboo because of the liberalisation of the energy sector. We therefore believe that the CRM will put a huge brake on the energy transition, not only by creating a lock-in by building new gas plants, which will of course have to be written off at 20 years or more and therefore have to produce for so long, but also because of its technology neutrality. That is another requirement that follows from liberalisation and blind confidence in the market. This so-called technology neutrality will permanently invest in new fossil production or even in existing fossil capacity rather than focusing on sustainable technologies such as renewable energy, storage or demand management. Think of the aircraft engines in question. As far as we are concerned, the energy transition cannot be technologically neutral, which seems to me to be quite obvious. Today, in view of the climate crisis, we do not need gas plants or to subsidise already existing capacity that already ran without subsidies before the introduction of the CRM. That is an absurdity in itself. We do need massive investment in renewable energy production. Each euro for a gas or nuclear power plant does not go to the ecological transition. For us, the CRM is therefore unjust, inefficient, counter-productive and anti-energy transition. We shall therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u10	Madam President, on the present re-run law, Mrs Buyst's report contained all of our most important comments to the law. In short, I could say that if there are problems, they will be solved. That's mostly what this is about. There was indeed a smooth, fairly successful auction. There was also a problem. I have listened to Mr Wollants' long speech. Mr Wollants, you are right about one case. There was a problem with one file. You're saying one file didn't work out. That's your analysis. That was not the analysis of all the advisory bodies. According to them, the file was fine. Mrs Buyst mentioned that there were several positive opinions. That's not right. They were all positive advice. Nevertheless, the file did not satisfy your party mate. I have drawn my conclusions from this. Everyone does what they want with it. The most important thing I have learned from the discussion of this bill is that the decision is an expensive decision. After all, it ensures that we spend millions of euros a year more. That is the result of the decision. She was so fair to announce a year in advance. At the time when she did not have the application file, we actually knew what she would do. Then you said the auction was a gamble for you. You may never have gambled. You just didn't do anything. When I hear Mr Ravyts' long political analysis, that is an element that is correct. The previous government has done nothing to ensure that security of supply is in order after 2025. Mr Ravyts, as always I have not heard a solution in your political analysis. I haven't heard how you think it should be. When it comes to solutions, it seems that one should not be in the Flemish interest. This means that today we stand where we stand, with a security of supply on which there is indeed a number of uncertainties. I have just heard a number of parties here, including the N-VA and the Flemish Interest, explain that we really need to get rid of the dependence on Russian gas. It is good that you are putting that forward today. However, I would have hoped that you would have made that analysis much earlier and that you would have focused much earlier on what we really have independence in, namely investment in renewable energy, investment in storage and investment in demand management. That kind of thing makes it possible for us to get rid of gas and the nuclear. After all, Mr Wollants, pretending that these two old nuclear power stations are the solution is not correct either. First of all, they're not enough. Secondly, the uranium associated with it is also mainly from the Russian region. So your independence story isn't 100% correct either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u11	Mr Verduyckt, you mentioned me. Lately it has been happening more and more, including in the Congo Committee, that when I say things that are a little sensitive, I am accused of making a caricature of it or of not providing a solution. I have said clearly that there is a party in this hemisphere, and Mrs De Block must improve me if necessary, of which the chairman, who is also a Member of Parliament, claims to have a different slope. Why not combine the best of both worlds? We could try to convince the European Commission in the light of the changed circumstances. I literally said that. Nor do I think that Mrs Marghem and the MR Group, who have clearly opted for an extension of the youngest two nuclear power plants, are opposed to a CRM side. Your performances are caricature. It is not that there could be no solutions. I have heard your own chairman, Mr Rousseau, say that if we can prove that there is better affordability in scenario B, he will crack the door on that. That scenario B indeed goes together with a CRM. Unfortunately, we did not want this to happen, but it is true and we are realistic enough to know that. Your own chairman even ripped the door open. So don't challenge me, don't make a caricature of me. That won't be necessary. I am always nuanced and I have clearly asked what with the slope Lachaert in Vivaldi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u12	The new framework discussed today in the Flemish Parliament did not allow the construction of the plant in Vilvoorde. Moreover, not one minister has decided that alone. Deputation has also refused the authorisation and includes parties belonging to the opposition or majority. The same applies to the Flemish Government, which lays down the new standards for nitrogen. Even with the new standards, the Vilvoorde plant's file is not satisfactory. There is therefore a need for a new dossier, which we have set ourselves in terms of sustainability and the environment, and which is a little bit higher than what you want to lay down. For you, it is important that the nuclear power stations close down, and so the gas plants must be built and there must be absolutely no criticism of gas plants, because imagine that they do not fall below the bar! However, in terms of sustainability and the environment, we differ somewhat. It was argued earlier that nuclear power plants are not really sustainable. I can only observe that nuclear power plants, on a whole set of parameters, such as air, water, space and CO2 in comparative reports, score absolutely not so bad compared to hydropower stations and gas plants. You claim that the previous government has done nothing in terms of security of supply and renewable energy. That's kind of weird. After all, 1,500 megawatts of windmills have been added to the North Sea. Isn't that something? A framework was created for the realisation of 4 gigawatt offshore wind energy. Isn't that something? The Energy Transition Fund was set up, a fund which the Minister considers very important. Now she wants to take steps to preserve that Energy Transition Fund. We adopted a law on flexibility and storage in 2017. There was no vote against here in the hemisphere. Everyone apparently thought that was a very good step forward. If you do not like all of these things, then that raises questions, all the more so because you belong to a party which, by the way, has still opposed the CRM with me, as was the case here, because that did not work. At that time, your chairman announced that the CRM was a bad idea. Today you call it a very good idea. You are arguing today for the right number of gas plants, when you said that we do not need gas plants. A year earlier, your chairman thought we needed 5.1 gigawatts of new gas plants. You need to know a little bit about what you want. I understand, of course, that you are defending your case here and putting forward the energy policy of the Vivaldi coalition, but once in a while you need to know what happened here before you became a Member of Parliament. The government can count on the track record and on the shoulders of those who have done a lot here before.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u13	Mr Wollants, first of all, when I hear you like this, I really feel sorry for the Minister. In fact, you say that the consultative Flemish authorities are all fools and so they have to ignore their advice. I'm asking you to stay a little serious. Secondly, you say that we want to shut down nuclear power stations, but you should know better. We have tried to write together a government agreement with a different content. You announced that, not us. If we were to insist on nuclear power stations, we would probably never have signed that agreement. So your claim is bullshit. Just as you say here every week how important these two nuclear power stations are. However, as a member of a previous government, you failed to decide on this in an energy pact. I think that's weird. What you say about the CRM is true. We've never been a big fan of that. Today we are still cool lovers of that. What matters, however, is the goal, not the means. Just because previous governments have not taken decisions on this matter, we need to secure supplies today in 2025. This means that we must opt for these types of formulas. Mr Ravyts, it is indeed my opinion that you do not offer enough solutions. You say you do by saying you're in favour of the safety net. However, you have criticized this very strongly, and you say quite literally: we could try. Apparently that is your answer today to the people who are worried about security of supply. It's 2022 now. I shall repeat what my party chairman said about affordability. The affordability of the system from the start is a very important criterion in the file for Vooruit. That is what the coalition agreement says, by the way. It is one of the elements on which my party chairman has already put a very strong emphasis in the drafting of the coalition agreement. It seems to me no shame that he repeats that. For Forward, the CRM is not the target, but the means. It is the means to achieve sufficient clean energy, sufficient energy by 2025 and sufficiently affordable energy in a transition to a production market where renewable energy is completely central. That is the final objective, and that is where we must get. And we know that this intermediate step is necessary. The fact that the Minister is adapting to that legislation today, in order to solve problems, is nothing more than a normal and logical move. That's just good policy. We shall therefore support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u14	Madam President, my colleague Georges Dallemagne will not speak. Minister, since the opposition, we have almost always been constructive in supporting CRM auctions for the essential organization of the electricity market. In substance, the present situation is more than worrying. We will not support your energy policy bill, which is yours and that of the Vivaldi government. Since the formation of this government, it has been traversed by internal war wars around Plan A and Plan B. That is why we hope for a plan C that would be decided. I will return to the main lines that we are defending. In any case, the more things move forward, the more we worry about Belgium's security of supply and strategic energy vision. Of course, recourse to or refusal of permits to build gas-fired power plants was to be expected. The saga of Vilvorde's confirms this: you had neither developed nor anticipated an alternative in due course. This bill seems to be a response only to the Vilvoorde power station. Can you assure us that other production units that participated in the 2021 auction will not encounter these same pitfalls? To ask the question is to answer it: it is no. The municipalities of Manage and Seneffe have announced that they will go to the end to prevent the construction of the TGV power plant in Seneffe. The delay would then be dramatic for security of supply. It is not known whether or not the study of CREG has gone out voluntarily. Who benefits from this? This study indicates that more gas-fired power plants are needed to ensure supply. The situation would be even more worrying if this study were to be verified. The worst case scenario would then be the total collapse of your strategy, putting our country in the worst difficulties and at the mercy of energy producers who could then sell us their solutions at gold prices. The news is catching up with us. Not today. It's been weeks, it's been months, but even more so today, the current geopolitical situation is anything but reassuring. Your strategy, which focuses heavily on gas, may lead us to supply and price problems. You may say, in all languages, to all journalists, in front of all televisions, that Russian gas accounts for only 4% of our gas imports, it represents – and this is the figure to remember – 40% of European imports. Belgium is not an island lost in the middle of the European ocean, Madam Minister. It would be naive not to measure the impact that this situation may have. In the event of a reduction in the supply of gas by Russia, and this is the best scenario, the whole of Europe will be affected, including Belgium. If Russia partially or totally closes its gas, if Russia sells its gas to Europe at a gold price, then the price of gas will fly away. It is already very high, however, whether this gas comes from Russia, the Netherlands or Norway. So yes, the Russian problem will automatically affect the energy issue in Belgium. You have, of course, called on your French counterpart to convene a Council of European Ministers on this issue. You've communicated a lot on the networks. You are calling for a diversification of the sources of gas supply, but at the bottom, you are still seeing this issue through only one axis: gas, gas and gas. Today, we have no good scenario. You have to choose the least worse. In the current context, in the context of security of supply issues, on price and price issues, on the environmental issue with CO2 emissions, on the question of the potential negative impact of gas choice on the health of the citizens we are talking about so little, on the issue of dependence and, above all, on the objective of energy independence, we do not have 50,000 choices. It is, of course, to expand our sources of supply, as a matter of priority, renewable energy, and then, no doubt, a mix of gas and nuclear energy so that we can get out of it as quickly as possible. Of course I am talking about nuclear power for our current power plants. Your bill, the minister, is not such a thing as to reassure us because this bill is more CO2 emissions. This is more of a negative impact on the health of citizens. It's more of a supply insecurity. These are more major risks of higher prices. It is more energy dependency, including for non-European countries. For all these reasons, we will not support your bill. You will probably repeat that the date is 18 March 2022. This makes it times when you have postponed decisions that are urgent and crucial! Meanwhile, this climate is terribly negative for potential investors. Legal uncertainty and all our energy issues are only deteriorating and worsening every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u15	Madam President, I will try not to quote anyone, as everyone will be happy and we will avoid debates in the debate, trying to remain factual. First of all, today we are in a very serious geopolitical situation in which the citizens of the world are confronted with an invasion and armed conflict. But this conflict, however dramatic it may be, will also have economic consequences at home, even if it happens relatively far away. Indeed, today, when markets were opened, the gas molecule had made an additional jump to the 30% increase. We are in the context of the discussion of a catch-up text, a law to repair a supporting law. It is therefore intended to subsidise, by the contributing force of a state budget, and therefore of all the citizens of this country, the power stations which are intended to attract thanks to these subsidies. Their objective is to ensure security of supply in the first place. I would even say that this is the only objective of this support mechanism: to ensure security of supply. It must be technologically neutral, but, as the previous speaker and others have said before it, it is highly focused on the gas molecule. In the current circumstances, this becomes complicated and exacerbates the perception or feeling of uncertainty that we face in a catch-up environment like this. Indeed, the first text did not work because, surprisingly, it did not provide as a precondition for the selection of projects that had obtained a permit blank from any administrative remedy. Of course, one can never exclude an appeal to the Council of State. This applies to all projects. We can take that risk if he's the only one. But now we've taken a lot more risks from the first project. The difficulties soon arose because of an already very fair capacity calculation which, still today, is called into question by all the pataquès of the report of the CREG, which finds on the basis of the documents of Elias that for 2026-2027... We are talking today about a text which must be valid for at least 15 years and which must allow our Belgium during this period to ensure security of supply. The CREG notes, on the basis of Elia's documents, that for 2026-2027 it will require new capacity. We are talking about a text that must be valid for at least 15 years to ensure the security of supply of Belgium. This pataquès from the published report, removed by we do not know who, nor why, says anything we have known for a long time, namely that if some here want to use the text of the CRM to get out of the nuclear completely, it will take 4 gigawatts of new power. I come back to the fact that the first basic text, which showed all its limits and its fragility quite quickly, provided, in terms of new power, only 2.3 gigawatts, in other words almost twice as much as 4 gigawatts. So that's not enough. Obviously, a catch-up text had to be drawn up. And now, when we analyse this one, knowing that we are in a corset limited by the notification to Europe, according to which we have to make two auctions (one in T-4 and one in T-1) and that these auctions are marked by certain criteria, we find that we have added a new small text, a new small catch-up auction because the volume calculated for the first auction, which was already very small and which was below what is necessary, is still impoverished by the pataquès - still one - of Vilvorde and its plant which will not have a permit. Because of this, this new small text is assigned at least three levels. First, it will lead to inequality of project offerers, which is quite contrary to the equality contained in our Constitution and to the equality that must be respected as a fundamental value in the markets. Indeed, only those who were selected during the previous auction will be able, if they can show that they have a permit, to offer a project or capacity in CRM bis. This means that those who have not been selected may forget to propose something when they may be able to do so today, unlike last November. This inequality can be declined in several degrees, but it manifests itself everywhere and is a source of fragility, because those who consider themselves in this situation of inequality will, on the basis of the Constitution, be able to seize the authorities which will enable them to criticize and correct this inequality. As a result, the CRM bis process will be upset or even stopped. Secondly, there is the issue of premature termination of a contract. The idea is that CRM bis allows the legislator to require Elia to break the contract with ENGIE for the Vilvorde power plant. In addition, this rupture would take place at an absolutely early stage. And we are not sure that it is taking place on grounds of general interest. Even if one could prove this, in order to give way to another capacity with a permit, it is not certain that an appeal for compensation from Engie can be avoided. The latter would be entitled to claim one. To date, however, we have no guarantee that it will not do so. This will, of course, increase the financial burden already placed on the heavily burdened shoulders of the State budget. Thirdly, the last problem that weakens this process bis is European notification. During the debate in committee, I had suggested that a suspensive condition for the European Union to notify and validate the CRM bis process should be included in the text. This has not been answered favourably, so that the Union which is examining all this could very well consider, following complaints from either of them, that this project does not correspond to the design it has validated. I am sure that by bringing these three orders of consideration together, I probably did not reach a perfect completeness. There are probably some details that will be highlighted by either. But I think that, when we want to develop a plan for the future, we try at least to anticipate the difficulties, which are not too complicated to anticipate for people who know the case; and above all, when we are a lawyer and can imagine moving forward the pitfalls that must be avoided in order for the process to come to an end and achieve the desired result. Today, we are going - I am not saying it, it is the economist Bruno Colmant - in the face of an immeasurable energy crisis, which will last for months. We have concerns about CO2 emissions, against which we must fight drastically and globally. And a fossil produces CO2 at combustion. But it is essentially the heart, the motor of CRM. We also have a problem of energy independence, because even if Russian gas is delivered for 40% of what Europe needs, this inevitably affects our country. And so, the real problem is that we must seek to diversify energy sources, not just to diversify gas supplies. Diversifying energy sources obviously means looking at the government agreement with the insight desired. It is to accept that reality is no longer the same as it was six months ago. That is, of course, what I have been advocating for many weeks and many months, as colleagues know, to extend at least the two most recent nuclear power plants. Madam President, my group, which is a majority, will support the text of CRM bis. But I am here, in full agreement with my group, and I have on several occasions decided not to take part, through a vote, in one direction or another, in the conclusion of the work on CRM and CRM bis. Today, even if I remain fair, I can't do better than to abstain. And this abstention, which does not correspond to my character, corresponds to my desire to remain collective, to work with my group, to work with all colleagues and to present a point of view that must be heard because it is a serious, well-founded, modest point of view that will generate in the very near future, if it is not heard, a difficulty for many years. I would therefore like it to be understood, through this abstention, that in our group, in the MR, we are extremely worried, extremely attentive as a result of the events, and that we continue to think that the essential thing for our country is to ensure that we maintain a minimum of energy independence through the diversification of energy sources, that we continue to honour our commitments to combat CO2, and that we do something good for the citizens of this country and, above all, for the household portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft before us is indeed important, because it concerns the security of supply of the country, which we must guarantee in any case, in all scenarios. I will use the metaphor of one of the speakers: no matter which eel is to be prepared, this recipe is always needed. Different scenarios have been discussed here, but whatever the scenario, replacement capacity is always required. If we have to worry about this draft today, it is about the security of investment in our country. Many speakers have referred to the reason why this draft has been tabled. This was because a capacity selected after the auction of the CRM was refused a licence. That was the reason for some of the speakers in the debate to say that I may have to do something else for you. Let us look at this from the point of view of investment security and permits. Are we sure that if we kept 2 gigawatts in the mix, according to the hypothesis of a number of speakers, we would have less problems with the permit? Let us take a look at the history of nuclear exploitation. There has been a draft law in the past which has led to a lifetime extension of two nuclear power plants in this country. That bill was challenged before the Constitutional Court and it was also destroyed. This year we will have to give our opinion on repairing it. That is not the only point, however. In the nuclear field, too, there are several steps to be taken and authorisations to be given, for example by the national safety authority. For a plant to be effectively restarted, there must be FANC approval. If we look at the past, at the fracturing plants, we see that the FANC's approval for the Council of State was also challenged. I am not giving this example to distinguish between one plan or another, but rather to give a broader and more general consideration. When it comes to energy, we need a lot of investment in this country over the next ten years. What happened last night and this morning, with the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, is putting our noses on the facts. We must work on our independence, as has been said here by a number of speakers. This morning, at the presentation of the World Energy Outlook 2021, this was also said by Fatih Birol, President of the International Energy Agency. In other words, we need investment, not only in Europe but also in our own countries, for example in the wind on land and at sea, but also in our hydrogen infrastructure, for which we are releasing funds in the context of the relaunch plan. Over the next ten years, it will be crucial, among other things, to meet our climate objectives. In this respect, we in our country need to reflect on how to create an investment framework in which companies and private individuals want to invest, without having to take legislative initiatives every time because of the licensing issue. This must not only be done at federal level, we must do so together with the Regions and perhaps with other stakeholders who want to invest in this country. That is a problem that is broader than the draft law before us today, but which may have major consequences. Let's also look at the opposite. If we succeed in creating that legal certainty framework, if we can create investment security, then we will create prosperity in our country. Energy has always been a catalyst of prosperity. Think of the period after the Second World War, when we rebuilt our country and our ports, motorways and ring-roads arrived. The second largest petrochemical cluster in the world has arrived in Antwerp. Energy has always brought us prosperity. That is why we need to create a sound investment framework. We certainly need to work on that in this country. I would also like to make a number of punctual comments. It has been said here that the current government's policy would be un seul axe, le gaz. This is not correct. All you have to do is look at the facts to find out. I'll mention three of them. The first is that this government has decided to triple wind capacity in the North Sea. It's not just a decision or an announcement, it's followed by clear actions. Today, we are working in particular on the mechanism of tending to ensure that wind turbines are born in 2027-2028 to be fully operational in 2030. The second is the hydrogen strategy that was released in October. This is being implemented, among other things, by MoUs that were signed with Oman, Namibia and, again yesterday, with Norway. Perhaps the third fact is the one I should have mentioned first because it concerns CRM itself. In the design within CRM, we have done everything possible to limit the capacity of the gas. With some lightness, I could say that I am actually the minister who eliminated the gas plants. In the past, some parties or people have said in this House that there is a need for about ten gas-fired power stations. Of the auctions, only two gas plant projects were selected. Why? It is, among other things, thanks to the fact that in Parliament, in the Committee on Energy, which has always worked very constructively on this issue, parameters have been established which, in particular, favour everything that is battery capacity. As a result, cleaner technologies are more likely to succeed. In addition, a sustainability clause was included in the CRM. All those selected for the construction of a new gas capacity will be required to become carbon neutral. It wasn't a necessity. It wasn't even an obligation. In the State aid case, this is not a parameter. But to be quite consistent and consistent, we wanted to work in connection with the Green Deal and the goal of climate neutrality by 2050. That's why we included him. So it is not an entry 'in' the gas, it is an exit 'out' the gas. I would also like to draw attention to energy independence. I fully agree with everything that has been said on this subject, especially in connection with what happened this morning in Ukraine. In fact, we are dependent on Russia for three things: gas, oil and uranium. Working on our energy independence means that we need to work on these three vectors. The future will be renewable! As Mr Verduyckt said, it is not the means but the goal that counts. And that goal is to guarantee security of supply at a low price. Affordability is essential. In this file no decision can be made without affordability in one state. We always have. We have introduced the energy standard and there is a whole package of measures for the affordability of the invoice. In all my dossiers, and therefore in this too, these three objectives are achieved together: security of supply, affordability and sustainability. Madam President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u17	Madam Minister, you will not be surprised that we are making a simple observation, and we have been able to support that finding for a few weeks. I have talked about Egbert Lachaert, who has been wanting to be a bit of a lookalike by Georges-Louis Bouchez over the past few weeks and who has sent all kinds of slopes into the world. Then there is the Marghem dossier, the position of Marie-Christine Marghem, who has not taken part in the committee twice, Mr Laaouej, in the vote and who will participate today, but will abstain. I can only say that there are two important moments ahead, March 15th and March 18th. Mr De Wever knows this better than I do, but in Roman antiquity the ids of March are dangerous moments. You know that at that time even someone was murdered in 44 BC, a well-known figure in these parts. I hope you will be better off than the person who hasn't lived in the world for more than 2,000 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u18	Madam President, Madam Minister, I take note of what you have said here. However, I cannot get rid of the impression that, given what is happening in the CRM and what is happening in the area of new capacity, at least in the past auction which has been very exalted and, if I understand correctly, in the predictions of the CREG, there is a very large package of new gas plants in the CRM. From the outset, I believe that in the last auction 1,634 megawatts of new capacity were committed. You're saying it's not just about gas. You're right about that. After all, it was only 1,600 megawatts of new capacity. So we have more than 90% gas in that story. Perhaps that is different in the next auction, but at least not on the basis of the present bill. In fact, the draft law aims to replace one gas power station with another gas power station. So there will not be much change in that regard. You say that the government has applied sustainability criteria to these criteria and has registered them. That's right. It is stipulated that those plants which will be subsidised until 2040 will no longer be allowed to produce CO2 by 2050 at the latest. That's about the life of those power stations. So if they just close when they are end of life, they meet the sustainability criteria. I don't know if that's such a huge step forward. I wonder if gas plants will keep going until 2040 or 2041 if two more gas plants will be added to the next auction, the big 'we-get-out-of-the-gas story'. However, we shall wait and see what comes. You also claim to be the minister who stopped as many gas plants as possible. There are two things to say about this. Firstly, that has something to do with a difficult amendment from the previous legislature, which you have retained, so you agreed that you prohibit auctioning a certain capacity that is less than 200 hours. That has indeed already caused a serious sip on the drink. If the CREG is right and 2 more gas plants are added, you can still say that you are only on 4. However, in previous legislatures gas plants of 450 megawatts were counted and are now included in the 870 megawatt gas plants. Indeed, you have been able to halve the number of gas plants, which is fantastic, but in practice it doesn't make much difference. In this respect, I am particularly interested in the additional initiatives you will take to ensure that the market becomes less fossil. I don't have the impression this is happening. It is also said that Russia's dependence on uranium is also important. I have to say that you said in committee a few months ago that we have a very good strategy for the supply of uranium in this country, because it is very diverse. Unfortunately, we cannot say that about gas. We also know, of course, that the amount of uranium needed to produce electricity is small. To produce 100 megawatts of electricity, we need 400 grams of uranium. Depending on how performant the installation is, between 20,000 and 25,000 cubic more natural gas are needed. That's a difference. You said that our security of supply in the field of uranium is no problem until 2025. I think you're right, because we're handling that in a good way. This is a bit more difficult for gas plants, because of course it requires a lot and much more of it, and that of course gives a very large cost in the production of electricity. Do you know how much the uranium cost is for a megawattage current? Half a cent per kilowatt hour. For natural gas, that's a multiple. The question is whether you can compare the two. I understand, as the Prime Minister said a moment ago, that all developments will be taken into account. I'm really looking forward to that. I think it is necessary to take that step. I also note that you say that an extension of nuclear power stations is not so easy either. That is one of the reasons why we have warned you that postponing that story over and over is a problem. You said in the ruling in the European Parliament: it is possible. The Prime Minister said: we have calculated this, we have made a backtiming and it shows that all this can be done perfectly. You're saying something different here today. That's a coincidence or not, depending on what your actual plan is. We'll see what happens in March, what the government decides and where you come from. You say that investing in four large gas plants is a huge step forward for our energy supply, but I think there are also major risks involved. In any case, we will keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u19	Madam Secretary, every day you get wrong from many scientists and you suffer from numerous scientific reports. The employers are concerned about security of supply, even the former Energy Minister, Mrs Marghem, member of a party that is part of your government. I have heard Mrs Marghem here today give some valid arguments expressing concerns, concerns that we have already expressed in committee. But you act like you haven't heard it, Mrs. Van der Straeten. You didn't really go into the substance of it. So I can only say that you do not dare to engage seriously in the debate, even in your own government. When the majority parties are talking, you laugh with colleagues. If I were in your seat, I'd be dead serious. Moreover, I have to say that you have not even properly investigated the infamous plan B, on which so many words have been said here over the past few months and years. The discussions in committee for the first and second readings, and even today, teach me that there is no consensus in the government on the core exit, in order to prove the different voting behaviour. Madam Secretary, you are pointing out the cracks in the nuclear reactors and they are apparently always getting bigger. There are cracks, but there are cracks in your government as far as the energy file is concerned. You have a problem, Mrs Van der Straeten, and you don't realize it. There is the problem of security of supply; you have a problem of dogmatism, and you cannot seem to convince all parties in your government of your solutions to guarantee energy supply in the future. One thing you want with the Greens. You want to finish what Agalev started in 2003, at the expense of the people, at the expense of the affordability of energy, and that is the closure of all nuclear power stations. That plume would like to put you on your hat in a few years. You said that not the means, but the purpose counts. But the objective is not affordability at all. The objective is the closure of nuclear power stations. I can only say and welcome the fact that some members of the government are using their common sense and dare to oppose the green dogmatic policy that this country is holding hostage by shutting down the two youngest nuclear power stations in 2025. In 2003, the policy was ill-considered and irresponsible. Today, I have to say that this policy is being maintained. I do not have too many illusions about the outcome on 18 March. After all, you're not listening. I have said this so many times, even in October, when we first discussed the budget and later the policy papers. You just put your blinders on and even put valid arguments right next to you. Who is the victim of that policy? That will be the citizen who will have to pay his energy bill at the end of the month. It's very unfortunate that he appears to be in the last place, because it preys on dogma.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u20	Madam President, it is pleased that Parliament, which sits in its chamber, has the last word because, after we have just heard, it is important to respond. What did the minister do in her plea for her Vision? It began by disqualifying the nuclear power plants it abhors and for which it obviously does not want to refer to the very clear injunctions of the situation in reality and of the government agreement. It is, however, a bit special to compare the youngest nuclear power plants - although it has signed this government agreement - with the nuclear power plants which suffer from inclusion with hydrogen but which have still been restarted in this country, with those of Doel 1 and Doel 2 whose investigation is complete and which will continue to produce until 2025, while they produce after the date of cessation which was provided for in the 2003 law but which were able to continue to operate because a law of extension had been passed, without any problem. This shows us that, indeed, when we ask in committee whether we are moving forward on Plan B (whatever we call it) and whether the legal framework for the extension of the most recent nuclear power plants is envisaged and whether contacts with ENGIE are made, we receive a reply of silence. It is not even an answer that would be to kick in or find one or the other formula elegantly to say: "You know. We're working on it. We're thinking about it, and so on." Nothing! It was also said that the minister would have installed the least gas-fired power plants by making a misleading comparison with the previous government's project. The previous government was based on Elia's famous studies which referred to a new capacity requirement of 3.6 GW, as Mr Wollants pointed out, and 3.6 GW is almost four, but it is by chance four large 900 MW gas-fired power plants. Why did the previous government imagine six or seven gas-fired power plants? Because they were small plants from 400 to 500 MW. It's interesting to make small games of words, small transfers, small slides to "make believe that". Today's incident has been particularly clear. We can take the problem as we want, we can use CRM in a vision dedicated to all kinds of energies, even if they are polluting – anything but nuclear! – or you can have a reasonable vision like that expressed by many colleagues in a very moderate way. They are not fooled when they say that we need to diversify our energy sources, with a safe, reliable, pilotable capacity, which produces little CO2 but a lot of electricity economically, namely the last two nuclear power plants. Even if they are not enough, at least we remain in the government agreement. Well, no! That's not what we hear. It is understood that these are gas power plants, much more moderately installed in the territory than in the vision of the previous government – my eye! –, which are supposed to ensure the capacity and guarantee of supply in this country. I draw your attention to the fact that you don't have to play with people's feet. You can't think of them as stupid. Everyone is able to understand what we need today to ensure security of supply. Everyone is able to understand that the gas that burns produces CO2. Everyone is able to understand by looking at his bill that the more gas we go, the more impeccable energy bills we get. If we don't listen to that message, I think we're going to face great difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u21	Madam Minister, I will not have the same vocabulary – "My eye", "Play with the feet", to quote only two – but, if I want to speak again, it is because some things have challenged me. In substance, there is agreement on at least one essential issue, which is central, and it is already good, that indeed, on renewables, we must do everything possible to develop it as far as possible. That's a part of it. After that, the big question – and CRM is part of it – is what we're putting in to complete the renewable, because it's not overnight that we're going to be able to take on our 100% electricity production with the renewable. Your plan, your vision is the one we know, namely the famous plan A. If I take the floor now after you, it is because I found that the way you transformed the mix "renewable + gas gas", which is actually Plan A of the Vivaldi government, in what you call a "gas outlet", is a pretty pirouette – or should I rather say an attempt at pirouette. Let us acknowledge that this is obviously only com'. The reality, the facts have their rights. We're going to meet again on March 18th. It is still impressive to hear you and it is, moreover, interesting. It's not the first time, it's the umpteenth time. We also read each other in the press. It is therefore impressive to see how this government agreement can be interpreted with a diametrically opposite vision depending on the parties that signed it. A year has passed, but I would like to know who has been instructed by each party to negotiate the energy side and to ask the negotiators how they have misled themselves to this point as to the meaning of the agreement. In short, the next meeting is scheduled for March 18. I want to tell you, Madam Minister, that you can't wait any longer. I want to talk about you and the Vivaldi, because it's nothing personal. What strikes me the most is the way in which you remain in a form of political inter-self in this matter, which is, however, eminently scientific. I want to ask you to put science and rigour in this dossier, in the way of addressing the issues and charting the way for the future. It is not a question of imposing a dogmatic conception. On the contrary, a scientific vision and rigour should allow Belgium to form the worst possible choice in order to solve a difficult equation, but the combination of which rests on four pillars: price control, which you promised in the government agreement – and we are far from it –; the guarantee of supply; the preservation of the environment and health; and energy independence as wide as possible. On March 18, it is from these four pillars that we will assess the government's decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u22	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u23	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2466/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2466/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u24	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u25	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Frank Toventors, Ortwin Depoostere, Barbara Pas. The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (293/2) The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2393/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, violence and crime are phenomena that can be found throughout our society. That's been the case forever, ever since the birds went on foot. Perhaps you know that my party, the Flemish Interest, is a champion of a tough approach for perpetrators of criminal offences. The safety of our citizens, of our people, is essential, wherever it is, also within the rail system. There is no denying and even less accepting the fact that we have been faced for a long time with more and more facts of sexual and other harassment, vandalism, black-driving, verbal and physical aggression, unacceptable facts directed against both rail passengers and SNCB staff. Again and again, the Flemish interest in Parliament goes to the alarm bell, but again and again policy-makers flee into verbal condemnations and feigned indignation, and then move on to the order of the day and look further away from the problem. On the basis of numerous parliamentary questions and discussions in the field, I have therefore tried to identify the problems of rail crime and to propose practical solutions in stages. The resolution now before us focuses on manpower, staff, and adequate training. These two concerns were put forward as a priority by SNCB's own staff. I regret that our motion for a resolution, on which no one made any substantive remarks, was voted away without any scruples by the majority parties. It's incomprehensible and disgusting. I find it completely disrespectful that Members of this House, who express their sympathy with victims of intimidation or other forms of crime here or in the media, pose as so-called combatants of violence in the rail sector, but a solid proposal by the Flemish interest that meets the aspirations of the Securail staff simply vote away. All this happens only one week after our media were rightly turned upside down when a young student became the victim of sexual harassment on the train and after several other female victims gathered their courage to share similar testimonies in the media. You must have the courage to vote on the content of our resolution. For me, this makes it all the more clear why our people's faith in politics in your politics, the politics of the classical parties of power, has reached a low point. The vote on this resolution is therefore a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u27	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u28	In accordance with the proposal submitted to the Conference of Presidents on 16 February 2022, I propose that a special committee be set up to evaluate legislation and policy on trafficking and trafficking in human beings (art. 21(2), Rgt). In accordance with the proposal submitted to the Conference of Presidents of 16 February 2022, I propose that you proceed to the creation of the special committee responsible for evaluating the legislation and policies on trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings (art. 21, second paragraph, Rgt). This special commission shall be responsible for: 1 to take stock of the current situation in the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings in our country; [[To assess the legal provisions aimed at prosecuting traffickers and smugglers of human beings, dismantling criminal networks and protecting victims;]] 3rd to examine international cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings; 4°d to pay particular attention to the plight of minors and other vulnerable profiles in this assessment; 5) to table a report whose conclusions and possible recommendations will, after a debate in plenary, be put to the vote after debate in plenary within eight months of the establishment of the committee. The special committee shall be responsible for: 1° take stock of the current situation of the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings in our country; 2°the legal provisions for the prosecution of traffickers and smugglers of human beings, the dismantling of criminal networks and the protection of victims; to investigate international cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings; 4° in this evaluation, pay particular attention to the fate of minors and other vulnerable profiles; To submit a report, the conclusions and any recommendations of which shall be put to the vote after a debate in plenary within eight months of the establishment of the committee. The Commission shall hear the persons and request such documents as it deems necessary. It may call on experts. The committee shall hear the persons from whom it considers that they should be heard and shall request the documents it deems necessary. It may call upon experts. In this context, the Commission pays particular attention to the work of the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Combating Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings. In doing so, the Committee pays particular attention to the work of the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell to combat human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. The Commission shall lay down all other rules relating to its operation which are not provided for in this text, without prejudice to the Rules of the House of Representatives. The committee itself lays down all the other rules relating to its operation which this text does not provide for and will ensure that they comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. The meetings of the committee shall in principle be public. The Commission may, on its own initiative or at the request of the invited persons, decide to use the closed doors. The meetings of the committee shall in principle be public. The committee may decide, on its own initiative or at the request of the invited persons, to meet in camera. I propose that the special committee be composed of 13 effective members and as many alternates, appointed by the House of Representatives from among its members, in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups. The terms of reference of the Commission shall be as follows: I propose that the special committee be composed of 13 permanent members and as many alternates as the Chamber of Representatives of its members appoints according to the rule of proportional representation of the political groups. The mandates within the committee will be allocated as follows: The following names were communicated by the presidents of the political groups: The following names were communicated by the chairmen of the political groups:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u29	N-VA: - effectifs/permanent members (2): Sophie De Wit, Darya Safai - supplies/replacements (2): Theo Francken, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh Ecolo-Green: - effectifs/permanent members (2): Gilles Vanden Burre, Wouter De Vriendt - supplies/replacements (2): Eva Platteau, Simon Moutquin PS: - effectifs/permanent members (2): Khalil Aouasti, Hervé Rigot - alternates/plaatsvervangers (2): Chanelle Bonaventure, Sophie Thémont VB: - effectifs/permanent members (2): Katleen Bury, Dries Van Langenhove - suppliers/alternates (2): Marijke Dillen, Ortwin Depootere MR: - effectif/fixed member (1): Nathalie Gilson - supplyant / alternate (1): (...) CD&V: - effectif/fixed member (1): Els Van Hoof - supply/replacement (1): Koen Geens PVDA-PTB: - effectif/fixed member (1): Greet Daems - supply/replacement (1): Nabil Boukili Open Vld: - effectif/fixed member (1): Katja Gabriels - supplier/replacer (1): Tim Vandenput Come on, let's go. - effectif/fixed member (1): Ben Segers - suppleant/substitute (1): Anja Vanrobaeys The other political groups may each appoint a member who will participate without the right to vote in the work of the special committee. The other political groups may each appoint one member who participates in the work of the special committee without the right to vote. The following name was communicated by the president of the political group: The following name was announced by the President of the political group:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u30	cdH (1): Vanessa Matz DéFI (1): François De Smet Since the number of candidates corresponds to the number of places to be filled, I declare the candidates nominated elected pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of applications corresponds to the number of places to go, I declare the candidates elected in accordance with Article 157. 6, of the Rules of Procedure. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u31	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 3 June 2021, the Special Joint Parliamentary Committee for the Evaluation of State Reforms since 1970 has been established. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 3 June 2021, the Special Joint Parliamentary Committee Chamber-Senaat has been in charge of evaluating state reforms since 1970. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 23 December 2021, the mandate of the Joint Committee was extended until 28 February 2022. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 December 2021, the mandate of the Joint Committee was extended until 28 February 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 February 2022, I propose to extend its term of office until 2 April 2022, on the understanding that the final report can only be approved after the Easter holidays. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 February 2022, I propose that the mandate be extended until 2 April 2022, provided that the final report can only be adopted after the Easter holiday. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u32	We must postpone the counting of these ballots to the plenary session on 10 March 2022. We should postpone the inclusion of these votes to the plenary session of 10 March 2022. Members may vote until Thursday, 10 March 2022, at 4 p.m., the week of 25 February except. Parliamentary documents are available to them in the General Secretariat. Members may vote until Thursday 10 March 2022 at 4 p.m., with the exception of 28 February. Parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that: - only members may vote; - the parliamentary document with the proposed naturalization law cannot be signed and must be deposited in the ballot box; - if the member does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant, the name of the applicant shall be deleted from the list given to him; - the ballot box will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 10 March 2022. I would remind you that: - only members may take part in the vote, - the parliamentary document containing the proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed and placed in the ballot box; - where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list supplied to him; - the urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 10 March 2022. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u33	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 February 2022, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: - the bill (Mr Nabil Boukili, Mrs Greet Daems and Messrs. Marco Van Hees and Gaby Colebunders) abolishing the Information Security Committee, No. 2230/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 February 2022, I propose that the following legislative proposal be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: - the bill (Mr Nabil Boukili, Mrs Greet Daems and Mr Marco Van Hees and Mr Gaby Colebunders) abolishing the Information Security Committee, No. 2230/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Justice Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Justice Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u34	Madam Minister, I am well aware that it is not self-evident that I am here at this hour to talk about the possible presence of bogus self-employed persons at a subsidiary of bpost. Europe today is faced with a dictator invading another European country. However, it is important that we can have this debate. We also often talk here about the timetable of SNCB or the medical quotas. According to many, these are petty things, especially when compared to the situation in Ukraine. I'm aware of that. However, it's just those petty things that show what's important. For us, it is obvious that we can talk about these matters here. We do not always realize how good our lives are, whether the trains are on time or not, and whether there are too many doctors or too few. We must defend this way of life, peace in a democracy, so that we can effectively deal with such matters and not with war, not with the question of whether we will see our children tonight. That is a first important point. Secondly, whether the government should respect the rights or whether it should be able to place itself above them. In Russia, the rulers are above the state. Fortunately, that is not the case with us. Which brings me to my question to you. It's about Ubiway's newspaper stores, which you're about to get rid of. On Monday, the sale is final. Then there's the closing and the 175 newspaper stores move to Golden Palace. I have done some research on these shops over the last few days and have spoken to some of the entrepreneurs and asked them if they are prepared to do so. Very soon, however, I noticed that something is not right in the story. If you look at most people who work there, at the hours they work, at the status with which they work and at what they are allowed to do and what they do not do, it is clear that they are self-employed, but it turns out they are self-employed. There's a word for that. They're bogus self-employed. I have also raised my light with a number of workers' economists and even with UNIZO's legal service. The difference between a self-employed person and an employee is very clear, there must be a relationship of power and there must be independence. There aren't any. The Press Shops are and remain owned by Ubiway, both the property and the entire stock. The person who is allowed to work there has nothing to say as a self-employed person. I have been self-employed and I know that as a self-employed person one can choose what one wants to sell in his shop. However, the Press Shops are not their own shops and they are not allowed to sell any other business there. Ubiway's actually proud of that, too. They say on their website that they can work for them, but that they only hire the self-employed. If one is not self-employed, Ubiway can help with the whole journey, business plan and so on. Moreover, we must not invest anything. It's on Ubiway's website. Everything I'm telling you today is out on their website. No financial investment is needed to work as a self-employed person in Ubiway's stores. One arrives as a self-employed person and no financial input is needed. Come on, it's very clear that this is not about self-employed people. One should not take any chances. One has to apply first. Have you ever seen an independent interview before? One has to send one's résumé and have a conversation. If it's okay, you can come for a second conversation and then you can start, not in your own store but in Ubiway's store. If one feels after a month that it is not such a nice environment, one can ask Ubiway to be transferred to another store. Come on. One is self-employed, one must be able to decide for oneself what one does. For example, there are many other examples that show that these people actually have nothing to say: not about the hours they have to start, not about the days they have to be there, not about what they have to or can sell. Those people also don't make invoices, unless one invoice at the end of the month to Ubiway, but they don't buy anything. One is an independent seller, but one does not buy anything. Now explain that to me. Everyone knows that as a self-employed person one can share in profits, or in losses, but not in Ubiway. If it is a fantastic year because one has sold a lot because, for example, one has been able to buy a very cheap product, such as birthday tickets, and a nice profit made on the sale, then that self-employed person sees nothing of it. He doesn't share in profits and he doesn't run any financial risk. All the experts I have spoken to tell me that this is a flagrant case of bogus self-employment. The question is whether the government was aware that the whole system was rambling on all sides, that the only way to make a profit here was by working with bogus self-employed people. If one works with false self-employed people, then one cheats on the RSZ and the social cash does not get what one should get. Then it's the hardworking self-employed who don't get what they're supposed to get. I asked the manager of the Press Shop in Hoboken yesterday what he does when he's sick. Sick leave? No, not at all. He has to come to work. He's supposed to be self-employed. They therefore receive no sick leave, no pension such as a normal employed person. The pension of self-employed persons is much lower. How many hours does someone do that? Ubiway's website says that it is possible to do 70 hours a week, from 7 in the morning to 7 in the evening, 6 or 7 days a week. In my view, that is a true hold-up of our social security and our social security funds, which have seen millions of people leave here for years in a different way. Madam Secretary, were you aware that those shops were not actually acting correctly? If you didn't know, you know now. Are you prepared to have some tests carried out? Are you prepared to allow the Administrative Commission on Employment to carry out an investigation into the matter, as is also the case in my motion for a recommendation? Are you prepared, if it turns out that this is false self-employment, to compensate for all the income lost, i.e. income in respect of the State and the State Treasury, but also in respect of the damaged owners? Can you promise that no deal has been made with the devil, Golden Palace, who, like the government, for five years, when she owned the Press Shops, turned a blind eye and didn't make it difficult? What's the deal with Golden Palace? Has that also been agreed that it is not a problem and that when Golden Palace buys the shops, will not be watched very severely? On the contrary, do you explain to me today that you will? In that case, the question is no longer yours, because next week it will no longer be yours, because then it will be Social Affairs, because the shops have been sold. Madam Secretary, has your government made any promises to Golden Palace in this matter? I hope not. Can you assure me today that you will check this thoroughly? After all, if Ubiway has gone wrong, Ubiway remains wrong. Only the shares change ownership. I think it is very important that you watch it. We haven't been able to stop the deal with Golden Palace, to the regret of everyone here. Everyone here was sorry. There is now another chance: faced with a new material fact that the new stores may be in breach of social legislation, Golden Palace could opt to step out of the deal itself. That'd be great. Will you therefore do everything in the two or three days that remain, including the weekend, to clarify the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u35	Mr Freilich, I am very concerned about the protection of the social rights of workers and self-employed persons and I am very pleased that you wish to join the fight on this issue. You said you did some research. You have looked at the website of Ubiway Retail. You could have discovered a number of other elements in your research that would have answered your question. How do I like to share that information? Actually, your question is about the different models in the retail trade. The model used by Ubiway Retail is called the commissionary model, based on a commission system. This is a choice that Ubiway Retail can make autonomous as a company operating in the free market. I think that free market is also dear to you. The choice of such a formula is often motivated by the nature of the products or services. There are many other examples of companies and sectors using that model. I can give you more detailed information on this on occasion. This often concerns the return duties, the nature of the assortment, the value, the rotation of stocks. For all these reasons, chains like Ubiway Retail have chosen that formula. You ask whether, under certain circumstances, the commissioning formula, the partnership formula, should not be regarded as an employment relationship, in accordance with the general criteria laid down in Article 333 of the programme law defining employment relations. That article allows labour law banks to determine in disputes whether a particular employee is an employee or a self-employed person, for example in the platform economy. We have discussed this recently, and there are also court rulings on this. Ubiway Retail's business contract is based on the following elements: investment in the shop equipment. This is what the company -, the rent and the stock. On the other hand, the entrepreneur is responsible for the management of the stock and any differences in that stock. The entrepreneur is also reimbursed on the basis of a variable commission on turnover. You mentioned an amount, but the committee is actually dependent. The rates may vary by product category. Sales prices shall be determined by the company. The entrepreneur organises his work independently. He's free to do that. That is an important element in these general criteria. The entrepreneur must, however, respect certain quality requirements linked to the brand concept and image. The opening hours are determined in consultation between the entrepreneur and the company, in this case Ubiway Retail, and can sometimes be determined by the owner of the premises. The owners of the premises are often third parties. The shops themselves, the physical infrastructure in the case of Ubiway Retail are sometimes located in shopping centres or airports. Now, in the event of disputes, I can give you a list of these - labour law banks have repeatedly confirmed the status of self-employed entrepreneurs in the light of the review of the agreement between Ubiway Retail and the entrepreneur to those criteria. It is not for me to dispute that, after all, these are court rulings and they are always based on the interpretation of the criteria of Article 333 of the Programme Act. Frankly, Mr Freilich, the discussion should have taken place with my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, because I am not really competent. His cabinet has confirmed to me that no operator has today submitted a request to the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of Industrial Relations. You said that perhaps we should turn to that. Following the rulings of the labour law courts, there was never any appeal. All operators have never questioned the statement that they are self-employed, as laid down by law and not by us. As for your final question, Ubiway, which belongs to Bpost until Monday and becomes part of Golden Palace after closing, it must of course comply with the law, like all similar shops.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u36	Madam Secretary, I did my homework. I have here a ruling from the Administrative Commission for the settlement of the employment relationship, the Dutch-speaking Chamber, which deals with a very similar deal. What's it about? Someone had a betting office, and all the elements were similar. That man wasn't allowed to decide when the office opened, that man wasn't allowed to decide the property, that man wasn't allowed to decide what was sold. He wasn't supposed to decide anything. He got a commission. That is exactly the same model: no risk, no financial input, no profit, a commission and hours imposed. But he had to be self-employed. I quote from the conclusion of 24 August 2017. It's ruling 97, just to be clear, in case you want to look it up afterwards. "In view of the foregoing, the Administrative Commission on Employment Regulations states that the employment relationship as proposed is not compatible with the self-employed qualification chosen by the person concerned, given the limited freedom of organisation of working time, the limited freedom of organisation of work and the presence of the possibility of carrying out hierarchical control." By the way, these hierarchical controls are also available at the bpost shops. There is a manager who comes to see if the necessary volumes are actually achieved. They don't do marketing either. I therefore believe that there are enough elements to say that something is not right here. And yes, the model of Franchising you call commission system is known. I know a number of franchise operators myself. I called them. One has a Brico, the other has a Carrefour. They say to me that they own the property they invested. If they stop, they can sell the property together with the trading fund. They don't have that at the Press Shops, there's no trading fund, there's nothing there. In most franchise models in our country, Brico, Carrefour, etc., they can decide what is sold alongside the regular products and also share in the profits. So yes, the model of commission partnerships exists, but sometimes it goes very far. I've also spoken to several labor economists. I also spoke to the legal service of Unizo, which has a point system to know if someone is self-employed, a false self-employed or an employed worker. If you add these points, you can see that in the case of Ubiway they are clearly false self-employed. This is a huge problem because your government knew this. If you tell me that the committee system exists in our country, you can, but if the government itself runs those shops, then of course it is all the worse! We have an exemplary role to play. The whole discussion is about platforms like Deliveroo, but I want to see that the government itself has a Deliveroo system. That's what it's about, that's the crux of this story. The government itself owns the Press Shops. You may be glad they're almost sold, but all those years that it's gone wrong, we haven't done anything. I tried to go to the ruling committee myself. It is not a ruling committee, it is the Administrative Commission for the settlement of the employment relationship. My question was rejected as I am not an interested party. As an MP, I couldn't get any information. The only one who can go there is either Ubiway himself, which obviously doesn't want to do this, or an operator. However, the managers I spoke to feared loss of income while they needed their income. The operators work like a dog, 70 hours for 2,300 euros, but they can't do otherwise. If an operator goes to that courthouse, he'll lose it. I find it poignant that this could have happened under a public undertaking for so long. That explains my question to you, Madam Secretary. You have a few days left, and you do have the authority. In the coming days, you can ask for a ruling. If you don't want to do that, it's up to you, but I'm still asking you, as a government, to keep a close watch. When Golden Palace takes over those newspaper stores, we must be sure that it is not a matter of false self-employed people. If at the end of the journey it turns out that I am right or getting what chance I think is real, then I want to know whether the lost income, both for robbing our RSZ, our social cash, and for the hard work of those independent operators, will be recovered from bpost. I think that's only normal. That is why I am tabling a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u37	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michael Freilich and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Heard the interplay of Mr Michael Freilich and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, - having regard to the coalition agreement, which states that it is necessary to combat bogus self-employment and bogus employment; - whereas the Belgian State is a majority shareholder of bpost NV, which in turn holds 100% of the shares in Ubiway Retail NV; - having regard to the large indications, including on the Ubiway website, that the way in which Ubiway Retail SA's approximately 175 stores operate may be classified as a form of false self-employment; - whereas on Monday 28 February the shares of bpost in Ubiway Retail NV would first be transferred to a company of the Golden Palace group; - considering that the public authorities should set a good example in terms of social security obligations, both vis-à-vis the State Treasury and the dungeoned operators; asks the government - to submit before the transfer of shares in Ubiway Retail NV, which is scheduled to take place on Monday 28 October, an application for qualification of the employment relationship of Ubiway Retail NV's shop owners to the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Employment Relationship; - to ensure that bpost will reimburse all lost income by the possible false self-employment at Ubiway Retail NV, both in respect of the state treasury and of the duped operators, such as, but not limited to, the lost RSZ contributions, any administrative or criminal fines, the loss of earnings and the loss of extralegal benefits." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michael Freilich and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Michael Freilich and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Public Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post Office, - Whereas the government agreement provides that the phenomenon of false self-employed and false employees should be combated; - Whereas the Belgian State is a majority shareholder of bpost SA, which in turn holds 100% of the shares of Ubiway Retail SA; - in view of the numerous indications, notably on the Ubiway website, that the mode of operation of the approximately 175 stores in Ubiway Retail can be assimilated to a form of false independence; - Whereas the shares of Ubiway Retail SA held by bpost should, on Monday 28 February, become the property of a Golden Palace group company; Whereas the State must set the right example for social law obligations, both vis-à-vis the public treasury and vis-à-vis duped operators; asks the government - to file, before the sale of the shares of Ubiway Retail SA scheduled for Monday, 28 February, an application for the qualification of the employment relationship of the operators of the stores of Ubiway Retail SA to the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Employment Relationship; - to ensure that bpost compensates for all income losses resulting from possible false independence within Ubiway Retail SA, both vis-à-vis the public treasury and vis-à-vis duped operators, in particular, but not only, loss of ONSS contributions, possible administrative or criminal fines and lost extra-legal remuneration and benefits." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Maggie De Block and Mr Karin Jiroflée and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Karin Jiroflée and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u38	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u39	Madam President, we are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 2520/1 to delete the Covid Safe Ticket. I don't think that requires a lot of explanation. I believe that today there is a willingness to debate this issue in Parliament, and this is urgent because the majority itself said that it would not apply the CST one day too much. We would like Parliament today to be able to discuss not only its possible suspension or its "freezing". Some want to keep it as a tool in the toolbox. For us, it's for the trash! It is really important to have this debate. A request for discussion in the Health Committee has already come from the N-VA Group. Having a text will enable us to discuss it urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u40	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u41	I have another request for urgent procedure from Mr De Roover for legislative proposal No. 2524/1 by Mrs Ingels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the urgency of our legislative proposal No. 2524/1. We have recently extended the epidemic emergency for the maximum period of three months. You will remember, of course, from the debate that we were not in favour of this. Those three months are, however, a maximum period. The proposal we are putting forward aims to bring the epidemic situation to an end as soon as possible by this House. This means that we have to consider this urgently. In a moment Mr Verherstraeten will ask for the urgency of a proposal which goes in the same direction for the same reasons. We will, of course, support that urgency. It goes without saying that our proposal needs to be dealt with in the same way. I am therefore counting on urgency to be granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u43	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u44	The urgency is rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u45	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of our legislative proposal No. 2525/1. The proposal that I tabled together with my colleagues from the majority differs from the previous proposal that this is done subject to a decision of the Consultation Committee and subject to the necessary opinions of the RAG and the Minister for Health, as provided for in the pandemic law. This proposal is therefore not a pre-dated proposal, as opposed to the previous one. If the condition is met that the emergency is no longer available according to the experts, then we are ready to begin the discussion with the necessary urgency and competence. Subject to that reservation, we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u46	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten's speech gives the impression that he is suggesting why there had been no urgency earlier, and he is now. Mr Verherstraeten, as you say, the content, not the urgency. If your proposal is urgent, so is ours. We will consistently support the urgency, but I repeat that this is not a preliminaries to our possible voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u47	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u48	The urgency is accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u49	Madam President, may I ask for the link between the handling of our bill and that of Mr Verherstraeten?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we can move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u51	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 15 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 15 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 246/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 246/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u52	Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u53	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate on 15 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate Policy of 15 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 248/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Kim Buyst. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 248/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kim Buyst. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u54	Madam President, we have just had an embarrassing debate on this subject, but this study clearly does not fit in with the majority. Minister De Sutter was there as the chickens to level the study. Minister Van der Straeten later referred to the study as suggestive and tried to contradict any conclusion. However, the researchers of the University of Antwerp seriously question our dependence on energy imports in the future because they fear the surpluses in neighbouring countries. They say that a complete core step would mean that security of supply would be compromised. They talk about blackouts and even about possible cuts and price increases. They clearly question the feasibility of the international CO2 targets. It's one of so many studies that's been there in the meantime. It is yet another confirmation that the government is wrong. That is why I asked the Minister in committee to include the results of the study in the decision to be taken on 18 March on the possible extension of the lifetime of Objective 4 and Tihange 3, and that is exactly what I am asking for in my motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u55	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u56	Yes 86 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u57	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate on 15 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate Policy of 15 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 249/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Kim Buyst. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 249/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kim Buyst. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the interview given a few weeks ago by the Federal Ombudsman for Energy must put us on the ground. He's a man who's in practice every day and who knows what's alive. He's sent a lot of important signals into the world. For example, he talks about possibly hundreds of thousands of families at risk of poverty in the coming period. He also has a lot of reservations about the lack of structural measures in the fight against the high energy bill. He mentioned the 100 euro heating premium against the high invoices faced by the consumer. He even called it a missed opportunity. Among other things, I can draw your attention to the need for a permanent VAT reduction, combined with a further degreasing of the invoice, which should make a structural contribution to reducing the energy bill. That actually comes down to what Flemish Interest has been saying here for a long time. That is why we are calling for this motion to intervene in a clear and systematic manner on the energy bill, to introduce a permanent and unconditional reduction in VAT on natural gas and electricity, and also to ensure that the energy suppliers are paid in good time, given the higher number of families receiving the social tariff, while avoiding the bankruptcy of more energy companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u59	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u60	Yes 88 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u61	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 16 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission on 16 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 259/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 259/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am standing here with the same dossier as I did a year and a half ago. Even then, the distress call of the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet sounded that accused people do language shopping. The defendants invoke their multilingualism and choose Brussels courts, which pass more lax sentences and sometimes even make things obsolete. Minister Van Quickenborne would work on this one and a half years ago in connection with the motion. Today it appears that language shopping not only costs time and money, but also jeopardises road safety. The defendants ask for a language change and dispatch to a Brussels court before the police court. It is then granted or not, and in this way reckless drivers sometimes continue to drive around for more than a year without punishment, treatment and/or withdrawal of their driving licence. Coalition partner Vooruit was also not to be mentioned. So we already have an ally in the majority. There is a simple solution to the problem, which the King's Attorney calls for, namely the adaptation of Article 23 of the language law in court cases. Indeed, if an interpreter is present at the hearing, the rights of the defence are guaranteed and a case can be dealt with immediately before the police court with territorial jurisdiction. I therefore make a simple appeal to the Minister and to you to support the motion in order to increase road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u63	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u64	Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u65	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 16 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission on 16 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 260/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 260/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u66	I take on board the explanation of vote given by my colleague, Mr Dillen. Many families are currently facing a very difficult financial situation. In the case of friendly recovery, exorbitant increases, interest and damages are sometimes claimed. A small debt of 100 euros can thus easily reach 400 or 500 euros. The National Chamber of Court of Justice bailiffs argues in favour of creating a legal framework to top up the costs of a friendly recovery. They propose to set a percentage of the recovery costs. They also want a communication platform on which the information of the OCMWs on debt is gathered. In this way, the bailiffs can work together to speed up the release of debt. Such a project is already under way in Antwerp. Last week's committee promised the Minister of Justice that a package of measures would be proposed this year to reduce the cost of justice and implementation. We hope to receive the necessary texts by the summer recess, so that we can achieve this before the end of the year. This is about judicial recovery. For the friendly recovery, he referred us to the Minister for Economic Affairs. There was apparently no consultation in this shared matter. With the motion we want to encourage the government to create a legal framework to top up the friendly recovery costs and to take the necessary initiatives to roll out that communication platform across the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u67	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u68	Yes 89 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u69	This inquiry was developed in plenary today. This interplay was held in today's plenary session. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 264/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michael Freilich; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Karin Jiroflée and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 264/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Michael Freilich; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Karin Jiroflée and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u70	Yes 83 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u71	Vote on Amendment No 14 by Thierry Warmoes to Article 32.(2465/10) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Thierry Warmoes on Article 32.(2465/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u72	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 32 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 32 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u73	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u74	Yes 104 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u75	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Bert Wollants to Article 2.(2466/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Bert Wollants on article 2.(2466/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u76	Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u78	Yes 76 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u79	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Reccino Van Lommel to Article 17.(2388/8) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Reccino Van Lommel on Article 17.(2388/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u80	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 to Article 20 by Reccino Van Lommel.(2388/8) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Reccino Van Lommel on Article 20.(2388/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u81	Yes 34 Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u82	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u83	Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u84	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an Article 6/1(n).(2438/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an article 6/1(n).(2438/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u85	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an Article 6/2(n).(2438/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an article 6/2(n).(2438/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u86	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an Article 6/3(n).(2438/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an article 6/3(n).(2438/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u87	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an Article 7/1(n).(2438/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an article 7/1(n).(2438/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u88	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an Article 7/2(n).(2438/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an article 7/2(n).(2438/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u89	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an Article 7/3(n).(2438/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to insert an article 7/3(n).(2438/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u90	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u92	Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u93	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to Article 2.(2460/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Kathleen Depooster cs on article 2.(2460/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u94	Yes [[22]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2.(2460/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck on article 2.(2460/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u95	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2.(2460/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck on article 2.(2460/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u96	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2.(2460/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck on article 2.(2460/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u97	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2.(2460/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck on article 2.(2460/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u98	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u99	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u100	Yes 103 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to have one of those so-called people in the shade today. They are the ones who in large numbers ensure that the different systems function, then evolve and modernise with the aim of bringing our institutions closer to the citizens. They also ensure that the processes are smooth and the mechanisms are harmonious. This, as you know, is certainly the role of the services of the Chamber, which enables us every day to hold our debates, our meetings, our activities... We thank them for this. Today you, Mrs Deboutte, deputy griffin and director-general of the legislative services, attend your last plenary session; you who have experienced so much. You are now on your way to a well-deserved pension. May this be happy, full of joy and fruitful activities. You have been trained as a lawyer and criminalist, and thanks to this rich education you were able to acquire an invaluable knowledge of the law. You have also led the main committees of inquiry of our institution, in particular those concerning the Gang of Nivelles and Fortis. This task you accomplished with brio and professionalism. Within the Committee on Justice, you have always been very involved in ethical debates such as removing abortion from criminal law and the organ donation. Your career is thus certainly marked by events and anecdotes that you have been able to live from the many commissions, of which you have become director, to the post of deputy clerk. And I know, for example, that you keep excellent memories of several missions that you have organized, with this sense of rigour and efficiency. And even, we have slipped, a notable preference, among all those, for the one who led you to China under the leadership of one of my predecessors, the former Speaker of the House, Herman De Croo. As an Assistant Clerk and Director General of Legislative Services, you have counted up to ten directors under your responsibility. In this position of manager, you quickly introduced a new culture, that of consultation, and you ensured the necessary reforms and innovations. The Registry of Lobbyists and the Petitions Platform will be identified. You have also reformed the Department of Naturalization to become the Department of Citizenship. A strong symbol of these struggles to increase the vitality of representative democracy and, above all, its connection with the population. As a deputy griffin, you were closely involved in the introduction of e-meetings and e-voting, two instruments that proved useful during the covid period, but also in the organisation of more functional meetings in the Chamber. Dear Mrs Deboutte, in a way you will now have your freedom back. As a young grandmother, you will be able to spend more time with your grandson Emile. It may not be possible for you to travel with him to Panama, his mother's homeland. I also know that you will remain very active and will, even on a voluntary basis, put your experience and expertise at the service of the parliamentary cooperation agreement with the Moroccan Chamber of Representatives. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that you will join me in congratulating Mrs Reinhilde Deboutte and thanking her for her years of commitment to the service of this House. Thank you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u102	Another big thank you to Mrs Deboutte for her efficiency and especially her availability. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that Mrs Deboutte stayed with us until the last minute, all day and all night. It will be your very last day in plenary. Four more minutes and it's your last day!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u103	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u104	Yes 99 Yes No. 33 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2393/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2393/1 was therefore rejected. ------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u105	Vote/Vote 1(MOT246) - Mr Khalil Aouasti voted as his group. Mr Egbert Lachaert has voted like his group. Mrs Nahima Lanjri has voted like her group. - Mrs. Sophie Rohonyi voted in favour. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u106	Vote/Vote 2(MOT248) - Mrs. Nathalie Gilson voted like her group. - Mrs. Sophie Rohonyi voted in favour. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Vote 3(MOT249) Mr Wim Van der Donkt has voted like his group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Vote 4(MOT259) Mr Wim Van der Donkt has voted like his group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Vote 5(MOT260) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u107	Vote/Vote 6(MOT264) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u108	Vote/Steming 7(2465/10) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 8(2465/8) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 9(2466/7) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 10(2466/3) - Mr Khalil Aouasti voted as his group. Mr Dieter Vanbesien voted in favour. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u109	Vote/Steming 11(2388/8) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 12(2388/8) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 13(2388/7) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mrs Caroline Taquin voted as her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 14(2438/5) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 15(2438/5) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 16(2438/5) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 17(2438/5) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 18(2438/5) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 19(2438/5) - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. Mrs Annick Ponthier has voted like her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 20(2438/4) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 21(2460/5) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 22(2460/5) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 23(2460/5) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 24(2460/5) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 25(2460/5) - Mr. Gilles Guillaume Defossé voted in favour. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Vote 26(2460/4) Mr Steven Creyelman has voted like his group. - Mrs Eliane Tillieux voted as her group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. Vote/Steming 27(2393/2) - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip166x.u110	We must approve the agenda for the sitting on 10 March 2022. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the sitting of 10 March 2022. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 10 March 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 10, 2022, at 2.15 p.m.
