ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u1	Mr Minister, the bakery group La Lorraine forecasts price increases "unprecedented", could we read in the press two months ago. Test Purchases announces price increases of 6% on average compared to the previous year; some products such as oil or pasta even increase by 26% to 30%. And analysts think that the bulk of the price increases remain to come, probably this fall. There are many causes for these increases: the price of raw materials, energy and fuels, but also and above all speculation. These increases are likely to continue or even increase in the coming months. Minister, you have the expertise of the Price Observatory to carry out studies on inflation and to carry out a market survey. Its analyses are sent to you and to the Belgian Competition Authority (ABC). What are you doing with the price observatory analyses? Do you think that it would be necessary to go further and allow stronger interventionism to combat price increases? Moreover, in France, the owner of Leclerc stores recently stated that half of the price increases were suspicious. Mr Michel-Édouard Leclerc denounced the lack of transparency regarding prices and asked for a commission of inquiry into "the suspicious origin of part of inflation". Do you also think that part of inflation is suspicious and that more transparency is needed on price formation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u2	Mr President, you do not end up astonishing me, since, after quoting Bruno Colmant in this committee and in plenary last week, you are now quoting the owner and owner of the Leclerc stores! Indeed, price increases are a worrying phenomenon that both the Price Observatory and the Belgian Competition Authority monitor to determine whether they are caused by anti-competitive behaviour. The Authority pays particular attention to the economic shocks caused by rising energy prices and the war in Ukraine, as mentioned in its priority note for 2022. The Authority intends to concentrate its resources on sectors affected by these shocks such as the agri-food industry and the rest of the value chain. I am convinced that the fight against too high prices and margins is a socio-economic challenge that needs to be better addressed. This is why the Government has decided to strengthen the budgetary resources of the Belgian Competition Authority. Recently, the Commission imposed two fines for more than EUR 30 million for anti-competitive practices contrary to the general interest. If I may say so, it bodes well for inflation to be better contained in the medium term. I also believe that the current tensions in the agri-food sector should be mitigated by the legislation recently adopted here in Parliament in order to better protect small farmers and small and medium-sized food enterprises from unfair practices of large-scale distribution. Finally, I asked the Price Observatory to study more specifically the evolution of the margins of companies and to compare them with those of neighbouring countries. This will allow us to have a more detailed analysis of the situation and the disparities between Belgian companies and the prices they charge their customers and what is happening at the level of their foreign counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. But I would have liked to hear from you about the potential speculation. Because if prices do not increase according to the cost of energy or anything and there is actually inflation, I think it is at that level that you should act, but you have not answered this question. I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u4	Minister, a few years ago, public opinion was alerted by a dangerous game broadcast by teenagers on social networks: the scarf game, which caused several deaths by asphyxiation. Another dangerous game is currently alerting parents: the Labello Challenge, which consists of taking cocoa butter as a symbol of ill-being. Young people must put cocoa butter or cut a piece of it at every event that is not well experienced in their day, every time they are upset. Once the tube is finished, the young person must end his or her life. This challenge circulates at a crazy speed and encourages to be repeated. I took this example, but I could also have talked about the Tide Pod Challenge, which consists of chewing bags of laundry or the Blue Whale Challenge, the last event of which also invites suicide, all of which are dangerous challenges on social networks. Without denying the difficult period that adolescence can represent, even more so with the health crisis that we have been through, I believe that the authorities must react to ensure that this type of incitement to self-destruction is censored as quickly as possible. Minister, this question was originally a written question to Minister De Sutter, but she told me that it was your ministerial competence, which is why I would ask you. Will the new Digital Services Act (DSA) adopted at European level, once transposed, allow networks such as TikTok to quickly remove these content to avoid the contagion effect? Is the DSA a sufficient response to address the various deadly challenges on social networks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u5	Mr President, Mr Prévot, thank you for your question, which allows me to go back to the scope of the powers that are mine. We have already had the opportunity to discuss this with Mrs Van Bossuyt about the historic elevators. This is the case here with TikTok. You mentioned the DSA regulation. As you know, it is currently in the final phase of negotiations at European Union level and its aim is to fight more effectively against all types of online illegality. As soon as it is implemented, it will in particular give every citizen a concrete means of acting against illegal content encountered online by allowing them to notify these content to intermediaries, who then have an obligation to follow up on these notifications. It will also allow any national supervisory authority to send a withdrawal order directly to the intermediary, regardless of where it is established. The DSA also addresses, to a certain extent, the legal content but nevertheless harmful. Large platforms will have an obligation to make a risk assessment every year in order to identify systemic risks associated with the use of their services. They will then have to put in place appropriate mitigation measures. These measures will be subject to an independent audit and sanctions may be imposed if these platforms have failed to meet their obligations. Finally, it should be noted that DSA intends to strengthen the protection of minors, one of the target audiences of this kind of TikTok challenge, and that, in my view, is a crucial element of the regulation. Following its implementation, all platforms will have an obligation to put in place appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure a high level of privacy, safety and security for minors using their services. I have asked my administration to follow this matter very closely in order to prepare for the effective implementation of the regulation in our national law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. We are indeed waiting for this transposition. The DSA Regulation is currently in its final phase. The stated aim of this regulation, and therefore of the national transposition which will have to result, is indeed to strengthen security on these social networks. Here I took the example of a challenge that was sadly topical, but, as I said in my question, there are others that unfortunately cause death every year. Of course, we will have to be very careful. I hear you and the members of your cabinet are. I hope that the transposition can take place quickly and that, in any case, we can quickly have real concrete measures that will enable both the platforms and the public, who find themselves confronted with inappropriate content, to quickly remove these content from social networks in order to avoid their virtuality and multiplication.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u7	Minister, a while ago I asked you a question about the rising funeral costs. After all, a funeral has become particularly expensive. At that time I had made some suggestions, such as a funeral grant, such as a birth grant, or a covenant between the undertakers, in order to make an effort to reduce costs. You said the following: 'Your suggestions must be analysed by my administration. At the moment I do not have a clear position on this, but I am ready to look at it. That was a while ago, so I wonder if your administration has worked on that in the meantime. Moreover, it has recently been read that rising energy prices and a shortage of raw materials are also likely to make cremations more expensive. It is again about an increase of between 8% and 10%. Has your administration studied this problem? Do you have any other suggestions to address the rising funeral costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u8	Mrs Depraetere, the introduction of a funeral grant is not within my competence, but within the competence of the Communities. I therefore refer you to them to investigate that possibility. The convention of professional groups is only common in our country for the medical professions. In this context, agreements are made between healthcare providers and insurers on the fees laid down. Applying the same technique to undertakers is not self-evident. Funeral expenses are much less often reimbursed by an insurer than medical costs. Moreover, since the price setting is free in Belgium, a convention cannot be required. Such a system stands or falls with the will of the undertakers to convention themselves. Finally, there seems to be little added value in a convention in this sector. Economic regulation obliges companies to clearly indicate their prices for homogeneous services. These rules ensure that consumers have a prior view of the rates applied. The Economic Inspection shall ensure that this transparent indication of prices is respected. In this way, consumers can compare different undertakers in advance and make an informed choice. Within the federal economic framework, there are no obvious solutions to the higher prices of funeral services. Unfortunately, high inflation affects goods and services in general. In any case, I encourage consumers to compare prices properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for looking at some of the proposals and giving your opinion on them. The proposal to introduce a funeral grant can certainly be passed on to our colleagues in the Flemish Parliament. Indeed, we are not in control of inflation. Prices are rising. Yet it is an underrated problem. The funeral cost is so high. Many people do not realize this until they get the invoice on the bus at a difficult time. We will certainly continue to take this up with our colleagues in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u10	Minister, more than 11 months after the floods, many people are still struggling with insurance or the Disaster Fund to get their homes repaired. Indeed, the cost of the work has often been undervalued by the experts. In addition, the compensation to be paid by the insurers has been capped, while the premiums have increased - while you promised the opposite. In short, insurance companies are the great winners of this dramatic event, to the detriment of citizens. The reforms of the 2000s involved private insurance and introduced the ceiling on the payment of compensation. These reforms should ensure good coverage for insured persons, as well as faster compensation, as well as savings for the Disaster Fund. None of these objectives appear to have been achieved. Minister, have you contacted the insurance companies involved to speed up the remaining compensation? When do you think the last files will be resolved? How do you react to the fact that insurance today requires very high premiums for residents of risk areas, while it collects premiums from all Belgians, who are supposed to dilute the risk involved? What do you intend to do to limit the increase in premiums in the future, knowing that the ceiling on the payment of allowances is clearly useless? Finally, can you tell us more about how you want to review the limit on the payment of compensation by insurers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u11	Mr D'Amico, thank you for your question. According to the latest information available, nine out of ten claims were either fully or almost fully compensated. As for the 10% of those still to be achieved, an agreement on all the items of damage has not yet been reached. In any event, the amounts agreed between the insurer and the insured have already been paid. The reasons why 10% of files are still under processing are as follows. First of all, the insured person still has to provide certain proofs. Then several assessments are required depending on the drying of the building or the execution of partial works. Discussions are also ongoing with the counter-expert. Finally, the availability of certain trades has slowed down the execution of the work. As far as the ceiling is concerned, all parties want a reform of the ceiling. However, there is a need to look at several avenues and to measure their impact. It is therefore essential that the reform aimed at increasing the responsibility of insurers does not lead to too high an increase in insurance premiums. To do this, the technical analysis was entrusted to the National Bank of Belgium, while the legal analysis was entrusted to the SPF Economie. We are currently consulting with the Regions before working on a draft bill. In the case of risk areas, the Insurance Act provides for the possibility, in the case of insurers, of refusing to cover property located in a flood-prone area. In this case, the fire risk insurer will apply the rate of the charging office for natural disaster coverage, unless the property was built more than 18 months after the announcement of the crossing of the area into a flood zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u12	Minister, I take note of your answer and thank you for it. However, I am not satisfied with the premiums that will rise and that all Belgians will have to pay, including those affected by these disasters. In my opinion, there is still an injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u13	Mrs Matz cannot be present to ask her question; she is retained in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u14	Mr Minister, for the past year and a half, associations, municipalities and parliamentarians, including in this committee, have been expressing their concerns about bank desertification and the disappearance of distributors. Very recently, the Walloon government put this item on the agenda of the Consultation Committee. I did the retroacts of the file. I'm a trained historian. In June 2021, you announced a Cash Task Force within the National Bank on the subject, including the prospect of developing a model to assess public access to banking services. In September 2021, you considered Batopin's allocation plan worrying and mandated the National Bank to analyze a possible increase in interbank rates. In December 2021, you announced two leads. On the one hand, a protocol with the banking sector and, on the other hand, in the event of a failure of the protocol – a case that has been confirmed – a bill by the summer to best address issues related to the accessibility of financial services. In June 2022, the final step was this Consultation Committee. We have read the conclusions of this report. It directs the federal government to conduct a new evaluation to improve citizens' access to financial services. I therefore have several questions about this last communication. Minister, why is there a need for a new evaluation when all the upstream work has already been done within the National Bank? What about this evaluation model? Could we have the public results of this? What are the partnerships with Walloon initiatives on the subject? I think the Iweps is also working on the subject. What about the results of the Cash Task Force and the continuation of its activities? Finally, what is your schedule for the legislative work and the bill announced for the summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u15	Minister, it has been five months since you last spoke on Batopin. In the meantime, we find that financial services continue to decline. ATMs and bank branches continue to disappear in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. You know the plan yourself, and you had indicated that you were not in favour of it. As you said, additional criteria were needed for better distribution and a finer network of basic banking services. Now we are five months away and I find that Batopin is continuing to develop a neutral ATM network. When I last consulted their site, 18 % had already been planned and 15 % had already been realized. There will therefore be a reduction from 9,000 to 2,200 vending machines for the entire territory by 2030. In the meantime, you said that you would take some steps and set up a working group, together with the Finance and Consumer Protection Ministers and with the industry itself. You would also order an analysis from the National Bank of Belgium to see if a better distribution is possible. You said you preferred consultation and dialogue. If, however, you did not arrive at the expected result and your comments were to fall into deaf ears, I note that the banks will continue to delete the service provided, then you would also take steps and submit a draft law to impose additional criteria and increase the coverage of basic services. Minister, what is the current state of affairs? Has that working group produced any results? What does the analysis of the National Bank of Belgium teach you? What additional criteria will you impose on Batopin, or at least on Belfius, a government bank in which you yourself have a role to play to enable a fine-measuring network of ATMs? What do you think of the concept of the 15 minute city, in which financial services are available within 15 minutes, so within walking distance? Can this be imposed as a criterion? When will you file that bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u16	Members of the House, your questions concern an important subject on which we are working together with my colleagues the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. An assessment of the status of TMAs has been requested and should be carried out before the end of this year to guide policy choices in this area. To carry out this evaluation, we have asked the National Bank to provide a number of information elements, which we are still waiting for. This will allow us to know the number of distributors and their location on the territory as of 31 December 2021 and will also allow us to integrate the impact of the Batopin project. The National Bank was asked whether it would be technically feasible to apply a criterion for the accessibility of ATMs based on the number of kilometres to be travelled by road rather than the number of kilometres in a bird's-fly. Depending on the assessment, I will decide with my government colleagues what we will do about it. It could be a bill or a protocol with the sector. That is what I do not believe much at the moment, since the sector represented by Febelfin has left the negotiating table. We were then in the first phase of negotiation and work on the evolution and impact of this project on the network and availability of ATMs in Belgium. However, within the government, the decision was taken to resume negotiations in an attempt to reach an agreement with the sector, with a view to ensuring the accessibility of these ATMs to all Belgian citizens, whether they live in the city or in the countryside and whatever the region. I also intend to consult the Belgian Competition Authority on certain issues relating to competition rights in relation to the solutions envisaged with regard to the issue of accessibility to ATMs. Some issues remain unresolved in the context of competition law and the initiatives taken by the various banks in that country within Batopin or Jofico. Work continues. This is the report which was forwarded to the members of the Consultation Committee on this matter by the Walloon Government. All the members of the Concerted Committee were in line with this working logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am overwhelmed by the state of the situation. On the one hand, you announce that the BNB intends to carry out new studies. She was seized of the subject a year ago, which leaves time for work. The lost time and extended time allow Batopin to deploy its project. Now, we know his calendar; it's late 2024. Pending this study, which will serve as a basis for a bill, what will remain of our network of distributors? It's a waste of time. I take note of the postponement of the bill that was announced in the summer. But it looks like a serious admission of failure. If difficulties exist, point them out! Be transparent! I have no doubt that you have the best will in the world on this issue, but point out what's blocking! The transparency of the discussions within the BNB has been called for several times: membership, mandate, objectives and results are issues that concern citizens, small traders, associations and sports clubs. This must be transparent and there must be a timetable and concrete for the population. This work needs to be communicated at some point with much more transparency. As a follow-up to the process, we call for transparency on the agenda, the difficulties encountered and the work within the National Bank. This work requires urgency. After the last consultation committee, new interviews found the damage to bank desertification. Today, it is a matter of going beyond the findings and moving on to action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u18	Minister, I expected a little more from your answer. You promised this bill by mid-March, it's July and there's still nothing. I ask this government for a little more firmness. I know you're against the Batopin project, but in the meantime, the distributors are flying away and we're still hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u19	I have to join my colleagues. Right now, we've lost a lot of valuable time. The banks are going through with their plan. You want to get back to your studies. You want to make a new attempt to renegotiate with the sector, when you had previously communicated that the negotiations had been a failure. A new study is still a new waste of time, while more and more people are deprived of financial services. It's still a social problem. In this sense, the PVDA is in favour of further digitisation of payment traffic and we are charmed by the initiatives that help to overcome the digital divide. In our society, however, we still cannot do without cash money in certain applications and contexts. More and more segments of the population, such as the older population, are experiencing difficulties. The municipality of Zelzate, from which I come, is also completely cut off from financial services on the West Bank. More than 5,000 people have to move to the center with a bridge that is open 20 times a day. However, it is not just about Zelzate. The problem of the municipality of Zelzate is representative for many other rural municipalities. Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! This government must assume its responsibilities, including with regard to the sector. Bpost, within Jofico, and Belfius, within Batopin, are still government banks. They must take responsibility for optimising service provision for a finer ATM network, in order to ensure that basic banking services remain accessible to all. Look not only at distance criteria, but also at accessibility criteria in terms of time. In Zelzate a bank machine can be accessible to everyone within a 2 km radius, but if a bridge is open 20 times a day, then it is about the time taken. Sometimes they're on their way for an hour. These criteria must also be respected. Otherwise, the societal challenges that exist in this area will not be reflected. We will continue to monitor this and we will continue to insist on the responsibility to meet the demands of an increasing proportion of the population cut off from financial services by re-enhancing services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u20	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u21	Minister, I have a number of questions about the economic situation we are in. I know I put these questions to the fore, but that is because I do not think we should look the other way. The signals I have spoken about in the past are very clear. In the end, they are also evident from my various questions of today. Mr Minister, it is a subject which is of particular interest to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but also to you in your capacity as Minister for Economic Affairs. In the economic outlook we can see that there are important alarm bells and that important signals are emerging. Firstly, the World Bank's statements are particularly gloomy in terms of global economic growth. The World Bank states that there will be a long-term situation of stagflation, a combination of particularly low or undersized economic growth and excessive inflation. The World Bank even states that this situation could last for a full decade. The World Bank therefore assumes that it will be difficult for many countries to avoid a further economic recession. Minister, what is your response to that report, which you have certainly been able to hear? A term that we have often used in committee is stagflation. I know that, in response to my speech a few weeks ago, you made it very clear that there was no recession or stagflation and that it was not going to be there either. However, if economic growth were not to resume, what measures would you take? Similar prospects, albeit not in the long term of a decade, can also be seen at ING, where the principal economist has made a number of statements. He says it all doesn't bode well for our country. In the second half of the year, in which we are now beginning to arrive, economic activity will almost cease, with zero growth or even negative growth. You know that we could effectively speak of a recession, if this happens several quarters in a row. They also say that stagflation is peeping around the corner. They refer to companies facing price increases in raw materials, but also to costs resulting from wage indexation that must also be passed on to customers. For these companies, it appears that it is becoming increasingly difficult to pass that on, and ING dares to predict that restructuring will have to be carried out and perhaps even made redundant in the future. The question then is who will be the child of the account. Minister, what do you think of the ING report? The other questions on this subject are the same as those on the World Bank. Then I turn to the forecasts of the National Bank of Belgium. The National Bank of Belgium says, contrary to what you said earlier in this committee, that economic growth will also cease in the next quarter. It would certainly attract in the autumn. The ING and the World Bank deny that. They say that inflation will remain persistent, but will gradually decline. What is your response to the National Bank's report, Minister? Do you consider the likelihood of an economic recession particularly high? Minister, everything that has to do with entrepreneurial confidence is also an important indicator. As you know, there is a monthly survey of consumer confidence on the one hand and entrepreneurial confidence on the other. This indicator clearly shows that firms' confidence fell sharply in June, particularly in the four major industrial sectors and, in particular, in manufacturing. An important reason is that there is a decrease in the prospects for suppliers' orders and also a decrease in demand. I would like to add another parameter to that, namely commodity prices. They have clearly gone to a peak, but among other things the prices of copper, steel and aluminum have been in free fall over the last few days. Well, that's got to mean something. While at one point there were many companies that claimed that they could not make their equipment because their capacity was too small, we are now getting more and more signals that these companies are not just stocked, but that they are starting to beg for additional orders. I believe that, in addition to entrepreneurial confidence, this is an important indicator. Minister, how disturbing do you find this decline in entrepreneurial confidence? When do you think the confidence of entrepreneurs will be restored? I will continue with the annual report of the Bank for International Settlements of BIS, which provides banking services for the central banks. This annual report warns that inflation risks becoming anchored in our economy unless drastic measures are taken. So the question is, what are we going to do with that? If we are in a stag-flation situation, we can, as the US Federal Reserve advocates, raise interest rates and strive for a short but strong recession, then ensure that inflation stops and the economy can recover. Of course, that's one particular slope. Anyway, the BIS states that the tide is hard to reverse. So I would like to know how you, as a minister, are opposed to this position. How urgent is the situation in Belgium? What measures do you consider appropriate in this respect? Then I come to the economic consequences of the increase in interest rates. First, the US Federal Reserve decided to raise interest rates significantly in an attempt to stop inflation. The ECB did the same, but to a much lesser extent. Of course, this has a negative impact on economic growth. It creates an economic environment in which it is much less interesting for businesses and households to buy or invest, leading, among other things, to price falls and so on. After all, when interest rates rise, companies will be much less inclined to invest. Once again, the recession lurks around the corner as a doomsday. Minister, I know that we do not have much in our hands when it comes to monetary policy, because that is what the ECB is about. However, we must not close our eyes. We live in a world with different speeds. In America, interest rates are much higher than in Europe. This will increase the economic spread. Even within the European Union, the different countries live at different economic speeds. There, too, one may wonder what influence the current policy will have. How do you view the rising fear of an economic recession linked to interest rates? What are the chances that we will end up not only in a local crisis, but also in a euro crisis? What are the consequences for consumer confidence? Finally, there is the whole story of the strikes. I understand, of course, that people are having a very difficult time at the moment. It is therefore understandable that they are on the streets. It is very strange to see that the Parti Socialiste.................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is the responsibility of the government to remove the current social unrest as quickly as possible. In view of the economic situation and its evolution, further strikes could cause further unrest in terms of investment, employment and prosperity in general. What explanation do you have for the series of announced strikes? We have not yet seen the latter. Do you think those strikes could have been prevented? How will you respond to citizens' concerns about their purchasing power? In what way will you work to improve the competitiveness of companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u22	Mrs Houtmeyers, Mr Van Lommel, an economic growth of 2.6 % is expected for 2022 according to the Federal Planning Office, 2.4 % according to the National Bank of Belgium and the OECD and 2% according to ING and the European Commission. At present, the projections of various bodies are based at best on a slowdown in economic activity and in the worst case of stagnation of economic activity around the third quarter of 2022. In March 2022, consumer confidence was severely affected by the war in Ukraine. It recovered very gently in April and May. It seems that the general economic situation is somewhat less disturbed. As regards employment, the National Bank of Belgium points to the robustness of the labour market in Belgium, with significant net job growth. The National Bank of Belgium predicts 85,000 additional jobs in 2022, while the Federal Planning Office expects 67,000. Indeed, inflation is persistent and according to Statbel has risen to 9.65 %. According to the National Bank, in view of the expected reduction in external cost pressures, inflation will gradually fall to less than 2% in autumn 2023. Although some developments point to a lower level of growth, they do not indicate a short-term recession. Economic activity is expected to grow again from the end of the year as the slowing-down factors affecting the economy decrease. In order to combat inflation affecting European economies, the European Central Bank will increase its main interest rates from July onwards. The European Central Bank decided to raise its interest rates by 25 basis points in July and then again in September, depending on the updated medium-term inflation forecasts, but at the moment only long-term bond interest rates on the markets are rising at historical lows. According to the National Bank's economic outlook, the increase in interest rates would not have a direct impact on companies' investments, despite the slight increase in financing costs. With regard to the demonstration of 20 June, I understand the workers who entered the streets. They demand higher wages and higher purchasing power. Between 1996 and 2014, the share of the wealth produced that goes to employees remained more or less constant at 64%. However, it fell sharply between 2014 and 2019, to 61 %. At the same time, the expert reports chaired by the Governor of the National Bank show that the margins of the companies are higher than ever, 6% higher than the average of the last 20 years. I am convinced that wages should be increased in order to increase the share of the wealth produced to at least the level of 2014. I have always advocated in the government that there should be room for wage negotiations and through these wage negotiations for fair wages. The government has taken important measures to help households pay their high energy bills, such as the extension of the extension of the social tariff, the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity, the fuel oil premium and the reduction of fuel taxes. The government is taking many measures to improve the competitiveness of businesses, but not to make workers poorer. The government is also taking important measures to improve the functioning of the labour market in the interests of workers. Improving competitiveness only makes sense if it benefits workers. So I will not be involved in increasing competitiveness by lowering wages. We are also implementing the recovery plan to increase public and private investment and support the economy. The government is also working on new measures to better deal with the difficult economic situation caused by rising energy prices. The government will base itself on the report of the experts and the National Bank. The aim is to protect the purchasing power and competitiveness of businesses as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I was sitting here cooling off a bit because of the air conditioner that's way too loud, but I woke up right away when I heard your answers. You say that economic growth is expected to increase, but if we are realistic, I think we can expect it to come to a complete halt this autumn. That is also what a lot of self-employed people and companies are feeling at the moment. One should go to a retail shop or a kitchen shop. Everyone says there's no more people coming over the floor. Consumer confidence is completely gone. You say that consumer confidence was gradually restored in March and April, but that is absolutely not the case. This is what the self-employed and entrepreneurs experience every day in their shops. They don't get people on the floor. They don't have full order books anymore. I understand that you want to be positive, which you absolutely adorned, but you cannot be naive. Because that's what I feel. I have already told you that in the past, they are predictions of people who are working on them day in, day out, but from their offices. However, if one looks at the practice, one will have a very different feeling. You also said that the increase in interest rates will have no impact on our companies. At the moment, companies are already much more difficult to obtain credit from the bank. So I'm sure there will be an impact. You are also convinced that wages must continue to rise. However, I am not convinced of that. The automatic wage index may lead to an increase in purchasing power, but consumer confidence is lost. The consumer is put on the brakes, so companies do not feel that way. There are higher costs, lower margins and more bankruptcies. I am also absolutely not sure that there will always be jobs, as you say. I also absolutely miss out on concrete measures taken by this government. The report also focuses very little on our companies and our entrepreneurs. Competitiveness is even being relied on, and I think that is completely wrong. So I was awake again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u24	Minister, I think it is incredible. I have been asking you questions about inflation, purchasing power, recession and so on for over a year now, and every time I get a very soothing answer. Sometimes it is a very short answer, but today you have gone a little wider, for which I thank you. I have presented many facts here today and quoted many different reports. Minister, I do not intend to hang a certain doom of our economic situation here. It may be the story of the half-full or half-empty glass, but in the meantime there are so many red lights burning, that one can no longer get around it. I wonder what else I have to do to open your eyes. You say that the Federal Planning Office assumes an economic growth of 2.4 %. However, everything says that in the second half of this year, in which we have now ended up, the economy is falling silent and will even grow negative in the last quarter. I think that's quite a punishment. Do you remember how I talked to you about inflation a while ago? It was then about container prices. I said that everything was going to be expensive and that it simply was not possible for consumers to feel anything about it in the long run. However, you said that the Federal Planning Office assumed an inflation rate of 1.6 %. You should see how high inflation is in the meantime. I fear that in a few months' time we will be in a situation in which we will meet again in this committee, and that we will then have to talk about very different figures than those you are referring to. You will have to say again that I was actually right at the moment. Why do you underestimate the problem? I have just quoted not only the various reports, but also the raw materials which have fallen free in recent weeks. The buyer's price has dropped by just 3,000 dollars in a short period of time. Aluminum prices were just catapulted to the level of a year ago. Steel prices are falling. Companies that had liver problems now have capacity. What else must be demonstrated so that you realise that there is a problem? With regard to entrepreneurial confidence, you refer to the war that started in March. Of course, Minister, it has started a lot, but we cannot blame everything for that. That's just not possible. Everyone knew that when corona was almost over and the economy restarted after the whole covid situation we had a lot of catching up to do. Then everything boomed and the supply chain couldn't follow. However, we knew that this would stop at some point. That is the case now. Now you say there is no recession in the short term. I do not know what you think the short-term definition is, but we are now coming to an economic standstill and soon we are going to a negative scenario, a recession. You know that this is two quarters in a row. In Germany, however, the term recession has been mentioned for much longer. I also found it very remarkable that you said that the reduction of interest rates would not have a direct impact on investment. I have never known that higher interest rates do not reduce investment, although they may be less extra investment. At some point, companies will start postponing investments. If it looks like we're heading towards a possible recession and interest rates are rising, then the companies keep their finger on it and don't invest them anymore. In the long term, this will also have an effect on the consumer. Minister, with so many different signals today, I had hoped that it might open your eyes and that the debate could be conducted in a serious way. I can only say that you continue to underestimate the problem. Next time, we will have to debate this again and again and again, unfortunately, you will have to give me more and more right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u25	I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u26	I am pleased to inform you that on Friday 1 July 2022, together with my colleague Clarinval, I took part in the signing session of the addendum, in the presence of the parties concerned, in particular the Belgian brewers, the beverage dealers and the catering federations. The event was also an opportunity to hold a constructive discussion on the various concerns that these three sectors currently have. I thank them for that. Together with Mr Clarinval, I am very pleased that this process, which was experienced by all stakeholders as a win-win situation, has been completed just before the summer. As far as the provisions in the addendum are concerned, they relate to three species. The first is the application of quotas, the second is the non-compliance with quotas and, finally, the deadlines. As regards the code of conduct, the review will start from September. It is intended to be completed by 31 December 2022. At this stage, it is impossible to know what will eventually be revised, but it is true that some stakeholders told us that there were problems with the application of the code, hence its revision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that all stakeholders perceive this as a win-win situation and that further work can be done on this basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u28	The study was indeed updated by the FPS Economy. The study showed that more and more electronic payments are being made each year and that the number of contactless or mobile payments is also increasing, especially since the corona crisis. The market for electronic payments is still evolving. Competition in Belgium seems finally to be getting off to a good start. In order to assess the evolution, between 2019 and 2022, of the costs for traders, measurements were made with two acquirers. For the first purchaser, the average annual increase in the different types of costs was limited, i.e. 1.3 % to 1.4 %. The purchase costs of a payment terminal did not even increase. For the second purchaser, the different types of costs were even unchanged. More importantly, transaction costs fell significantly. The study shows that the evolution of the cost of electronic payment is beneficial for traders. Traders who receive a limited number of transactions per day can adapt to the upcoming legislation in a relatively cheap way. I am thinking, for example, of Payconiq. Therefore, it does not seem necessary at the moment to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u30	Mr. Freilich is not present. His question no. 55028544C therefore becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u31	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u32	A new trend in the credit landscape is that of the green or energy loan: the creditor makes a certain sum available to the borrower at a more favourable rate, through a discount or sometimes even interest-free, provided that he obtains a certain energy performance certificate (EPC value) after a certain period of time. In this way, an incentive is given to invest in energy-neutral adjustments. It is also more favourable for borrowers, as they can often borrow cheaper to make such adjustments. The benefits of a green or energy loan are only granted if a certain EPC value is achieved. This gives consumers a big push to build or grow as green as possible. It is an incentive to use the credit for the renovation of the property. The Code of Economic Law provides for the principle of responsible lending. Creditors have a legal obligation to adapt credit amounts to the financial situation of a borrower and to take into account the purpose of the credit. You ask for additional measures to stimulate the renovation of low-energy houses. This is primarily the responsibility of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u33	Any measure aimed at making people more renovated is positive. The main problem is that people are not always addressed to the right people and that it is not always certain that certain measures are being used. In the meantime, however, my group has drawn up its own proposal that consumer loans can also be used to prefinance solar panels and heat pumps. The financing of solar panels and heat pumps remains the main challenge. The renovation of homes has the greatest impact on our climate and yet it turns out to be so difficult to do something with it. Even if the regions are competent, we will certainly try to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u34	Question No 55028690C by Mr Michael Freilich is transformed into a written question. Question No 55028885C by Mrs Vicky Reynaert is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u35	Mr President, Minister, in 2018 Sweden asked for lead to be included in the European REACH Regulation which governs the production and use of chemicals in European industry. The ban on lead has therefore become the rule. Recently, the European Chemicals Agency has also recommended doing so. This perspective worries the craftsmen of the stained glass of our country, but also of several of our European neighbours, who have ancestral know-how dating back to the Middle Ages which we obviously need to preserve. A ban would not only be an obstacle to new creations, but also an impossibility of restoring existing stained glass windows, which are an integral part of our architectural and cultural heritage. In fact, we have some in our Parliament. While it is announced that permits may be issued, there is no guarantee at this time that these licences will be available from a financial and administrative point of view for stained glass workshops generally of small size. Since there are currently no viable substitutes for lead in stained glass windows, these workshops will simply be condemned. Minister, how do you respond to the concerns of the Belgian stained glass sector? Do you recognize that their fears are well-founded? Have you ever consulted with representatives of the sector? Have you identified all the sectors, in addition to that of stained glass, that could be impacted by this measure? What position do you intend to defend in the Council regarding the inclusion of lead in the list in Annex XIV of the relevant European Regulation? If I hear the ecological and health argument, do you think that the impact of this measure can be disproportionate to certain sectors such as stained glass? How can we guarantee, in the event of a general ban on lead, that Belgian stained glass shops are preserved from disproportionate financial and administrative constraints in order to obtain a derogation from this prohibition? Don't you think that the absence of a stained glass diploma will make it more complicated to issue specific authorisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u36	Mr President, Mr De Smet, let me first thank you for your patience. Like my administration, I am, of course, aware of the problems and the impact that the inclusion of lead in the list of substances subject to authorisation may have on this sector and on all other sectors that use lead. I am thinking in particular of its use in batteries, ammunition, fishing equipment and electronics. Of course, the stained glass sector is at the forefront of potentially affected sectors. My administration has already contacted the stakeholders who could be affected by this measure, in line with the REACH Committee within Belgium. However, it should be stressed that the final opinion on the inclusion of lead in the list of substances subject to authorisation has not yet been approved by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). It is only after approval of the final opinion of the Commission that the European Commission may draw up a proposal in which it may, without being obliged to do so, take into account the socio-economic aspects related to this issue. As soon as the Commission proposal is available, the partners of the Belgian REACH Cooperation Agreement, of which my administrations are members, will take a position on the inclusion of lead in the list of substances subject to authorisation or not. At this stage, we cannot anticipate the discussions yet. The proposal is not expected until September, or even December, and it is not certain that lead will actually be proposed for inclusion in the list of substances subject to authorisation. The Commission is aware of the impact this measure may have on the restoration of stained glass windows and many other uses of lead. In addition, as part of the Belgium Builds Back Circular project, I planned to launch a call for projects next year with an amount of EUR 12 million. These means will aim to finance organisations that develop production processes using alternatives that are less harmful to health and the environment to hazardous chemicals in the products we consume. These could be, for example, processes for producing stained glass windows that do not use lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u37	Minister, thank you for your clear and comprehensive answer. We will follow up on this issue in September and December. Thank you in advance, in assessing the Commission's proposals that you might have to take, to ensure that we find alternatives that preserve this ancestral know-how that we have had since the Middle Ages. It is a whole sector that relies on your efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u38	Minister, at a time when companies are faced with higher production costs, they can do two things. They can increase the price of the product, or they can reduce the quantity of packaging to keep the price more or less constant. As we know, manufacturers like to unpack when there is more in the packaging, for example when the customer gets ten percent free. But at a time when packaging is being reduced because production costs are being faced, this is often not the case. Then the actual price increase is more or less disguised, because the consumer will not notice this in practice and also does not know how much should initially be in a particular package. In itself, I do not think that one can be against shrinkage inflation, provided that it is done in a transparent way and the consumer is aware of it. If we look at the determination of inflation in the commodity basket, to what extent will the quantity of such packaging be taken? If we are faced with a shrinking inflation that keeps prices stable and does not include this in the basket that determines inflation, then we actually underestimate the level of inflation. That is why I was wondering to what extent this was taken into account. If that is not the case, how big is the effect on current measured inflation? Is the inflation rate being corrected? Finally, I would have liked to know whether the FPS Economy has figures on the scale to which shrinkage inflation is applied. It is discussed on a regular basis, but how wide is it currently being applied by producers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u39	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, Statbel calculates the consumer price index, which is the basis for official inflation measurement in Belgium. The calculation of the consumer price index shall, inter alia, systematically take into account quantity adjustments, weight, volume, pieces and when a product disappears from the market and a replacement product comes onto the market with a different quantity of packaging. The prices of the old product and the new product are converted into a standardised quantity. If a product goes from 300 grams to 250 grams and the price remains unchanged, this will result in an increase of 20%. Consequently, the answer to the subsequent question of whether consumers are being fooled when measuring inflation is negative. Inflation rates should not be corrected, given that the calculation of inflation takes direct account of volume adjustments of consumer goods. This means that total inflation reflects, among other things, shrinking inflation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u40	Minister, it is good to hear that weight, pieces, content and so on are taken into account in determining inflation with commodity baskets and so on. That's very interesting. In a number of cases, it may be interesting for the consumer because in this way one can continue to buy a certain variety of products without, by definition, making the shopping cart more expensive. However, many consumers do not know this. If 50 grams less is put into a jar of chocolate, consumers do not know. They don't know what it was originally. The producers should be more transparent about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u41	Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for your question. Each insurance undertaking shall decide whether or not it applies this indexation, provided that this possibility is provided for in the insurance contracts. The figures of the harmonised consumer price index, as calculated by Statbel, show that the premium for fire insurance increased by an average of 4% annually between 2018 and 2021. In April 2022, the premium for fire insurance was on average 7% more expensive than in April 2021. In the period 2018-2022, increases in premiums appear to be almost exclusively due to adjustments based on the ABEX index. I've had the Prize Observatory conduct a study on this subject. The preliminary results seem to indicate that consumer mobility should be facilitated by facilitating the withdrawal of such insurance. In addition, I commissioned the FSMA to develop a first comparison tool for insurance. It's about family insurance. On the basis of a first project, the FSMA started discussions with the sector to develop and place that tool online, at the latest in the first trimester of 2023, taking into account the necessary IT developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u42	Minister, I understand from your reply that the increase in the fire insurance premium is mainly due to the adjustment of the ABEX index. I think it is positive that you indicated that consideration should be given to how fire insurance can be more easily terminated. The N-VA already made a proposal in this committee to be able to cancel car insurance more easily. After all, we often saw that consumers who gave up their insurance were surprised when it turned out that their old insurance had not yet been cancelled. Either they paid a double premium, or there was a short period in which they were not covered. Unfortunately, the majority did not support that proposal, but you can certainly find it in the committee's reports. We thought it was a good proposal. A good approach must also be sought for fire insurance in order to avoid a gap or a double premium. It is often large sums. As far as the comparison module is concerned, I would have asked you for an update. You said you're mostly concerned with family insurance right now. I understand that we can expect the first results in the first trimester of 2023. That is certainly a good first step. However, when it comes to insurance, we must always bear in mind that the offer, or the package covered by insurance, is not always the same. So we have to be careful that we are always talking about the same standard packages. The consumer must then decide which extras he or she wants to add. We will continue to follow up on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u43	Mr. Freilich is absent. His question no. 55029004C therefore becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u44	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u45	Since 2017, the FPS Economy has received 117 notifications to date regarding Keyware through its hotline. In particular, 55 notifications were made in 2017, 18 in 2018, 10 in 2019, 15 in 2020, 15 in 2021 and to date 3 in 2022. This is important since the new b2b legislation has only been applicable since 1 September 2019, as regards unfair market practices, and since 1 December 2020, as regards unlawful terms. That last date is particularly important for your question, as the unlawful contractual terms apply only to contracts concluded, renewed or amended after 1 December 2020. The new b2b-cell of the Economic Inspectorate monitors and analyzes reports from after that data and takes action, where necessary. No sanctioning measures have yet been taken. You say you were contacted by an entrepreneur who had respected the two-month legal notice period. However, only for the rental of a payment terminal there does not seem to be a statutory two-month notice period since this is not a payment service. As far as b2b relations are concerned, there is no fixed legal term and contract freedom applies. Subject to evidence to the contrary, it is an unlawful clause to automatically renew or renew a fixed-term contract without giving a reasonable notice of notice. Once again, there is an exception for financial services. This is a clause on the so-called "grey list', which allows counter evidence, as opposed to terms on the "black list', which are always unlawful. The interpretation of what is reasonable then comes finally to the courts and courts. I will examine whether it is appropriate to seek advice from the special advisory committee on unfair terms and conditions in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for examining the possibility of this further. After all, it cannot be the intention for people who retire to remain attached to it in such a way. It needs to be reviewed, so that it remains reasonable for those people as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u47	Until recently, Minister, the possibilities of banning or more stringent regulation of house-to-house sales of energy contracts have been very limited. The transposition that we have just approved in plenary makes more possible. You know that my group considers this to be particularly important. We had also tabled a bill banning practices. After the Energy Ombudsman repeatedly indicated in annual reports that these practices are often aggressive or misleading. Especially now, in times of uncertainty in the energy market, practice is increasingly being used. Some energy suppliers even literally include this in their annual report and report that they want to generate more revenue through this practice. You are working on a KB to put a stop to this and had submitted four slopes for advice. The first is to extend the withdrawal period from 14 to 30 days. The second is an opt-in system by sticking a sticker to the mailbox. The third is to combine an extension of the withdrawal period with the introduction of a validation of the contract. This is an offer and not a contract. Fourthly, we are talking about a ban on the execution of the contract during the withdrawal period. We recently received the CRB's advice on this. They were not really convinced, to put it mildly, of the pistes presented. The first piste they found disproportionate. In the slope of the sticker they saw a problem to prove this. After all, what if someone sticks a sticker first and then rings the doorbell? The third track ensures that no fixed rate contracts would be offered. The latter saw little added value. Rather, they are looking at an adaptation of the consumer agreement and a code of conduct. Your colleague, Secretary of State De Bleeker, said here in committee last week that the slopes of the sticker, the withdrawal period and the ban would in any case have already been abandoned. Can you confirm that it is? Do you see a solution in the waiting period of 14 days? After all, it's left. I myself am not in favour of the code of conduct, because it is more difficult to enforce. Do you think they're an option? The survey on the energy consumer agreement has been completed. What improvements do you see there?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, the omnibus directive expressly states that no general ban on door-to-door sales can be imposed and no sector can be excluded from this sales technique. Member States can only take measures to address door-to-door sales in relation to certain misleading or aggressive commercial practices. The slopes on the introduction of self-adhesive stickers, the extension of the withdrawal period and the prohibition of immediate execution during the withdrawal period have indeed left the Central Council for Business in the meantime, following the advice of the Supreme Council for Self-employed Persons, SMEs and the Special Advisory Committee on Consumption. The purpose of the 14-day waiting period is to tackle aggressive practices that put pressure on consumers to conclude an energy contract immediately and in the presence of the company, often more detrimentally. The waiting period should allow the consumer to carry out an in-depth examination of the proposal offered and to decide on the proposal on the basis of all available information. Only after the expiry of this waiting period may the company be allowed to visit the consumer again, in order to conclude a contract at that time. The possibility of introducing a code of conduct for these sales techniques was discussed with my colleagues the Minister of Energy, Tinne Van der Straeten, and the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, Eva De Bleeker, but is abandoned. With regard to the state of play of the new consumer agreement, I would refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Energy, Tinne Van der Straeten, who is in charge of the work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u49	Minister, I am glad to hear that there is still one track on the table that can be further developed and that this is not the code of conduct. In other sectors, we often see that this does not happen very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u50	Minister, we can all see, including through the press, that we are dealing with a gas crisis at European level. Gas prices remain at a particularly high level and that affects not only the families, but also our companies. A further increase in gas prices or possibly even a reduction in gas volumes can potentially have a major impact on both the daily lives of people and economic activity. Energy shortages can also lead to economic stagnation. In view of this situation, Germany has meanwhile prepared an emergency plan for if the gas supply situation deteriorates further. The German Minister for Economic Affairs has already announced that the alarm phase was being scaled up, in the meantime a few weeks ago, because it is dared to assume that Russia could completely shut down the gas supply. I understand very well that we are only 4% to 6% dependent on gas from Russia. However, you know that the gas market is an international market, which also determines the prices in our country. Minister, what impact do you expect of the European gas shortage on our economy? How broad do you see this problem? In the short term, you will not see an economic crisis, but will it increase the risk of an economic crisis? What measures have you taken to reduce the negative impact of the European gas deficit on our economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u51	Mr Van Lommel, since June 2021 we have seen a sharp acceleration in the rise in natural gas prices on European markets. The main reason for this price increase is the reduction of Russian gas flows to Europe. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has raised gas prices on European markets. They reached a peak on March 7, 2022, with prices up to 350 euros per megawatt hour. Given that Russian gas flows remained at pre-invasion levels, prices gradually decreased before increasing significantly again due to the reduction of Russian gas flows in mid-June 2022. Gas prices currently vary between 120 and 150 euros per megawatt hour. Within the total consumption basket energy has a weight of almost 11 %. More specifically, the share of natural gas is 1.8 % and that of electricity at 2.7 %. The economic system is heavily dependent on energy. In the survey conducted by the National Bank in April this year, energy prices represented an average of 11% of their input costs. The security of gas supply is monitored daily by the FPS Economy, in close cooperation with transport manager Fluxys and the European partners. The contingency plan for security of gas supply, in line with European regulations, has recently been updated. The FPS Economy has recently organized a survey of the industry in order to further refine the emergency plan for natural gas, in order to better match the reality of the Belgian economy and the associated natural gas consumption. After analysing this information, the current contingency plan will be adapted to strengthen the Belgian security of supply for the winter period 2022-2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u52	Minister, it is of course a good thing that you monitor the European gas shortage and assess its impact on this country. I believe that we will have to keep a close eye on it in the coming weeks and months. If there is an effective gas shortage in Germany, in Italy or anywhere else, it will have an impact on the economy in this country anyway. We must certainly try to monitor these economic consequences. It's all about supply and demand anyway. I follow the TTF index for natural gas every day. Before we come to a reasonable price again, according to the predictions we are already in the summer of 2025. Let us hope that prices will fall much sooner and above all that there will be no shortages in winter. Let us hope that winters will not be too harsh. We often look at the consumption of natural gas by families, but companies obviously also need natural gas. If the farms are to be rationed, this will have extremely serious economic consequences. Anyway, I hear you're following up on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u53	Minister, the economic ministers of 15 Member States have written to the European Commission to speed up the conclusion of trade agreements with countries outside the European Community and thus to secure long-term economic growth. They argue that the European Union is taking too long to conclude international agreements, which continues to lead to economic delays. The letter was signed by Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and Portugal, but Belgium is not specifically a co-signatory of the letter. How do you feel about the letter and its content? Why did you choose not to sign the letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u54	Mr Van Lommel, the draft letter from the 15 Member States on future trade agreements, coordinated by Sweden, was the subject of an intra-Belgian consultation procedure. In the context of the procedure, several entities indicated that they could not support the co-signatory of the letter by Belgium. I agree with that refusal because I believe that the letter lacks important elements. The letter to the EU Trade Commissioner, Mr Dombrovskis, should draw his attention to the priorities of European trade policy, which should be developed in the coming months. In particular, the signatory Member States want the European Union to make rapid progress in the negotiations on the entry into force of bilateral and regional trade agreements. Its aim is to strengthen its credibility and economic interests, as well as to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development objectives. Although the federal government supports an ambitious European strategy for foreign trade, the fact that certain essential principles are not sufficiently highlighted in the letter has prevented Belgium from joining the initiative. According to the government agreement, Belgium will only accept new trade and investment agreements if high social standards and environmental standards are applicable and binding. Before progress can be made on the conclusion and entry into force of new trade agreements, it seems essential to conclude the ongoing review of the provisions on trade and sustainable development. This exercise has recently reached an important stage with the publication on 22 June 2022 of the European Commission's new plan to strengthen the contribution of the European Union's trade agreements to the protection of the climate, the environment and the rights of workers in the world. Finally, the reaction to the war in Ukraine must not be limited to intensifying the conclusion of new trade agreements to diversify the EU's sources of supply, but must also encourage us to strengthen our production capacity in the EU itself and to reduce our dependence on third countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u55	Minister, you have given a good reason why you did not sign the letter. It is not because we are asking the question that we are the great advocates of everything related to trade agreements. For us, trade agreements from Europe, if they are made on the basis of voluntary cooperation, and they are certainly not imposed on us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u56	Minister, the Belgian competition authority should have had a new chairman for a long time. The mandate of the current president of the BMA expired in 2019. The follow-up procedure has been delayed over time, which first and foremost had to do with the fall of the Michel administration in 2018. There was then a second round of selection, which remained without result, because a candidate had objected. In the end, two candidates remained in a third round. It is up to the government to designate someone now. When can we expect a decision on the designation of the successor? In the meantime, we are already talking about 2019, when the current President's mandate expired. Do you think it should automatically become the candidate with the best score? What legal conditions should the selected candidate fulfil?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u57	Thank you, Mr Van Lommel, for your question. Indeed, the mandate of President of the Belgian Competition Authority should have been extended from 20 September 2019. This is the third call for candidates to appoint the chairman. The jury did not rank any suitable candidate for the first call for applications launched under the previous government. The second call for applications, including by the previous government, was declared invalid by the Council of State because it provided for a so-called development buffer. The jury of the third call for applications has ranked two suitable applications. I believe that the candidate best placed by the jury should be selected for the post. However, there is a discussion about the language regime to which the highest ranked candidate by the jury belongs. This candidate has a Dutch-speaking university degree, a certificate of bilingualism Article 7 and is registered as French-speaking in the procedure. There is now a debate on whether or not he can be appointed as a French speaker for this mandate. Hopefully there will soon be an agreement on the appointment of the next President of the Belgian Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u58	You've outlined the chronology of the entire file. In the end, you said that there is actually a candidate from Brussels. However, you stopped there somewhere. You forgot to mention why that person, who was ultimately the best on the bus, has still not been appointed. Of course, that has to do with the fact that this is a political appointment. Your coalition partner MR is quite difficult about the appointment, while this candidate is a bilingual Brusselser with a Dutch-language law degree. However, the MR chairman considers him, on the basis of his diploma, a Dutch language. That is particularly regrettable and it is strange that this should be done in this way. However, we also know why this is happening. Of course, the MR already has someone in mind, an ex-cabintard that they would like to put forward. That cannot be the intention, Minister. Political appointments are already a particularly serious problem in this country. If there is even disagreement about this and if there are games to be played within the government, at the expense of the qualities of the best candidate, it will not benefit the population. Hopefully that best candidate will be appointed as soon as possible. There can't be any argument about that. Hopefully, your coalition partner will also see that quality goes beyond appointments of one's own political background.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u59	In the meantime, we see almost every city, and also in the cores of the larger municipalities, more and more physical shops disappear, both in Flanders and Brussels. In the past this had to do with the fact that more and more shops started to group in the outskirts. Then we had to deal with the corona pandemic and the increased success of e-commerce. So we see that many centres are faced with empty spaces, even though they often try to give other destinations to these shopping premises, for example by making them into homes or offices. I know that you share that competence, Minister, but I was still wondering how you view this evolution. Do you think there's a need for a corrective policy? Can the federal government do anything about this? Do you think it is desirable to provide local delivery depots with an emission-free fleet for delivery services?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u60	Indeed, as Minister of Economy, I am sorry that many commercial premises have not yet received new exploitation or destination. However, the approach to emptiness is either regional or local. An option to re-vote vacant buildings is to effectively set them up as a delivery depot for delivery services, as you suggest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u61	It is true that the Communities bear part of the responsibility for this. Nevertheless, I think we should try everything we can to do with this. I can still follow the shift towards the periphery, which has gained in importance for e-commerce as well. However, this means that the retail trade, as we used to know it, is completely lost. I'm sorry to hear that. We should, however, cherish it. Although this is partly a matter for the Länder, I hope that you will also continue to examine how you can contribute from the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u62	Minister, since July 1, 2022, traders have been obliged to provide an electronic means of payment. Payment patterns have changed significantly since the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic and it is true that there are more people who pay electronically in 2022 than at the beginning of 2020. However, TestAchats carried out a study of 1,300 Belgians which shows that three out of four consumers believe that a trader should not be able to refuse cash. The association asks the legislator to clearly recall the obligation for traders to accept payments in cash. In more and more shops, cashless stickers are flourishing and it is no longer possible to pay in cash, whereas it is the only legal means of payment in Belgium, which has been recently recalled by the European Central Bank. Minister, will you remind merchants of the obligation to allow payment in cash? What is the risk of a trader refusing to pay in cash?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u63	Mr D'Amico, I believe it is essential to promote electronic payment, as I have already said in this committee, but I also want to make sure that the transition does not take place at the expense of the most vulnerable people. The choice of payment method must be guaranteed as long as the digital divide exists in our country. Some people are simply not able to pay electronically. Euro banknotes and coins are always the only ones to have legal tender in our country and in the euro area. This is the result of many European texts and means that a consumer must always be able to make discharge payments with euro banknotes and coins, unless he agrees to use another method of payment, which the beneficiary may propose to him. This implies, in practice, that companies cannot refuse cash payments when the consumer does not wish to use another means of payment. This principle must be assessed in a reasonable manner and is not an absolute principle. Restrictions on cash payments may be justified on grounds of public policy, for example, relating to security, crime control or the public interest, in order to ensure an effective organisation of payments in society. One example is the explicit restriction on the use of species as derived from the anti-money laundering law. Consideration must also be given to the circumstances of the transaction. Indeed, it is not reasonably possible to pay in cash for online transactions, for example. Second, there is the principle of good faith that the nominal value of the banknotes and coins offered must be proportionate to the amount to be paid. This means that a company will be able to refuse a cash payment when the consumer submits a ticket in an amount that is significantly higher than the amount to be paid. However, I will ask the SPF Economy to communicate these basic principles to the traders. This year, the Economic Inspectorate received 51 notifications of refusal of payment per cash. However, since this is an obligation under European law for which the economic law supervisory authority, DG Economic Inspection, is not designated, it cannot intervene directly. A bill providing for the obligation to accept a cash payment in the Code of Economic Law has not been retained by the government. However, I will continue to monitor developments and propose new measures to the government, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. As the Test Purchases study clearly demonstrates, Belgians are really attached to the cash payment. I'm one of those. We're eagerly waiting for your ticket distributor law because one doesn't go without the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u65	Minister, every year Belgium, like all the Member States of the UN, with the exception of the United States and Israel, condemns in the General Assembly the American blockade against Cuba over the past sixty years. At the level of European legislation, Council Regulation No 2271/96 of 22 November 1996, known as the Blockage Act, establishes that companies are not allowed to apply American laws imposing sanctions against, inter alia, Cuba. On the basis of this regulation, the Belgian law of 2 May 2019 provides for fines for offenders. For legal persons, this is a minimum of EUR 10 000 and a maximum of 10% of the annual net turnover. Several Belgian banking institutions in Belgium continue to violate this Belgian and European legislation. In June 2021, for example, BNP Paribas Fortis suddenly decided to end its customer relationship with an NGO that has been developing solidarity work with Cuba for years. In January 2022, the European Banking Authority concluded that banks unjustifiably exclude transactions with Cuba. The following month, the National Bank of Belgium issued a circular along the same lines. On 21 December 2021, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a judgment in one case in Germany confirming that the blocking law prohibits economic operators from following the sanctions of a third country. Minister, section 231 of the Act of May 2, 2019 states that "the competent minister may (...) impose an administrative fine on the offender(s). Why don't you apply such a fine to Belgian banking institutions violating Belgian and European legislation? Since the Belgian state is an important shareholder of BNP Paribas, will you require the directors appointed by the Belgian government to intervene on the board of directors to ensure that the bank complies with the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u66	Mr President, I am determined to use all the instruments at my disposal to protect the economic activities and legitimate investments of all our citizens and businesses in Cuba as well as our NGOs. The general administration of the Treasury of the FPS Finances and the FPS Economy are the competent authorities to ensure compliance with the obligations of European Regulation No 2271/96. As a reminder, this regulation makes judgments rendered in the United States under Title III of the Helms-Burton Act inapplicable in Europe. The FPS Foreign Affairs shall be designated as the competent authority for the transmission to the European Commission of information relevant to the application of the Regulation. The division of competencies between the FPS Economy and the general administration of the FPS Finance Treasury has not yet been established, but I have instructed my services to make the necessary contacts to remedy this. For the rest, it is not for me to comment on the particular case of the commercial relationship between the NGO that you mentioned and the bank BNP Paribas Fortis, but as you recalled, Belgium unreservedly and firmly condemns the American blockade against Cuba. A Belgian company applying the Helms-Burton Act of 1996 must be held responsible and punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u67	Minister, thank you for that clarification. Let the FPS Finance put the package to punish those who do not comply with the law!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u68	Mr Minister, a citizen contacted us at the end of May because his bank account had been blocked. He found out when he went shopping, then contacted his bank, which confirmed that all his accounts had been blocked, and told him that a seizure had been imposed. On the other hand, the bank could not communicate to him the issuer of the seizure. After some research, he found the cause: a balance of around 173 euros linked to the income tax of natural persons, which he had not paid. This man then found himself completely lost in the face of the steps he had to take to regain access to his accounts. Completely lost also because he had not received any notification warning that his accounts would be blocked: no recommendation, no text, no email, no call, nothing at all! From day to day, he could no longer shop, nor face a medical emergency. This gentleman fully acknowledges that he should have paid this tax and that he had the time to do so. The reason for his delay - this balance has since been paid - is that he works as an independent and that his activity has been severely reduced since the pandemic. So he had to choose between eating or paying his bills. Minister, do you find this measure proportionate? Do you think we're just blocking all accounts of a person with an outstanding debt of 173 euros? How is it that this person was not notified before the blocking of his accounts? How many people are affected by such blockages or seizures and for how long are these bank account blockages taking place on average?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u69	Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that a minister cannot speak or speak in personal or individual cases. I therefore find it difficult to provide you with information in response to the questions asked or to draw the consequences of a specific case of account blocking for tax reasons. In any event, the consumer always has the means to challenge the blocking of his bank accounts, either by filing a declaration with his bank or by lodging a complaint with the Umbudsfin and/or the Economic Inspectorate. At present, I do not have information on the number of people affected by a bank account blockage or on the period of blockage of these accounts. I can possibly find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u70	Minister, thank you. We'll give that person some advice. I also expect the answers you can give me in the days or weeks to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u71	Minister, a report from RTL was devoted to the purchase of real estate in disguised auctions a few weeks ago. Since the pandemic, more and more advertisements are inviting applicants to buy a real estate to make an offer from a certain amount rather than asking for a fixed price. A real estate agent explained to us in the report that the sellers are trying to maximize the selling price, and that it is quite natural. However, the practice of disguised auctions is illegal, auctions must be organised in a public manner and under the cover of a notary, on the basis of a specification shared with all the candidates. The journalist concludes by saying: "Mortgage rates go up, goods for sale multiply, the balance of power between buyers and sellers should soon be rebalancing. Specialists expect "doing offer" to gradually disappear from classified sites." Minister, can you clarify the situation regarding the legal or illegality of the term "offer" with respect to the sale of real property? Is it normal that it is the market that regulates the presence of this mention in real property listings for sale?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u72	Thank you, Congressman. The price to be agreed for real estate is indeed supply- and demand-driven, but it is not the market that determines how to proceed exclusively. In fact, a real estate agent who provides an intermediation service for the sale of a real estate, as a professional, has an obligation to inform about this property. It is obliged to comply with both the Code of Economic Law and the ethical rules applicable to it, both in its relations with its client and with third parties. It is true that public auctions are reserved for notaries. It is not, however, forbidden to propose that the consumer give a price. This practice is not in itself illegal, since offers will be communicated by the real estate agent to the seller, who will choose whom he wishes to sell his property, whether it is to the highest bidder or not. I can only intervene in cases where the real estate agent does not respect the interests of the consumer, i.e. the candidate buyer, and/or engage in misleading or aggressive commercial practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u74	Mr. Secretary, earlier this week, the whole story behind the car rental companies came out. That's what made me frown the eyebrows. If you want to use a rental car today, you can consult different websites that compare the offers and prices of different car rental companies. The European Commission has now carried out a sample. This shows that most of these websites are in breach of European law. Among other things, there is a lack of crucial information on the exact rental conditions and the total cost. Nor is it always stated what is covered by compulsory insurance. I actually understand that myself. I have seen such a situation several times in the past, when I made a price comparison of rental companies. Then one often sees that a particular company is the cheapest off, until one clicks further. Only then will it be seen which hidden costs will be added. Those comparison tools really don't work very well. That is why I would have liked to know if the FPS Economy has received any complaints about this. As a minister, how strongly do you estimate this problem in our country? In the meantime, have controls been carried out? Do you know about relevant website managers from our country? In the meantime, have you started any procedures? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u75	Mr Van Lommel, the Economic Inspectorate received twenty reports on the rental and leasing of passenger cars and light vans through its hotline in 2021. This year, the Economic Inspectorate has received ten notifications to date. Certain aspects of car rental were already examined in 2019 by the European CPC network, the European Consumer Protection Cooperation, of which the Belgian Economic Inspection is part. Back then, the focus was on the car rental company itself. Following a study by the European Commission in 2021 that car rental intermediaries, such as price comparison, have similar problems, it was decided to organise a minisweep to these intermediaries this year. The Economic Inspectorate participated in the action together with the consumer authorities of ten other European countries. In doing so, it checked the information obligations of the five largest pricecomparisons operating in Belgium. None of these companies are Belgian. The investigations are ongoing. Depending on the nature of the infringements detected, the Economic Inspection will either contact the undertaking concerned itself, send a request to the Member State concerned or to the third country concerned, or send an alert within the CPC network when a serious infringement has been detected in several countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u76	Minister, it is good that our country is actively involved in this. After all, we must dare to limit such practices, because it is actually a consumer scam. The consumer encounters a selection on a particular website and concludes that it is the cheapest option for him. However, when it continues, it does not appear to be as cheap as it is claimed. I can therefore only hope that it will be possible to take action if it is established that these practices are also taking place in our country. The consumer must be protected at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u77	Minister, if you want to switch to another mobile operator and transfer your mobile phone number, that is no longer a problem today. By analogy, Test Purchase and the European consumer organisation argue to examine whether a bank account number can be transferred. A Belgian account number is composed of BE, two digits and then a prefix of three digits, which is linked to a banking institution. Of course, this must also be looked at at at European level, but it must be possible, especially in our country, to check whether a bank account number can be taken to another bank. Has this government taken any initiative to do so? Do you support the initiative of Test Purchase? Bank account numbers are now linked to a specific banking institution. Do you consider it practically feasible to transfer account numbers to other banking institutions? If you had considered that, have you already consulted with the sector or are you planning to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u78	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, I support this initiative, provided that it takes into account, among other things, technical feasibility and costs. This is a matter that needs to be dealt with first and foremost at European level. The administration is closely monitoring possible European developments. In the context of the revision of the Payment Account Directive, the European Commission should also assess the costs and benefits of an EU-wide number portability. In particular, the three-digit bank code, also referred to as the protocol number, is a problem for the transfer of account numbers between institutions. Any institution wishing to offer its clients a Belgian account must apply to the Secretariat of the National Bank for a protocol number. Provided that it meets the conditions, the institution is assigned a three-digit number so that it can recognise its clients' accounts by the IBAN BE numbers, which contain these three digits. Thanks to that unique protocol number, the other institutions can verify which institution each account identified by an IBAN BE number has been opened at. A transfer of account numbers between institutions would no longer be the case. The transfer of account numbers, including the protocol number, between institutions would therefore require major adjustments to banks' IT systems and payment systems. However, it is an important European initiative to promote the change of bank by consumers. This would benefit competition and the price-quality ratio in banking services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic848x.u79	Minister, I am pleased that you wish to support this initiative, provided it is technically feasible. The tension is now between the consumer and the practical feasibility. It will also depend on the ICT that should make this possible. Prefix in particular can indeed be a problem. However, I do not think we should wait for a European initiative. We could already work on linking databases in our country and do something about the problem of the prefix. I'm glad you're supporting the initiative. I hope that we will be able to observe your commitment to this in the coming period.
