ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u1	Professor Van Gucht has already expanded the analysis of the figures. So I won't repeat it. By the way, the numbers are evolving every day. So I do not think it would be useful to repeat what we have just done. I would like to focus on some of my questions that still apply. After all, many of my questions have already been answered by Mr Van Gucht. What measures do you provide for to control the figures? What is the timeline for that if any? Are the hospitals sufficiently prepared to cope with any new wave, to what extent can we speak of a new wave, as shown by the figures? Are you considering the reintroduction of the mandatory use of the mouth mask if the evolution in the figures continues? What are the parameters for this, if any? Are you considering reintroducing the CST? What are the parameters for that? As a result, I asked you a second question, the sub-questions of which were partly answered by Mr Van Gucht. What evolution do you take into account for the autumn? To what extent is a mandatory vaccination in the care of the current vaccines still useful, given the study I quoted in my question and the fact that in the case of the subvariant BA.5 two weeks after booster vaccination, levels of antibodies would have fallen by a factor of 21, according to that study?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u2	Minister, I too will be brief. We have received a detailed explanation from Professor Van Gucht. However, he pointed out that it is important that people have received a third shot. The fourth shot will also be important, especially in the autumn, when new waves would be offered. I would have liked to hear from you whether the personal invitation for the 80-plussers in Wallonia and Brussels has already left. During the plenary session and also in an interview in the press, you mentioned this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u3	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u4	Minister, you stated in the Journal that a personal invitation would be sent to the 80-plussers. So I would have liked to know if that letter had already been sent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u5	Minister, I am going to ask my questions directly, as the issue has been raised at length and broadly earlier. With regard to the planned vaccination campaign, what places of vaccination will be planned for the different categories of persons? It seems that no convention will be sent to the 18-50 year olds, but they will still be able to receive the second booster. What are the reasons for this? What about under-18 vaccination today? We don't talk to her. What are the current recommendations in this regard? Are there also plans for a booster for this category of the population? Finally, what vaccines will be used in this new campaign? Could new vaccines be included? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u6	Mr Minister, indeed Dr Van Gucht has just explained to us that more than 95% of the contamination in Belgium today is due to new sub-variants BA4 and BA5. These different strains related to Omicron are partly immune to the immunity and protection of current vaccines and exposure to previous variants, which makes it easier to proliferate, although fortunately, its impact on intensive care and death remains low, in any case for the time being. This clearly demonstrates the vaccine effectiveness, which remains high, especially against the serious consequences caused by omicron. Therefore, in its opinion, the Supreme Council of Health recommends that all risk groups be vaccinated with an additional booster by the end of September 2022. We know that the Interdepartmental Conference on Health has met in this regard and that it has decided on a vaccination schedule which will start well in early September, or even in mid-September, with a pro-active invitation to these risk groups as a priority. In addition, Dr. Van Gucht also drew our attention to the need to develop vaccines that offer the widest possible protection by inserting as many different strains as possible, in order to maximize our immunity. My questions finally match those of my colleagues. What exactly do you mean by "pro-active invitation to vaccination"? Why wait until early September, or even mid-September, to invite these target groups to be vaccinated, since the Higher Health Council recommended that the additional recall be made by the end of September 2022 and not from September 2022? What infrastructure will this new vaccination campaign take place within? Will vaccination be carried out in centres dedicated to vaccination, in pharmacies, since they are now legally competent? Is it possible to pair this vaccine booster against covid-19 with that of influenza? What intervals will be suggested between different doses? What is the state of development of vaccines adapted to the new Omicron variants or, at least, vaccines that would bring together several variants of the virus? Does our country intend to make further reservations of these vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u7	Madam President, Minister, allow me to highlight a few aspects! First, for several weeks, I have been asking you to give access to vaccination not only to people over 80 years of age and to severe immunocompromised people, but also to people over 60 years of age, on the basis of a doctor's opinion. Some of them suffer from chronic diseases and are therefore at risk for severe covids. It was clearly recommended by EMA. You referred the matter back to September. However, it is now that these people must be able to be vaccinated. I therefore hope that you will work in this direction. Secondly, I ask you to urge the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region to allow access to the second booster. Indeed, it is not normal for Wallonia to have a second booster rate of only 2.95% for those over the age of 85. It is also not normal that in Brussels this rate is only 4.05 % for those over the age of 85. A lot of older people have contacted me. Many feel that they do not have access to this second booster simply because they have not received the same information and invitation as before. Let me tell you here that regional ministers regularly express themselves in the press by limiting the second booster to people in nursing homes and to serious immunocompromised patients. In other words, people over 80 years of age who live at home have repeatedly received the message that they were not among those who could receive the second booster. I therefore ask you to urge the regional ministers to adjust their communication correctly. External people go and come to the rest homes. It's a place at risk. As with hospitals, all outsiders should be asked to wear the mask and to insist on ventilation and purification. More than 90% of contamination occurs in a closed environment and the best weapon to spend the fall and winter is to have indoor air quality similar to outdoor air quality. At the operational level, there is nowhere on this subject in public places and schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u8	Mr Minister, my first question concerns the testing strategy. Mr Van Gucht said just now that the monitoring practices will be strengthened and will not only work in winter. That is positive news, but overall, the testing strategy remains rather unfailing. Very many PCR tests are still being performed. That's a lot of money. The question is whether that is necessary. A third of the tests are positive. That also means that there are a lot of infections under the radar. We are still waiting for a long-term testing strategy. Now it's a bit of a mess. Some of them only do self-tests. Others continue to do PCR tests, which are very expensive. Secondly, what is the role of the contact search today? What about that? My next question is about vaccinations. We have heard some interesting points about the effect and purpose of the booster. The effect is strongest in the first three months of infection. After three months, it decreases gradually. Against serious illness and hospitalisation, there is still a substantial effect. The main objective of the autumn campaign will not be to prevent infection, but to protect vulnerable people. How do you reconcile this with the plans to oblige the care staff to take a booster and all repeat doses? At least that's what this law says. How will the campaign go for this limited number of people through the vaccination centres? What is the role of the general practitioners and pharmacists in this? My final question is about the savings at Sciensano. Mr Van Gucht also mentioned it. Sciensano is apparently completely in saving mode, except for a number of specific projects. That is quite a problem, Minister. How do you explain this? Haven't there been any lessons learned from the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u9	Colleagues, one of the questions I received in preparing this topical debate asked whether we are dealing with a seventh wave. I think the answer is obvious. We're going through a seventh wave. This is a seventh contagion wave with COVID-19. That can be disappointing, because we all hope we can get rid of it. But we're not there yet. At the same time, the virus always causes surprises and strangers. Steven Van Gucht explained that very clearly here. As the seventh wave now shows, it is one in which many people are infected and quite a few people end up in hospital. Often these are vulnerable people, elderly people, people with underlying diseases, people with immunity problems. Fortunately, we see far fewer people moving on to intensive care. We draw some hope from what we see in other countries, namely that this seventh wave is relatively fast on a plateau and is therefore not an explosive wave. That is also why we do not have to panic about that. We should not go on announcing new measures now. That is not the case today. The seventh wave must make us very vigilant. I must honestly say that on the basis of the intense conversations I have had with our staff and experts over the last few days, I am concerned about what can happen in September. We are now going through a period with nice weather in which people walk out much, but in which there are also much less contacts. In September, there will be a combination of people coming back from abroad, schools reopening, much more intensive contacts, less good weather, with more frequent indoors. Then it might be that in September we will have to deal again with rapidly rising infections. I am not saying that it will, but we have to face the risk very seriously. Whatever it is, we're under a lot of pressure on our hospitals. Staff have been tired for two years fighting the pandemic. Some of these personnel have also fallen out because of fatigue or because of COOVID-19. By the way, this is not only happening in hospitals, but also in general practitioners, fighting this pandemic for two years weighs tremendously. So today we are facing a situation of great pressure on our health care. We really have to show solidarity. Everyone has to do his own. There are also risks, which presupposes vigilance. I will not repeat what Mr Van Gucht said in his very useful speech. It is clear, however, that we will have to keep our finger on the wrist very well. Mr Van Gucht stressed that the vaccines in our stock are working very well against the risk of someone becoming seriously ill and ending up in hospital. The effectiveness of this is enormous. Mr Van Gucht has shown rough figures, but the finer calculations the High Health Council makes for us say that the risk of hospitalization actually falls by 80 to 90% if someone is boosted with the vaccines we have, so the old, original vaccines against the Wuhan tribe. That is a very important point. That is why we say that the existing campaigns must be completed. If there are people who haven't taken a third shot, so no booster yet, they should definitely do it. If there are people who have had an invitation to a fourth shot, they should definitely have it put. In Flanders they are 80-plussers. Throughout Belgium, these are people who have a problem with immunity. There's been some confusion about letters. I didn't say we'd send a (new) letter. I have said that the Länder will send a reminder letter to the group of people with an immunity problem if these people have not responded to the letter they have received. The Länder have told me that it has been sent. That's all I said about sending letters. I'll come back to the upcoming campaigns later. In finishing the current campaign, we call it our spring campaign, or the campaign that has run over the past six months is being sent by the Länder to the people who have an immunity problem and have not had the fourth shot. We call on anyone who hasn't been bossed to get that third shot yet. Flanders has sent letters to the 80-plussers. Those are the facts. So I think there's some confusion in the question you asked. I didn't mention any new letters I would send to 80+. That wasn't said anywhere. I will come back to the campaigns that we will continue to conduct, perhaps the confusion will come from there. Mrs Fonck, it is possible that you emphasised this by saying that in Flanders it was a pity that invitations were sent to people aged 80 and over. The campaigns are different in Wallonia and Brussels. We have opened up the possibility without, however, inviting. The scientific opinion received from the CSS did not say that it was necessary to organize a systematic campaign in... No, Mrs. Fonck! Try to read the penultimate notice that we received from the CSS! He said that there should be no systematic campaigns. In conclusion, the federated entities applied this opinion differently. This is not reprehensible. You can discuss it, but that is the reality. However, the heads of each entity fully agree on one point: the person who has not yet received his 3rd injection must immediately make an appointment. Then, if we send a reminder to people with immunity problems, it means that they have to make an appointment immediately because they are fragile with the covid virus and have to make an appointment for their fourth injection. It is important to say that so far, we have been slowing down with the financial regulations of pharmacists, front-line nurses (home care) and general practitioners because of the debate about sharing the financial burden of the campaign. So I decided to organize things so that general practitioners, home care nurses, pharmacists could vaccinate by applying the nomenclature code to that effect. I hope this will be operational on 18 July. I am in the process of settling this matter, but I must no longer wait for the conclusion of a broader financial debate which should take place, but which will no longer be an obstacle. Very important, in this summer period it should also be possible for people who have not yet reached their booster and people who have an immunity problem to be vaccinated by a home nurse, by a pharmacist in a pharmacy, by a general practitioner. I would add something else that may still be underexposed. I think we should help the hospitals, the residential care centers and the first line. That is also why I have made a number of proposals in the Federal Government's lap to get more hands in hospitals and residential care centres, to attract more people who come to help on a temporary basis. I am not going to anticipate that because the decisions have not yet been taken. I am also very positive about decisions that have been taken in the meantime in the Länder. For example, Mrs Crevits has announced that she offers important additional support for the general practitioners. I think that's very good. There will also be additional training courses in the care sector in Flanders. I think that's very good. We are also trying to take a number of initiatives at the federal level. What has perhaps been neglected is that we offer to the staff of the hospitals, to the general practitioners, to the staff of the residential care centres to get a fourth shot immediately. That's not a general campaign, but if those people want to get their fourth shot now, then that's possible. With that, we are a little ahead of the campaign we launch in September. Mrs Fonck, with regard to the vaccination schedule, you asked the questions that needed to be asked. When should a new vaccination campaign be launched and, as Mrs Zanchetta also pointed out, how should this campaign be organised? "When" is a complex issue. Mr. Van Gucht also said so. In the Interdepartmental Conference, we discussed the timetable at length with the heads of the specialized group of the Higher Health Council, the Vaccination Task Force and our experts. The challenge is to organize a successful campaign, so launching a new campaign in the middle of summer is somewhat risky. In addition, sufficient time must be taken to conduct this campaign. We must therefore find the right time to launch a successful campaign. That is why, so far, we have said that, unless radically contrary to the facts, we are going to launch a new mass campaign in September. This was the agreement with all the federated entities, and I think we have already commented on the pace of this campaign, but I will repeat it briefly: the idea is to vaccinate citizens aged 65 and over and immunocompromised people as a matter of priority. This means that we offer a fifth dose to people with immunity problems, but it is absolutely legitimate and necessary. We offer a fifth dose to these people from September, because we invited them, and an invitation is still underway now for a fourth dose. In addition, the new mass campaign in September will also target all health workers. In the second phase of the campaign, we will vaccinate citizens between the ages of 50 and 65. The vaccine is available to all adults who wish to. We are not yet talking about children, because we do not have enough data. As far as the modalities are concerned, I must be careful because it is rather the competence of the federated entities. I believe, Mrs Zanchetta, that there will be a triptych, firstly with mass vaccination centres, secondly with vaccination in nursing homes and hospitals for staff and residents, and finally with general practitioners and pharmacists and nurses who provide home care. This is probably the new element! I am awaiting the conclusion of a debate on financing which has not yet been completed, because I have decided to launch a financial regulation so that the first line can be vaccinated now. I imagine that the methods of operation, the relative weight of either part of this triptych, may differ from one entity to another. Pharmacists, as shown by the Brussels experience, have the advantage of a proximity that may be lacking to other modes of operation. The compulsory vaccination of health-care workers is not relevant. In my view, I believe that, as things stand, we must once again offer the opportunity to immunize ourselves and launch a real systematic campaign for caregivers as early as September. But I do not believe that, in the current context of this epidemic, compulsory vaccination should be advocated. However, if this idea emerged in the debates, scientific advice should be sought from the Higher Health Council. I would like to repeat one thing about the measures that we have learned. Vaccination is essential, but if we are facing serious problems, vaccination is not enough. It has been pointed out that the mouth mask is mandatory in hospitals today. There is a reason for this: it is an extra protection. We say very explicitly to those who feel vulnerable to wearing an FFP2 mouth mask, on the train, on the bus, in the shop. I say very explicitly that there is no problem going to a festival, but if you have met a lot of people at a festival and you then visit a sick friend or a person who is a lot older and perhaps vulnerable, then arrange outside or wear a mask. That's a good habit we have to take back. And then there is indeed ventilation. Mrs. Fonck, you're saying we're nowhere. Of course, her Majesty's opposition duty is to oppose, I understand. But nowhere seems to me an exaggeration. I pleaded for a whole period of time, with some success, for ventilation policies and measures that were carried out at the time the barometer was launched after Christmas. We have worked on this, we have made the measurement of CO2 mandatory, and we now need to establish a general legislative framework. It was approved at second reading by the Council of Ministers last Friday. In this country, there is always a debate of competences. The Council of State has now made it clear, against all oppositions, that the generic quality of indoor air is a federal jurisdiction. This allows me to legislate and create a general legislative framework, where we will proceed on a step-by-step basis because we have to convince, and we have to invest. But I won't let go. I will work legally correctly in terms of skills and pragmatic in terms of achieving results. Because the ventilation is ultra-important. I just said I was worried about the September run. I assume that there will be a ventilation policy in schools from 1 September, but there is no doubt that there is still a need to talk about this. This is also particularly important elsewhere. Eventually ventilation is a quick win. In the summer it is enough to open the windows. That sounds simple. It's simple as hello, but extremely important. [[.]] Ventilation, caution, testing strategy. Mrs Merckx, you say it's all very flou. I do not entirely agree with that. It's not flou. After much preparation and discussion, the Risk Assessment Group and the Risk Management Group have prepared a barometer. We have a test barometer, a bit like the other barometer, but now it's focused on testing. By doing so, we indicate, depending on the intensity of the epidemic and what we know about the maliciousness of the virus, how best we test. That's all in our folders now. That has been agreed and is also predictable. We are still in that test barometer at the stage where we say that those who have symptoms should be tested with a PCR or a rapid antigen test, and should draw conclusions if they are positive, such as isolation. For the rest, our testing strategy is indeed more limited than it was at the height of the epidemic, but I think there are also reasons for that. This means that there is no contact tracking today as there was at the height of the epidemic. If someone is infected, not all the people he came into contact with should be tested as well. That's a big difference. Mrs Merckx, it is good that you are making that point, because it is a bit of a warning to the people. There's a lot of virus going around and we don't have the kind of contact we had at the height of the epidemic anymore. We believe that this is too expensive, cumbersome and difficult to apply to the current situation. However, this does not mean that people should not be cautious. People need to be careful, and when necessary, we need to be able to scale the contact detection back up. So Flou isn't, a mess isn't. That barometer has six different possible contexts: three levels of epidemic and two types of maliciousness of the virus. It's clearly aligned. Within that framework, we will make the decisions and, when necessary, we will switch on the testing strategy. So it's not obvious, and neither is a mess. We're on a committee here with all kinds of people who are experts in their own way. Maybe it's less obvious to the outside world. For the outside world today the message is: do you have symptoms, be tested. Those who doubt can consult the self-evaluation tool that is still available and that indicates whether or not it makes sense to have you tested. At Sciensano there is no doubt that difficult choices have to be made and I understand that Mr Van Gucht says that you are always suffering from a shortage of resources in relation to Sciensano's scientific ambition. Of course, in recent years, we have only given more resources to Sciensano and not less. In budgetary control 2021, we gave extra €3.5 million to Sciensano for staff under covid. In the budget format 2022, we gave EUR 2.3 million to Sciensano for a structural and sustainable strengthening of staff and operation. In the case of budgetary control 2022, EUR 2 million was added once for investments. A proposal was also accepted towards 2023, with an additional EUR 3 million for investment. And then I didn't actually talk about the research commission, so the covid research commission: by 2020 it was EUR 5.8 million extra, by 2021 it was EUR 11.6 million extra and by 2022 it was an additional EUR 15.9 million. This does not alter the fact that Sciensano is an institution under great pressure in terms of workload, in terms of projects and matters to be undertaken. So there is definitely investment in Sciensano, and certainly not saved on Sciensano. We do have a seventh wave right now. I'll discuss that with the experts, and we'll follow up on this. We risk going to a plateau with a lot of pressure on the hospitals and the first line. We must be very careful about what can happen in September. That is why I am now asking for measures to support the practical functioning of care and why we are offering the staff of hospitals and residential care centres a fourth time already. That is why we have set out a vaccination scenario for the post-summer vacation period. That's not an easy choice, but I think that's the right choice. That is why I am very pleased that the design on ventilation has been approved, and that is why everyone must show solidarity with each other and with hospital staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I consider Professor Van Gucht's explanation of this afternoon well, it seemed to me to be overkill to speak of a new wave, certainly in comparison with what we experienced at the beginning of the pandemic. You do not share that view or fully share it. That does not alter the fact that we need to be prepared, albeit without creating or causing panic. From Professor Van Gucht's explanatory statement, I understand that the figures are not of the kind that we immediately lack capacity in the healthcare sector. At the end of your answer, you contradict that a little, unless I interpret it that way, I'll leave that in the middle. The fact is that you will remain vigilant with a view to September, you say. In September, you will organise a new campaign. At the moment, if I understand correctly, you are not taking any additional measures. However, I did not think that it was entirely inappropriate to use health recommendations. Perhaps you should even put a little more emphasis on that. I didn't hear you tell me about the CST.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u11	With my apologies, about the CST, I stick to what I said earlier. As far as I'm concerned, the CST is on alert. It is not topical at the moment and I do not think it will be topical in September or so, unless very unexpected things happen. However, I do not rule out the need for such an instrument in one way or another, but that is a broader debate on preparedness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u12	Minister, I think we know each other's point of view on the CST. I have already told you that the s of safe in CST is not really in place, especially given the current subvariants that do the rounds. I'd like to take you back to the healthcare sector, again. The mandatory vaccination is not new. Some Members share your point of view, but we still do not think that vaccination is an option, because in this way we ourselves are partly organising the pressure we are trying to avoid, which cannot be the intention. In his explanation this afternoon, Professor Van Gucht said that although the old generations of vaccines still have an effect, they have a relatively rapidly decreasing effect on contamination. Consequently, the prevention of infection or infection as a justification for compulsory vaccination in the healthcare sector does not seem to me to be fully justified. Furthermore, Professor Van Gucht's explanatory statement stated that there would no longer be a comprehensive vaccination campaign for the broad population. I may have misunderstood you, but I am surprised that for the time being you no longer think about compulsory vaccination in healthcare. I hope you can confirm that. I have to admit, I was a little shocked by your statement. Before the weather is misframed, I repeat for the record that we are obviously not opposed to vaccination. But we believe that this should remain a choice in health care, as in the broad sections of the population. That was, is and will remain our position. We are following the issue closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u13	Mr Minister, it is good news that you will provide a nomenclature for vaccineing doctors, pharmacists and nurses. Except I'm a little afraid you're reproposing. I don't think the plan was discussed with the stakeholders. Will you carry out that by written procedure? The general practitioners had a lot of reservations. Were they contacted about this? Is there a basis for that? The pharmacists will, of course, be very satisfied, but the whole of the first-line sector must be involved. I don't think that's the case right now. With regard to the invitations for the third and fourth prick of the 80-plussers, you stated on 5 July in the VTM News of 13.00 that you will send a letter, a personal invitation, to all patients involved. You speak of confusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u14	That was about people with immunity issues. That was a deal with the states. The letter has already been sent. Mrs. Depoorter, you continue to cause endless confusion. That was about that group of 320,000 people. The letter has already been sent. You have created endless confusion about this, already in the plenary statement. I tried to explain that to you. You are very confused about that. You really need to take a look at it quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u15	Mr Minister, you are creating confusion about this. After all, you have powers that you do not have. You're not a state minister. You don't write letters. Ministers from the Länder write the letters. I agree that Brussels and Wallonia should have sent those letters to the 80+ people like the Flemish government. That is why, to date, the third booster has been administered 479 000 times in Flanders, only 45,000 times in Wallonia and less than 9,000 times in Brussels. The persons concerned are not personally invited. The house pharmacists can't sensitize because the invitation wasn't sent. You state that "we" will send a letter. The citizen, looking at you, then assumes that the letter will come from the federal level. That's the same as before, when you mentioned your ventilation program. Ventilation in schools is a competence of the Länder, it is not up to you to communicate about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u16	Mrs Depoorter, Minister would like to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u17	Madam President, I will reply one last time, after which I propose that everyone draw their conclusions. Mrs. Depoorter, you really are making a soup out of it. I indicated that after a meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference a reminder letter would be sent to the 320,000 people with an immunity problem in each state. That's what happened. You are now confusing that again with the 80-plussers, who have not been invited to Brussels and Wallonia. However, that is another debate. That's another discussion. Please don't confuse everything. I would also like to make the following point, if I may. You have said for months that we urgently need to have the pharmacists vaccinated. Now that we are ready, you must, of course, oppose it, jump on the other foot and say that I urgently need to speak to the general practitioners on this because they do not want to. We will do that, that is for sure. Now you are throwing me in the face of the fact that I still have all kinds of new rounds to discuss. However, I have already fed them all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u18	Madam President, Minister, rest assured, I welcome the fact that you are providing a nomenclature. I note, however, that, as I have to observe more often and throughout the covid crisis, you do not always find consultation as pleasant. In communicating difficult decisions to professionals who are not jumping for that nomenclature, it would be respectful that you are not working by written procedure, but are having discussions with all the actors involved at the table. As far as communication on the reminder letter is concerned, you didn't mention 320,000 patients. I repeat, Minister, it is you who cause confusion, you do not indicate that the 80-plussers were not invited in Wallonia and Brussels. As a result, the booster rate in Brussels and Wallonia is not sufficiently high and the campaign will leave there in September with enormous delays. When it is communicated, it can be said so. First-line care, including home pharmacists who contribute to sensitisation, simply cannot work, as it has not been reported that the persons concerned have not picked up their booster. I share the concerns of September with you, Minister, and with us the whole of primary care. I believe that we really need to act. You should consult with your colleagues from the other Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. I was waiting for an opinion for those under 18, but I guess we don't have enough data to make a decision. However, I have not received a response regarding the type of vaccine to be used. What answer can you give me about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u20	The vaccines available are quite effective. But if EMA gives an authorisation for a vaccine adapted to the new Omicron variant and if industry is able to arrange deliveries, then we prefer to work with these adjusted vaccines. But we don't know yet. We're not gonna wait. We'll start immunizing. If other vaccines are available, we will use them. But it's not clear yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u21	I think we agree with the findings you have made, namely that we are going through a new wave of covid contamination, which is disappointing, but not surprising, because now we will have to live several more years with this damn virus. Besides this, the other observation is that the situation is likely to worsen further in September with the return of holidays, the resumption of work and internal contacts. Instead of learning from the past and anticipating this September peak, we will wait to protect people at risk. It is at this level that I am absolutely not following you all the more since the Interdepartmental Health Conference had stressed the need for pro-active invitations. You are telling us that they are gone, but it must be noted that the bulk of the campaign will only begin in September. I fear that, contrary to what you say, September will not be the right time, on the contrary, it will be too late. And that's not to mention that a vaccination campaign can work very well in the summer in anticipation of his departure on vacation. Last summer, young people were invited to vaccinate and it worked. Why don't we do the same this summer? In fact, the scientific opinion of the Higher Council of Health you mentioned recommends that a campaign be organized so that the vaccination recall can take place by the end of September and not from September. As far as the ventilation plan is concerned, we are again waiting for it to be implemented. You fall behind the division of skills that is very complicated in our beautiful country to justify this delay. Nevertheless, it is unacceptable, especially since it has been known for a long time now that this "gesture barrier" is fundamental. Finally, I am reassured to hear that you are insisting on raising the awareness of health care personnel of the validity of vaccination rather than opting for coercion, even if your bill that provides for it remains pending.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I understand your willingness to continue to raise awareness of vaccination. This seems important to me, given this new wave of BA4 and BA5, although, reassuringly, the rate of hospitalization, in particular, in intensive care remains very low in relation to the number of contaminations and that people with comorbidities are mainly concerned and are weakened. In doing so, the campaign must focus on immunocompromised people and people over the age of 60, to which the healthcare staff logically adds. For people under the age of 65, there is a real need to focus on those who are most vulnerable and vulnerable. In my view, general practitioners have a major role to play in sensitizing their patients who have cardiovascular, respiratory, renal problems to the importance of being vaccinated, even if they are younger. The role of general practitioners is therefore very important in the vaccination of people in fragile conditions, who are at risk, who are likely to make complications and end up in hospitals and even in intensive care. I agree with the need to take account of ventilation problems. This is very important for the future. This is important for all viruses, including influenza. Ventilation is essential and this is one of the lessons we need to learn from this viral pandemic. Ventilation will certainly be necessary in the future to prevent viral infections. I also remain convinced that recommendations on wearing masks are necessary, particularly in public transport. When you see crowded buses, it is not pointless to predict the wearing of the mask during the period of virus circulation. I would like to reiterate the need for individual responsibility for contact with vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u23	Minister, we will not count on Mrs Depoorter to clarify the debate. I agree. After all, the N-VA wants everything in our country to go into soup. Anyway, it's all kind of vague. Your explanation of the vaccination campaign and who needs to be vaccinated when is not clear at all. You announce that there will be a nomenclature number for pharmacists and nurses, but the procedures for getting the fourth injection were completely unclear. Everyone has a lot of questions about that. The same applies to the test strategy. According to you, there are 6 different contexts. In your opinion, anyone who has symptoms should be tested, but I do not have to tell you that this is not happening at all. Either pull through the line, roll out a test strategy and make the self-tests available to the citizens so that they can record a positive result. You're either committed to level practices, but you're not. After all, it would cost a lot if everyone were to use the PCR tests. You say that everyone has to test themselves, but that is not going to happen, Minister. At most 1 in 10 people will be tested. So it is not happening, and I do not think it is necessary for everyone to be tested by means of a PCR test.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u24	This may be a subject for another debate, but I did not want to talk about the surveillance strategy, which involves waste water and monitoring practices. They're working on it. Steven Van Gucht has also applied this theme well. We will also establish a very good surveillance strategy. We're still working on that. Testing is not the same as checking wastewater and organising monitoring practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u25	I find that we are in the seventh wave and that we are still sailing blind. The contact detection turned square and now it just doesn't exist anymore. Maybe we'll reboot it. As far as the pressure on hospitals and primary care is concerned, I was on watch yesterday and I found that there is still no automatic note after a positive test. However, that is easy to organise. I had to make notes for several patients last night at 21:00 and 22:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u26	May I interrupt you again? The illustration of the fact that the social partners should not always be mastered is the fact that a regulation in this area is blocked in the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u27	It would certainly be positive to be able to generate this automatically after a positive test. As far as the care staff are concerned, the pressure on hospitals is very high. Last week I also heard you speak in plenary about flexi-jobs in healthcare. I don't think that's the answer. We need to make structural investments. What is on the table for the time being is not enough, even if, for example, you have allocated an additional EUR million for Sciensano. I think Mr Van Gucht was quite clear that they are really in saving mode. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the compulsory vaccination of healthcare workers. That has so much on his mind, so I think you should definitely withdraw the bill, which is still pending.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u28	Minister, we have already discussed, among other things, a publication in Het Laatste Nieuws on 10 June, which deals in depth with the treatment of the coronapandemic by the federal government, the storage of vaccines and devices, vaccine donation, the operation of your services and beyond. Actually, that's what they're talking about. One is that Belgium has delivered 280,000 medicines to Ukraine that have expired. That was an attempt to dump a fallen stock during the epidemic in a partner country, a country at war, a country in great misery. That country had to pay for the destruction of these expired medicines and the additional costs. In total, there is approximately EUR 100 million worth of vaccines in the federal stock that are about to expire or are due to expire. How do you feel about that today? What's your answer to that? This wasn't a one-time mistake. A second shipment has been stopped. It's been realized that this really couldn't be done. The donations to Africa also did not go quite as it should. No needles, syringes or liquid were supplied, despite the fact that the N-VA fraction warned very often. Where vaccines are supplied, the logistical framework shall also be provided. Furthermore, that article also mentioned the donation of vaccines to Vietnam. Approximately 1,700 vaccines were not stored at a correct temperature. Your services have considered that the vaccines were still in sufficiently good condition and they were delivered to Vietnam, along with a pallet of 89,000 vaccines that were well preserved. Your services were aware of this. However, the FAGG first denied being aware of this, but then re-directed it. The next important point is the nose wipers. We have talked about this before in committee. You say in the article that iClean's nose wipers are distributed among your predecessor, Mrs De Block. The wipers turned out to be frayed. On 14 September 2021, you replied to me in committee that they could potentially harm the patient and undermine the test result. They can lead to false positive results. It was well known that these nose wipers were not in conformity, but they were not accepted. On 14 September, you also replied to my question that there was a toxicological test. I told you those nose wipers should be quarantined, but they were still sold and used to test our patients. In the article in question, you are not talking about the discussion we have been discussing here. There is talk of 170,000 nose wipers which would not conform and which were nevertheless distributed among the patients. In addition, the nose wipers of Any-Shape have caused problems. The FAGG also approved the allocation for this purpose. Have you made a risk assessment? Have any mistakes been made? The government has also taken the lead in the purchase of medicines in the covid period. A lot of medication was distributed across the hospitals. After a number of waves, the medication was reclaimed and put into a strategic stock. Now it turns out the hospitals didn't always have enough room to keep the medication properly. To what extent have we verified the conditions under which the medicines were kept? Are all those meds still in line? So the drugs went back and forth from the hospitals to the strategic stock and vice versa. That is very special, Minister. You indicated that risk analyses were carried out there as well. You make it perfectly clear that there were no risks for the citizens. The last part of my interplay is about the strategic stock of personal protective materials. It is reported that in the strategic stock, which was recommended as rotating by the Covid Committee, a large part of the mouth masks and other personal protective equipment are not in conformity. That non-conformity would have been established and it would have to be destroyed. I'd like to hear from you to what extent that's true. I therefore have a number of specific questions for you. Do you know of expired or almost expired vaccines or devices used in the country or abroad and where problems have been identified? If so, which countries are they talking about? What are the numbers and types of products? How many products had to be destroyed in the end? How many could be used? What costs were paid by which parties? How did the communication with the recipient countries go? What are the findings on the nose wipers? What is the relevant reporting on the sale and use of iCleanswabs after 14 September 2021, when I asked you that question in committee and you replied that there would be a toxicity analysis. What are the findings of that toxicity analysis? How were they followed? What adjustments have taken place? When? I have the same questions about Any-Shape's nose wipers. Do you know of any other problems with nose wipers? If so, what problems were identified? What products were involved? What was the risk involved? How does the follow-up happen? We also discussed the storage of vaccines this morning. How many vaccines have expired or are likely to expire? How many are damaged? How many are or have been destroyed? When? What will this cost? What happens to the surplus vaccines? Do your services know the exact storage history of all lots of medicines or personal protective materials currently present in the strategic stock? If not, what numbers are we talking about? Do you think that the health of our own citizens and of other countries has never been at risk, despite these facts? Are there any problems with the purchase, management and use of personal protective materials, medicines, vaccines, tests, swabs or other diagnostic material, syringes, vaccines or other related material that you or your services are aware of and have not been disclosed to the public? What measures do you intend to take to address or avoid any problems that may not have been made public? Do you have any more information about this? Finally, there are also rumours about the non-conformity of personal protective equipment present in the strategic stock, which is not rotating. To what extent are these rumours correct and to what extent should destruction be carried out? I also had questions about the nose wipers and the donation to Vietnam. I will refer to the written version of those questions, as they were contained in the interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u29	Minister, with regard to the 400,000 counterfeited swabs mentioned in an article by Jeroen Bossaert in the Latest News of 10 June, about which the colleague interspersed you in plenary, you said that the article is rather exaggerated. You relativized and minimized it all a bit, it was in times of scarcity and then one has to choose between possible non-sterile swabs and no swabs. The government finally opted for the swabs without a valid sterility certificate, for swaps which were therefore potentially not sterile. A number of labs have raised major questions. There was also the soap opera with the medicines, on which you said in plenary that they were medicines for people in coma. You emphasized that strongly. I don't know what its relevance is except feeding emopolitics. With regard to the swabs, what cost-benefit analysis was made for this? What costs and benefits were charged? Were there significantly more false positives or false negatives from those swabs? Was that checked and followed up? Do you know where those fake swabs ended up? Are they traceable? In times of mouth mask shortages, mouth masks without a valid certificate were still placed in quarantine and not distributed. Why didn't that happen for the swabs? With regard to medicinal products, what cost-benefit analysis was made for this? What costs, what benefits were charged? These are released medicines that you claim all precautions have been taken. Which precautions are these exactly? Do you recognize that things have gone wrong? What will you do to avoid such mistakes in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u30	Madam President, I just had five minutes to speak. I would like to add one more thing. Mr Minister, it is also about what has appeared in the Latest News and about the possible coronablunders. You have indicated that you have contacted a new distribution partner and that there is a call for tenders. Does this have to do with a corona blunder that you want to correct, namely the fact that Medista doesn't meet the expectations or that the invoice rises? Is this a form of correction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u31	I will work in order and deal first with the questions about donation to Vietnam, then with Mrs Depoorter's questions about the so-called coronal ablunders and then with Mrs Sneppe's questions about the so-called fake swabs, an expression that I do not take in my mouth, because that is not true from any point of view. Finally, I must not forget to answer the additional question concerning the distributor of vaccines. It was added here on the spot, but I'd like some answers. First of all, I come to the questions about the donation to Vietnam. Does the FAGG have its initial statement that it had not been updated? The FAGG was informed by the FPS Public Health in August 2021 about a quantity of vials that were not stored in the correct conditions. The FAGG was asked for advice on the impact on the quality of the vaccines concerned. The FAGG immediately confirmed that there was no negative impact on the quality of the product. The FPS then decided on the release of the vaccines for donation. The FAGG took note of this only after the donation by the FOD. I come to the second question. Who made the decision to keep these damaged vaccines anyway? Who decided this fate would be available for donation? In the case of storage that does not comply with the instructions of the authorisation, a risk analysis shall be carried out, inter alia, on the basis of the manufacturer's stability dates, in order to ensure the quality of the medicinal products. If it shows that the quality can be guaranteed, the medicines can be distributed. The analysis showed that the effects of storage at too cold a temperature were negligible. From AstraZeneca's stability data, the experts of the FAGG were able to conclude in this case that the quality could be guaranteed. As I said earlier, on the basis of that evaluation, the FPS has decided for what purposes they would be used. So it is not right to speak of damaged vaccines. Those vaccines weren't damaged. According to the FAGG's risk analysis, they were perfectly usable. With regard to the other problem, the sustainability, you ask: "Does the Minister believe that donation of vaccines with three weeks of shelf life is morally correct and justifiable?" Vietnam was informed of the short expiration date of less than 2 % of the donation amount. The Vietnamese authorities made it clear that they accepted the donation because they would administer the doses immediately. The donation was therefore carried out in a coordinated and transparent manner. The following question was: "Does the Minister remember any abuses involving vaccines or medicines in which the FAGG is involved and which were used at home and abroad?" My answer is that the FAGG experts gave advice here on the basis of the firm's stability data. It has been confirmed that there is no problem. The donation has also been made in all transparency, with a view to immediate administration. The question, as I have already made clear for this case, is whether I have any knowledge of 'diseases', not even the issue. This wasn't a mess. Then I come to your questions about the so-called 'coron ablunders'. Your first question is: "Do you know of expired or almost expired vaccines or devices used abroad or abroad, around which problems have been identified? Which countries are they talking about? What numbers and type of products? How many products? What are the costs involved?" Well, my services are not aware of any problems identified with vaccines, medical devices or medicinal products that would have almost expired or expired. No specific problem has been identified. Second, the nose wipers were asked: "What are the findings and relevant reporting regarding the sale and use of iClean Swabs after September 2021? What were the results of the toxicity analysis? Was it followed? What adjustments were there?" Well, during the crisis, in August 2020 in particular, part of the quarantined stock was released to iClean Swabs because there was no alternative. These swabs were quarantined as the FAGG had received no evidence from a notified body which had verified the quality system for maintaining the sterility. As a competent authority, the FAGG has normally carried out its work in accordance with current European and national legislation. During the crisis, a large quantity of swabs was still needed for the tests and the available quantities were too small at the time. In such circumstances, a benefit-risk analysis shall be carried out. It also indicated that it was appropriate to release the necessary amount of swabs instead of leaving the test centres with a lack of swabs. The FAGG experts I myself consulted on this issue also confirm at this time that these swabs do not need to be sterile at all for the use for which they are intended, namely to take a PCR test. Professor Herman Goossens, nevertheless an important authority, answers me in an email about being sterile "That is not necessary. The wipers must be clean but they should not be sterile. With a wiper you go into the nose and/or throat that is full of bacteria and sometimes also viruses, with which that wiper comes into contact. The PCR test will therefore always be performed on a wiper on which the nasal and/or throat flora is located. Then why should one use a sterile wiper? In addition, the PCR test is incredibly specific and detects only SARS-CoV-2 virus RNA. This is also necessary because the eraser will be infected with nose and/or throat flora. Otherwise we will get false positive results." That is what people are saying about it at the moment. Mrs. Sneppe mentioned fake wipers. Come on, what are we doing? In the meantime, other problems have been identified. In February 2021, FAGG received a complaint from a competitor showing that fibres would be released if iClean swabs were rubbed over a cloth. However, this test carried out by the competitor is not an approved test and does not give an indication of what is effectively done in the nose. However, cytotoxic tests were carried out, in which the components of seven different lots of swabs were obtained by extraction for 24 hours at 37 °C in Triple. That is an overestimate of what might happen in the nose, for the sake of clarity. People have done that. The cytotoxic toxicity of these extracts was then determined. No extract was found to be toxic. As a result, no further action was taken. For Any-Shape's swabs, some reports were received from patients about their discomfort while using the wiper. Any-Shape was contacted by the FAGG and adjusted the swabs. Following the modification of the wipers, no more reports were received and no further follow-up was carried out. I come to Mrs Depoorter's third question: "Do you know of other problems with nose wipers? What are the problems and what are the risks?" It happens that reports are made about nose wipers. For example, in April 2021, a notification was made by the competent Czech authorities that certain swabs would have used adhesives with toluene and ethylbenzene. The FAGG requested a component analysis from Sciensano, demonstrating that there was no problem based on the quantification limit of the measuring equipment. Daily use of these swabs would give an exposure that is more than 1000 times below the allowed dose, making the risk negligible. This is an example. There may sometimes be reports, indeed. My services let me know that they are not aware of any real problems with nose wipers. Then I come to the storage of vaccines, how many are at risk of falling and so on. On 31 May, 430,000 doses of AstraZeneca expired, followed in July by 800,000 doses of Moderna and 90,000 doses of Pfizer, which are more than likely to have to be destroyed. As Moderna intends to submit new stability data to the EEA, the shelf life of these doses could be extended by three to five months. Therefore, caution should be exercised and doses should not be disposed of too early, pending further stability data. No doses have been destroyed yet. The costs are based on the weight per pallet to be destroyed. For example, a pallet containing AstraZeneca vaccines weighs almost 400 kilograms for 864,000 doses, while destruction costs about 500 euros per tonne as target price. I was also asked whether my services knew the exact storage history of the different lottery tickets and, if not, the numbers involved. It is a bit of a question, because the European obligations on traceability are gradual, but I assume that the question is also about vaccines. My services know the full conservation of the vaccines, up to the delivery to the vaccination centres, but not the other way around. For the tools, including the swabs, Regulation (EU) 2017/745 provides for traceability to be achieved by economic operators and at an appropriate level. Given the low risk of the swabs, it implies that suppliers, economic operators and customers, economic operators or health care institutions and healthcare providers should be known. I was also asked whether I believe that the health of our own citizens and those of other countries has never been in danger. The services inform me that they have at all times supplied vaccines and medicines whose traceability and quality could be guaranteed in the interests of the patient. I was also asked whether there were any problems or errors to be expected with regard to the purchase and management and use of personal protective equipment, etc. My services manage the stock as best they can and ensure quality and traceability. Some improvements have been made quickly, although all information has been transmitted transparently and in consultation with the actors concerned, such as hospital pharmacists. This also happens in normal circumstances, outside a crisis situation, if there is a problem with medical equipment or a medicine. I was also asked what measures I would take. The working procedures shall be regularly evaluated and adapted in areas where there is still room for improvement. Operational procedures shall be written or updated with detailed instructions. Mrs Sneppe, you asked a question about the cost-benefit analysis. Talking about fake swabs or fake swabs is absolutely irrelevant. There's nothing fake or fake about it. I shall leave the words which appear in the text of your question. One thing is clear, keeping the pandemic under control during that period rested mainly on massive tests to detect SARS-CoV-2 infections in time. As mentioned above, there was a risk of a shortage of fully compliant nose wipers, i.e. nose wipers that were sterile according to the manufacturer, while there was no certificate for that. However, experts today agree that there is no need for sterility. Indeed, a benefit-risk analysis was also carried out for the not fully compliant swabs and in the interest of public health. Such an analysis shall take into account four sets of factors: firstly, the validation tests already carried out and the experience gained in using the swabs; secondly, any complaints received; thirdly, the specific non-conformity, such as problems with labelling, lack of full evidence of a certified quality system for sterilisation; and fourthly, information that can be given and measures that can be taken to reduce the risk. When the risk was considered small in relation to the benefits, it was decided to distribute a certain amount of nose wipers. This is also explicitly permitted by the legislation. I think it goes without saying that the consequences of a shortage of swabs would have been huge. We are talking about events in the previous legislature, I was not involved at all, but I dare say that I do not see what was wrong about this in the previous legislature. In non-sterile swabs, the risk is even non-existent. Were significantly more false positive or false negative results obtained from those swabs? Now, reports of swabs and decrease tubes are being monitored. No reports of abnormal amounts of false positive or false negative results were received. You're asking me if I know where those fake swabs ended up. Since I do not really understand what you mean by 'false' swabs and since there was no issue regarding safety and efficacy, I think that question is without object. In times of mouth mask shortages, mouth masks without a valid certificate were still placed in quarantine. Why didn't that happen for the swabs? Well, a lot of non-compliant mouth masks were also released from quarantine. However, an alternative test protocol was developed for these masks. The alternative test protocol was used to demonstrate the filter capacity and breathability of the mouth masks. Since it was considered that they were the two main values in the context of the covid crisis, mouth masks that passed those two tests were released for distribution. Swabs were released after risk analysis when the risk was considered small, while the effects of the Swabs deficiency would have been disastrous for public health. As the non-sterility of nasal swabs at the intended use for testing of COVID-19 is not really relevant to the health of the patient, no additional tests were performed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u32	Mrs Sneppe, once again you asked the question about the cost-benefit analysis about medicines. The release of medicines from the strategic stock is the responsibility of the FPS Public Health. When confronted with an incident that could question the quality of the medicinal products, the FPS quarantines the medicinal product first with the distributor and then contacts the analytical experts of the FAGG, who evaluate the potential impact on the quality, taking into account the facts, the documents describing the facts and the stability data available to them. When the experts confirm that the quality of the medicinal products in question is intact, the FPS documents the whole, removes the quarantine from the distributor and re-takes them into usable stock, either for Belgian patients or for donations, provided that all other good distribution practices are met as well. If there is doubt as to the conclusion of the experts or if they conclude that the quality is not guaranteed, the medicinal products shall no longer be made available to patients and the distributor shall place them in the destruction zone. What are the precautions for released medicines, which you claim all precautions are taken? As I have already given to Mrs Depooster, the experts of the FAGG have examined the impact of non-compliant preservation on the quality of the vaccines in question, which were later donated to Vietnam. It was found that there was no negative impact on the company's stability dates. When the expert advice concludes that the quality of the medicines is guaranteed, the FPS Public Health will lift the quarantine and use the medicines in question, to ensure continuity of care for Belgian patients or to show our solidarity by responding to an urgent request from a country in need. The quality of the medicines made available to patients, whoever they are, is an absolute priority for my administration. Indeed, it would not be ethically and healthly justified to delete medicines if expertise shows that they are of good quality and can provide for public health for which we are responsible. Your final question was whether I recognise whether there has been some error and what I will do to avoid such mistakes in the future. The procedures for ensuring quality and safety have been followed and no errors have been demonstrated in this matter, let alone errors with an impact on public health. Mrs Depoorter, you also add questions about a recent publication in Het Laatste Nieuws, but well. In Het Laatste Nieuws it was said that I have silently and for no clear reason launched a new public tender for the distribution of vaccines. It was also said that Mrs Crevits had been very worried during the IMC. That last one's not right. Mrs Crevits did not say anything about this at the IMC. Her head of the cabinet has just discussed this in logical terms, which Mrs Crevits subsequently reappeared in a response to the article. She said that continuity is an important concern when performing such a distribution operation with another distributor. That is obvious, and I agree with that. However, it is quite wrong for Mrs Crevits to have made it a major problem during the IMC. I don't know where that came from. Secondly, this has not happened silently at all. It's a public tender, so that's a public process. Thirdly, that decision was taken because the budgetary costs we were carrying and would still bear for the payment of the existing distributor were clearly starting to explode. We would therefore be dealing with the budgetary resources envisaged. It has been said that a new tender should be made for vaccines and that it would be good if I did so. It has been recommended to adopt a centralised approach to the distribution of vaccines and medicinal products, as this would be much more efficient. As a result of the budgetary concerns that have been expressed, I have launched a new public invitation to tender. This has been done quite publicly, nothing was silent about it. I told Het Laatste Nieuws that I could not give any further information, since it was an ongoing award procedure. So I could not provide any further information on how the award procedure ran or on what offers came in and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u33	Minister, as far as Vietnam is concerned, you say that you have carried out a risk analysis and that those vaccines proved to be in order. As you know, I worked at the vaccination center myself. I am sure of one thing, namely that our Flemish patients would not be injected with those vaccines. If we donate vaccines, we must apply the same guidelines for people abroad as for our own citizens. That didn't happen. You also said that you agreed with Vietnam that the vaccines in question were only useful for three weeks. The mistake you made was later even corrected by the WHO. The specific directive provides that vaccines should be donated three months before the expiry date. It's definitely a blunder. You can hide behind a risk analysis, but there too you have not applied the general scientific guidelines, the general international agreements. There, too, it is proven that the way the federal government was working was not correct with respect to citizens in another country. That is a serious matter. As far as iClean's swabs are concerned, you are doing everything you can to say that you were not involved, but I note that in August 2021, when you were a minister for eight months, half of those swabs were quarantined and used. We have adopted a European directive on medical devices. That means de facto that if some expert says it shouldn't be sterile, we're gonna patch everything up and it doesn't have to be sterile anymore. I repeat, this is le triangle de la mort. There could be an effective problem here. Whatever those experts say, I would like to ask you whether in August 2021 there would be no corresponding swab in our country. Did the whole world test with non-sterile swabs in August and September 2021? The FAGG even states that it does not know the origin of the swabs we are talking about. Are you saying that it is logical that a medical device should be placed on the market without knowing its origin, without knowing where and under what conditions it was produced? After all, that is what the FAGG indicates. You took a risk here. Same with the toxicity analysis. You told me on 14 September that the analysis was being carried out and now you come here with a story of extraction. Extraction is not friction. If we go in the nose with a fiber swab, it's the friction that causes the residue of fibers. That's not what one does with extracting in a liquid. You've taken a risk to public health, and you're talking it right. We have talked about the expired vaccines before, but you have not answered a question I have already asked you three times. What about today's rotating strategic stock? Are there any non-conformitys there? Is it true that 60% will have to be destroyed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u34	Mrs Depoorter, I have given a detailed answer on this question, on stock. I will not repeat this forever, nor do I know it on the outside. There has been no change in the information that has been disseminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u35	You didn't give that answer. You have given the answer of the past and how that ATP check was created.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u36	I understand that you always ask these questions again, but I will not always give the same answers. Read the report from this committee a few weeks ago. There you will find the answer to that question in all the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u37	Have you identified non-conformitys in the strategic stock in the last few months for which you will have to go to destruction or have you tried in a hurry to get the stock rotating anyway? This is an explicit question which I am asking you, and on which I do not receive an answer from you. Thank you for your answer to the Medista story. Today's call for tenders is still under way. You don't think it goes quietly. Did you run the tender in consultation with the Länder? How big was the budget overrun? How is it that a budget overrun can happen? When you run a tender, is it certain or did you have a fairly running tender that could be filled out? Once you have assigned Medista, I have reminded you that it was a company that was not so well known in the medical and pharmaceutical sector for the transport of frozen medicines or medicines that had to be distributed refrigerated. It was a tender without prior notice. That was the custom at the time. Does it have anything to do with that? Were there any errors in the tender at the time? We have already had a number of discussions on this. Will it be completely public now? Are concrete budgetary commitments now being made? Did you make a mistake with the Medista tender? I can conclude from this today. It is very important to know whether this decision was taken effectively in consultation with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u38	Mr Minister, when I talk about counterfeit swabs, they are not my words, but that is a reference to the article on which my questions are addressed. You're also playing a word game here. False swabs or non-compliant swabs, that's more or less the same for me. Those are swabs that don't comply with the regulations. According to you, and according to Professor Goossens, that's not necessary either. I find that odd. I suspect Professor Goossens is for a lot involved, because no swabs means no testing and no testing means no income for his lab, I guess. If these swabs don't have to be sterile, why do we ask for a sterility certificate? The swabs must be sterile, except for those that should not be sterile. That's a dubious case, isn't it? I asked for traceability in order to check whether there are more false positive or more false negative results between the non-compliant swabs. It's important to know where those swabs went. We need to know if there's any difference in the results between the sterile and non-sterile swabs? I also found your answer on the expiry dates of medicines and vaccines strange. If the expiration date egg has expired so late, a stability test is performed. It is then decided whether the expiry date can be extended and whether the medicinal products can be used even further. Then why should there be an expiration date, I wonder. I'm joining my colleague. The failure of this and the previous government continues. You're not learning from what the past has taught us. You continue to push through your own will, at the expense of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u39	Mr President, are there any answers from the Minister to the additional questions? We shall then have to put it in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u40	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Kathleen Depoorter and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the fact that the Belgian Government supplied 280,000 medicines to Ukraine which were about to lapse, which is contrary to international standards; - having regard to the fact that a damaged stock of covid vaccines was delivered to Vietnam, apparently with full knowledge, - having regard to the fact that these deliveries can be regarded as deliberate attempts to dispose of their own decayed stock, which was built up during coronapandemic events but which was apparently not properly followed, elsewhere; - considering that the FAGG and the Public Health Office were aware of problems with various stocks of nose wipers; - having regard to the fact that these unreliable nose wipers, as well as the test results obtained with them, were not withdrawn from circulation or revoked, - having regard to the fact that many citizens received incorrect diagnoses of covid contamination, with all the consequences (unnecessary quarantines, inappropriate behavior with a view to limiting further infections, etc.); - having regard to the many questions raised concerning: the follow-up of the storage, transport, distribution, collection and status determination of covid vaccines; - having regard to the fact that the current status of many covid vaccines appears to be impossible to determine and therefore poses a risk for final use; - having regard to the fact that risk analyses have not been sufficiently supported and that they have created unnecessary risks for citizens by the public authorities; asks the government - recognize that there are fundamental problems with the follow-up of the different lottery covid vaccines; - to carry out a thorough screening of the current procedures in this area; - recognise that the donation of certain covid vaccines (in particular those intended for Ukraine and Vietnam) did not take place in accordance with the standard international rules; - better organise the follow-up of available covid vaccines and give priority to the safety of vaccines and citizens with the Public Health Office; - ensure that the necessary measures are taken to minimise the health risks to citizens (both in our country and in countries where covid vaccines, medicines, tests, personal protective equipment and medical devices are donated) and any destruction costs for the recipient countries of the abovementioned donations; - keep a complete inventory and keep it available for inspection for the determination of usable covid vaccines, including purchase and expiry dates, origin, road journey, status, details and final destination, - keep a complete inventory and keep it available for inspection to determine the unusable or undetermined covid vaccines, including purchase and expiry dates, origin, road journey, status, details and final destination, - to draw up an overview of the risks associated with: the stock of covid vaccines, medicines, tests, personal protective equipment and medical devices which the FPS Public Health knows about, and the measures to be taken in this context, with timeline." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de Mme Kathleen Depoorter and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - in view of the fact that the Belgian Government has delivered 280,000 medicines to Ukraine on the verge of expiry, which is contrary to the standards applied in this field at international level; - in view of the fact that a damaged stock of covid-19 vaccines was delivered to Vietnam, apparently knowingly; - in view of the fact that these deliveries can be considered as deliberate attempts to rid ourselves in another country of our own obsolete stocks, which were formed during the covid-19 pandemic but have clearly not been followed up sufficiently closely; - Whereas AFMPS and SPF Public Health have proven to be aware of problems related to different swab stocks; - in view of the fact that these unreliable swabs, as well as the results of the tests obtained with these swabs, have not been removed from circulation or recalled; - in view of the fact that many of our fellow citizens have thus been misdiagnosed about contamination with covid-19, with all its consequences (forty unnecessary, inappropriate behaviour to limit the risk of cascading contamination, etc.).); - in view of the many questions that have arisen concerning the practical monitoring of the conservation, transport, distribution, collection and determination of the status of vaccines against covid-19; - in view of the fact that it is clearly impossible to determine the current status of many covid-19 vaccines and that this impossibility poses a risk to end-use; - in view of the fact that risk analyses have not been sufficiently supported and that the public authorities have thus created unnecessary risks for our citizens; asks the government - to recognise that there are fundamental problems in monitoring the status of the different batches of covid-19 vaccines; - to carry out an in-depth analysis of the current procedures in this field; - to recognize that donations of certain vaccines against covid-19 (i.e. those intended for Ukraine and Vietnam) have not been made in accordance with the international requirements in force; - to better organise the follow-up of available vaccines against covid-19 and to give priority, with the Public Health FPS, to the safety of vaccines and that of our fellow citizens; - to ensure that the necessary measures will be taken to minimise the health risks to our citizens (both in our country and in the countries where covid-19 vaccines, medicines, tests, personal protective equipment and medical devices are donated) and the possible costs of destroying these donations for the countries benefiting from the above-mentioned donations; - to systematically maintain and make available for its consultation a complete inventory to determine which vaccines can be used against covid-19, including purchase and expiry dates, origin, route travelled, status, particularities and final destination; - to systematically maintain and make available for the purposes of its consultation a complete inventory of unusable vaccines or vaccines of undeterminable status, including purchase and expiry dates, origin, journey, status, particularities and final destination; - to draw up an overview of the risks associated with stocks of covid-19 vaccines, medicines, tests, personal protective equipment and medical devices known to the Public Health FPS, and to communicate what measures will be taken in this context, specifying the timetable." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée. The motion will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motion will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u41	Mr President, may I take advantage of your kindness and the flexibility of Mr Depooster to deal first with the next question on the agenda, because in 15 minutes I will be present in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u42	Are you sure you don't mind? Then you can ask your question first, Mr Creyelman.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u43	Minister, I refer to the text of the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u44	Mr Minister, the pharmaceutical distributors are asking for a review of their margin system. That margin is anchored today according to the price of the medicinal product. But in the meantime, operating and fuel costs are increasing. Pharmacists get three to four deliveries a day, which is a nice service to patients, but in the face of inflation this is no longer feasible. An alternative solution could be to index the margin on the medicines. This would not create additional costs for the patient, as the brake fee remains unchanged. What are your views on the proposal to revise the margin system? What are the points of discussion? Can we continue to determine this margin on the basis of the price of the medicine? Is this economic model still sustainable, as generic medicines are becoming cheaper and cheaper? Can wholesalers still guarantee the same services to pharmacists and their patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u45	Minister, wholesalers-partitioners who distribute drugs in pharmacies are an essential link in the chain. In particular, this makes it necessary to guarantee delivery to the pharmacy and thus accessibility to treatments and medicines for patients. Wholesalers-partitioners are currently paid on the basis of a percentage of the prices of medicines. The fixed price does not change according to the increase in costs. With this margin, they still have to pay phone operators, shopkeepers, drivers, transport, inventory returns... According to the distributors, operating costs have increased by 10 % since the beginning of 2021, while their remuneration has remained at the same level. As a result, they have several claims, including catching up with the indexation of margins during the period of health crisis and maintaining a link between margins and the evolution of the health index in the coming years. Have there been or are there plans for consultations with the distribution wholesaler sector? What are the advanced solutions to maintain drug accessibility for pharmacists and therefore for patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u46	The economic margin of the wholesaler falls within the competence of Minister of Economy Dermagne. I have therefore consulted his services for the answer to the questions. In June 2021, the FPS Economy made a short analysis of the margins of wholesalers. The following elements have emerged from this analysis. First, in 2019, two companies together accounted for 68% of the total turnover of the sector. Second, the weighted average net margin decreased between 2014 and 2019, with a sharp decrease in 2017. Third, there is a decrease in the weighted average gross operating margin between 2014 and 2019, which confirms the decreasing trend of the company margin. On 30 May 2022 representatives of the wholesalers-distributors were received on my policy cell. They then outlined the problems they face, namely the limited margin and its reduction over time, as well as the rising costs, and suggested solutions. They demand recognition for the role they play, the re-leveling of the margin and the legal establishment of rules for stock depreciation in the event of price reductions. These proposals are currently being examined. In order to be able to answer the question of the introduction of an indexation system for the margin of the wholesaler, it is necessary to carry out the necessary investigations first. I think I also answered Mr Bacquelaine's questions. I apologise for having answered only in Dutch, I hope that was clear enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We all need to realise that we need to strike a good balance between the interests of the wholesalers, who, as you yourself said, play a not insignificant role in our health system, and that of the patient, which we must also promote. The wholesalers see themselves faced with a certain economic reality and I understand from your answer that it is still being examined at the moment how we can meet the demand of wholesalers in the light of this economic reality, without compromising the patient. It cannot be that the interests of one group are automatically at the expense of those of the patients. The patient must not suffer from the measures taken to safeguard the margins of the wholesalers, I think myself. That is a bridge too far, as far as we are concerned. I hope we can agree on this; I am certainly waiting with you for the results of the investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u48	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your colleague for the Economy is indeed competent in the matter and it is a good thing that you are having this matter examined. Can I stress the importance of the services provided by wholesalers to the pharmacies? The number of deliveries of medicines per day must remain guaranteed. There are a lot of them. The pharmacy's stock is usually huge too. But if there is an urgency, there must be access to the urgent medicine in question very quickly. This must therefore remain affordable in the current economic model. An arrangement must not be at the expense of the patient or at the expense of the pharmacist himself. In any case, we need to look at a sustainable economic model and find a solution to the hugely rapidly rising fuel costs that the distributors face today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u49	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I believe that, indeed, it is a question of recognizing the role played by the distribution wholesalers. Of course, there needs to be a balance between the interest of wholesalers and the interest of patients, but patients also have an interest in having a number of medicines available quickly depending on their demand. Interests are related. We will wait for the results of the studies you are announcing today to ensure that the role of wholesalers in the drug chain is maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the AZ Alma in Eeklo opened the doors of the new hospital on the Ringlaan in 2017. On the fifth floor of wing C a still unfinished location was provided for a palliative unit. Pending the allocation of the beds for this purpose, the space provided remained unused. More than five years later, however, there is still no recognition of palliative unity. The AZ Alma provides hospital care for the Meetjesland. That's a big region. Many patients now have to go to Ghent or Bruges for palliative care. You know that palliative care is very important. You also know that accessibility and proximity are very important for patients' families. The mayors of Meetjesland, my region, have also sent you a joint letter of recommendation. They're asking you to put this file on track. They're asking you to do something about this quickly. What is the reason for the standstill in this file? Is there a short-term solution on the table? If not, what are the alternatives to the demand for palliative units and how will you address this question? What other palliative units currently have a question for recognition? Have you been in contact with the AZ Alma? Did you agree to the invitation that was sent to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u51	Mrs Depoorter, I have been in contact with the general hospital, or at least with people involved in that action, because I was called upon to do so. I have also said what is happening in the area of competence. That is also the answer I must give you. The recognition of hospital services, functions, care programmes, etc. is the responsibility of the Communities. The AZ Alma has undoubtedly submitted its file to the competent Flemish minister. The state of play can therefore be requested there. I only receive the recognition decisions once the recognition was delivered effectively. For the rest, therefore, I do not have any information on pending recognition files.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u52	Mr Minister, I will put the question to the competent Flemish minister. What struck me was that you didn't agree to the invitation to the conversation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u53	Anyway, I was invited to a press conference. Of course, I didn't go there because I'm not qualified. So that would be kind of crazy. Even if I were authorized, it's doubtful if I'd go to a press conference about an action. However, I am not competent. You would be very, very, very angry if I went to a press conference on the competence of the Flemish Government. So I didn't do that, but I did get in touch and helped with the analysis a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u54	Mr Minister, that is being prosecuted. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u55	In the meantime, Minister, it has been a year since we had a committee on the delay in the medical accident fund. At the beginning of June 2021, you announced that a concrete plan had been drawn up to eliminate the existing backlog of the files from 1 June 2021. At that time, you estimated the delay on 1,592 files and you stated that the delay between 1 June 2021 and 1 June 2023 would be reduced on average by about 65 dossiers on a monthly basis. That was consistent with the 1,592 files. You also said at the time that a task force manager would be appointed who would prepare weekly status reports, which would in principle be delivered to the minister, but also to the management committee, to the administrator-general of the RIZIV and to the FMO-direction. "Where necessary, the task force manager identifies bottlenecks and suggests solutions to the problems raised. In short, these reports could be used to detect structural problems. In addition, you indicated that the task force manager would cost 3.3 million euros. For 2021, I see a transfer of 1.1 million euros from the Medical Accidents Fund. This would mean that by 2022 the transfer would be EUR 1.8 million and EUR 0.4 million for 2023. In doing so, we understood that you had the intention to deal with the problem. On 8 June 2022, Ms Mia Honinx was a guest of the Health Committee. She noted that, at the end of May 2022, about 6,155 patient files had been submitted since the start of the FMO. She also stated that at that time, 4,838 patient files had been handled up to and including advice. There are thus still 1,317 open files at the moment. During the same hearing, Ms Honinx stated that her figures on how to deal with the backlog relate to a settlement of the debt to and from advice, i.e. not until payment. Some of these cases have therefore not yet been dealt with, since compensation by the FMO or the recovery of the insurers concerned has not taken place. We are now halfway through 24 months, and I have to say that you have not received 65 files a month and have not been able to halve the delay. Hence the following questions. The decline in the number of files that we have seen on many occasions, and I have also reminded you of this in the motion for a resolution I have tabled, which may seem favourable, but is actually a problem, because it points out that the confidence of the victims in the FMO is decreasing. Between 2015 and 2019, the following numbers of files were submitted: 600 in 2015 and 2016, 500 in 2017, 450 in 2018 and 500 in 2019. In 2020 there were 362 new files. How did that continue to evolve in 2021 and early 2022? What is the cause of the failure of the FMO and of your plan to overtake the file delay? Is there a step-by-step plan? Has the temporary task force been appointed with additional manpower and a task force manager and will they succeed in eliminating the file delay? How come they are not achieving the expected results? Can you clarify the bottlenecks identified in the status reports by the Task Force Manager and how the solutions are presented? Can you clarify how many files have been fully handled since 1 June 2021, including any payment by the FMO or recovery? In the meantime, how much of the delay has been effectively overtaken? In the light of the objective of dealing with all pending files within 24 months, can you clarify how a processed file is defined in your roadmap? At the committee meeting of 8 June 2021, you said that the task force had started on 1 June 2021, but Ms Honinx said in committee this year that the task force was only launched on 1 September 2021 and that it will stop on 1 September 2023. Can you clarify that timing? How come you're both giving different dates? New staff would also be recruited by the FMO, including six administrative staff and five lawyers. Is that what happened in the meantime? You also said: "In the future, I will aim at the end of 2021 "It will be possible to monitor the status of the file digitally for new applications. Is that the case in the meantime? Is the cost of the task force still up-to-date? I would also have liked to know what the average cost per file is in the meantime. What evaluation is given? What struck me in committee this year was that Mrs Honinx had no idea of the cost per file. Minister, I remember that we had a discussion on this in November 2021. Have you increased efficiency per file? Mr Minister, if I am correct, 275 cases have now been dealt with. That's 22 a month. What will you do, to help the victims faster, to pay out faster and also to make recovery faster and more efficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Depoorter, it is an important question and I would almost say a good question, but all the questions are of course good questions. We must distinguish between eliminating the historical backwardness, which is one part of the challenge, and the other part, which is to prevent us from building up new backwardness. I want to talk first about the historical backwardness. This delay was defined as all dossiers until 31 December 2020, except for the priority dossiers, which have not yet received an opinion at the time when the Task Force became operational. That was September 1, 2021. That was the definition. That amounted to 1,250 files and was the primary focus of the task force. We are therefore also talking about task force files. Of these 1,250 files, 500 have now received an opinion. If we spread a total of 1,250 files over 24 months, nine months of which are now over, nine months since the Task Force became operational on 1 September 2021, we are on track with those 500 files that have received an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u57	That's not a payout. That's an advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u58	That wasn't said. I can therefore deny that the task force as such would fail in eliminating the backlog. It is true that the task force was operational a few months later than hoped in the plan of action. When the task force became operational, we had talked about 1 June 2021, but the labour market shortages were also felt by the FMO, which they are still, and finding staff within the hoped time frame proved impossible. That took a few months more than expected. Although the Task Force was not fully completed on 1 September 2021, it was considered sufficiently operational by the Management Committee to be able to process files and start the agreed 24-month period. So, I still foresee that the task force should be able to complete its mission on September 1st, 2023. Currently, the team of lawyers is full and five of the six file managers and administrative forces have been recruited. All six positions were filled, but a file manager left again to get a permanent contract elsewhere. That vacancy was declared open again. This has no immediate impact since the subteam currently has sufficient capacity. The capacity of task force doctors is not sufficiently filled in. At the end of May 2022 there were 1.76 full-time equivalents, 0.67 French and 1.09 Dutch. That's a risk factor. I'll come back to that later. I would like to point out that the task force's specific mission is to handle the 1,250 task force files up to and including the opinion. That's the deal. In cases where the advice results in compensation, calculating the compensation and recovery of the insurers concerned is not part of the scope of this task force. This is carried out by the permanent team of lawyers at the FMO. That is also clearly stated in the plan of action. The permanent team of lawyers at the FMO starts in the short term, after delivering the advice with the calculation of compensation. This is done on the basis of the pieces provided by the victim, which requires an effort from the patient and takes time. In cases where the fund determines liability in addition to the seriousness, the fund intervenes only after the refusal of the liable or its insurer to intervene. That is what we are talking about as far as the historical backwardness is concerned. In order to prevent the accumulation of a new backlog, I can say that these are new dossiers from 1 January 2021 and the priority dossiers. This is the primary focus of the permanent FMO team since the Task Force became operational on 1 September 2021. Since there will be new files every day, that number will never be 0. The aim is to be able to fall back into a normal operating mode without delay, so that all files are handled within a correct time frame and a reply is provided. This scope of files is being dealt with and there is currently no indication that this would lead to a further delay. At your question on how many files have been fully handled since 1 June 2021, including any payment or recovery by the FMO, I can say that 851 files have been handled in full and that damages for a total amount of EUR 12,841,951,63 have been paid in 116 different files. As for your question about the alleged number of falling files submitted to the FMO, I can tell you that in 2020 and 2021 there were fewer files with a total of 380 files than on average in previous years. Of course, the covid pandemic has had an impact on this. Non-urgent care was postponed. The cooperation between healthcare providers, mutualities and insurers was complicated by the lockdown. In 2022 we received 200 files until the end of May. If you extrapolate that number to the whole year 2022, you will get 480 files. This is similar to the years 2017 to 2019. This is also in line with the average number of files received per year since the fund was created. I'll give you another statistic. We discussed this for the first time in November 2020. That was in the plenary session shortly after my appointment as Minister. You said at the time that I inherited a serious problem. At that time, the number of open files was 34 % of all files received. Today, that number has fallen to 20% of all files. The absolute number has been increased, because hundreds of files have been added. Global statistics show a general improvement. As regards your important question about further risks of catching up, I can tell you that the task force manager, as provided for in the plan of approach close to the risks, detects and analyses and takes steps to deal with them. You certainly do not hear me saying that there would be no bottlenecks. On the contrary, I declare them. The duration of the expertise is sometimes very long. As a solution, a more rigorous follow-up of the deadlines will be sought. If these are exceeded, the experts will be contacted, in line with the escalation procedure established. Since the principle of contradiction must be followed according to the law, the fund has a limited impact to impose requirements in the contradictory expertises. A second risk factor is that the duration of receipt of the necessary supporting documents may also be long. The law provides that the FMO must wait a month before sending a reminder and then close a month before further steps may be taken, e.g. periodic penalty payments for the healthcare provider or the applicant's file. As a solution, more and more efforts are being made to receive the necessary evidence through patients or victims, who also appear to share the documents more quickly. A third risk factor is that the number of doctors available for the task force is lower than necessary according to the calculation in the approach plan. This threatens the achievement of the task force's objectives and the elimination of the backlog within the deadline set. There are three elements of solution. As a solution, available physicians were asked to increase their availability where possible. In addition, the law also allows for the entry into force of a contractual appointment in exceptional situations such as these. As a result, an additional doctor can be recruited, with a part-time appointment. Public procurement is also used to look for additional doctors. However, given the specific experience with insurance medicine and the need to avoid conflicts of interest, the result is extremely limited. As for your question about the digital follow-up of a file, the legal basis is provided for in the law on various health care provisions. As you know, it was only approved in Parliament on 13 May 2022 and recently published. You have done your utmost with your group to delay the adoption of this law, but in the end it has come. That had to be done to enable the digital processing, so I thank you for your sympathy for that. That law is now and therefore also the legal basis for making digital processing possible. The necessary steps are taken to bring this into effect quickly. The application will make it possible to submit applications digitally, to submit additional documents whenever necessary and to consult the file status online, including files previously submitted on paper. I can also reassure you that there are no indications that the task force is more expensive than planned. As far as your demand for average cost per file is concerned, I would like to point out that the cost per file is very different. Damages may range from 0 to 1 million euros. As far as the management costs of the Fund are concerned, I refer to the management budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u59	Mr President, there is a discrepancy between the figures given by Mrs Honinckx and yours, unless I am mistaken. You're talking about 1,250 cases of historical backwardness. With the calculation we have made on the basis of Mrs Honinckx's reply, only 275 opinions have been issued this year. So that's not true. There is a difference, and I would advise you to investigate it, because that is not correct information. What Mrs. Honinckx says differs from what you say. That is already an essential problem. The same applies with regard to the start of the task force. I have the report of 8 June 2021 with me and you have literally said that this task force could start on 1 June and that that task was under way. However, until 1 September is still a long time. The question also remains whether you are not contradicting yourself when it comes to handling files. You are now saying that it was your intention to deal with the task force's files for advice. Of course, the patients have no message. It is the compensation, the compensation, which is important for the patient waiting. Then it'll take you three or four more years. That's what we saw. After advice, the patients had to wait three to four years before they were paid out. De facto didn't help your procedure for the patient. The report states that you will catch up in 24 months. You say: "For the majority of the files all the required documents are present. The treatment takes several steps, carrying out internal analyses for carrying out external expertise, drawing up advice and calculating compensation." But you didn't take that last hatch. However, you promised it last year in this committee. This was one of the tasks of the task force. So that didn't happen. You do a little bit of it by saying that you've done a lot of things. You have indeed taken up a number of files, but you have not dealt with them. You have not created an answer for the patients who are waiting for compensation, for a final outcome of their file. You didn't do that today. The same applies to the digital consultation. The law is now passed, but even there the patient doesn't feel this and he can't watch. It's not here yet. Once again, there is no answer that matters effectively. My question is not how much you pay out per file, because that is, of course, very different from patient to patient. It is about how much it costs the taxpayer to go through a file. You know very well that this cost is extremely high and that the budget of the FMO is completely disharmony. My specific question is how much it costs per file to handle that. You didn't answer. That confirms my conviction that you didn't do anything about it. The cost per file last year was between 10,000 and 12,000 euros. There were as many drugs put into the FMO as the patients. It is precisely this imbalance that needs to be removed. The FMO exists for the patients. You don't have an answer for those patients today. You only have a good-looking solution on paper that is absolutely none. In a year, nothing really happened. There may have been some meetings, there are good intentions, but our patients aren't making any progress. They keep waiting and standing aside, with sometimes very serious problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u60	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Kathleen Depoorter and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the fact that the Medical Accidents Fund (FMO) has a chronic deficit in the handling of files; - having regard to the fact that a task force was set up to deal with this delay; - having regard to the fact that a task force manager has been appointed to report on this delay at regular intervals, to identify problems and, where necessary, to develop improvement projects; - having regard to the fact that additional resources and staff would be used to deal with this delay; - having regard to the fact that the FMO deficit was still not halved at the mid-term deadline of 24 months; - having regard to the fact that existing audits criticise the management by the existing Joint Management Committee of the FMO; - having regard to the fact that today the FMO belongs to the RIZIV (OISZ) with a joint management committee, while its tasks relate to the application of common civil liability law and have little to do with social security; - have heard the statements made by Ms Mia Honinx at the hearing on 8 June 2022; - having regard to the importance of smooth and streamlined operation and dossier treatment at the FMO in order to ensure optimal patient rights; asks the government - recognize that there are still major problems today with the operation and handling of the Medical Accidents Fund and to clarify in detail the main reasons for this; - recognize that the interests and rights of victims of medical accidents are affected by these problems at the FMO; - address the delay in the FMO's file-processing process as a matter of urgency and indicate the measures to be taken in order to streamline the treatment procedure; - to ensure a reasonable period of treatment for victims of medical accidents using the FMO; - make a report available to the task force manager on the subject; - procedures and costs relating to: examine in detail the handling of dossiers within the FMO and identify the problems and solutions proposed; - review the functioning of the Task Force and the additional FTEs, costs and resources; - draw up and publish a realistic timetable for the improvement and implementation of the proposed measures; - lay down a specific timetable and (interim and final) objectives within 30 days of the date on which this motion is tabled; - set up a roadmap to ensure that the FMO is no longer subject to the RIZIV in the long term and that it is no longer subject to a joint management body." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de Mme Kathleen Depoorter and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - in view of the fact that the Medical Accidents Fund (MAF) suffers from a chronic delay in the processing of cases; - in view of the fact that a working group has been set up to eliminate this delay; - in view of the fact that a director of the working group has been appointed to report regularly on this delay, identify problems and, where appropriate, develop plans for improvement; - in view of the fact that additional resources and personnel would be deployed to address this delay; - in view of the fact that, at the midpoint of the 24-month period, the backlog accumulated by the FAM has not yet been reduced by half; - in view of the fact that existing audits have made criticisms of management by the current Joint Management Committee of the FAM; - in view of the fact that the FAM is now part of the INAMI (IPSS), with a joint management committee, while its tasks relate to the application of the common law in matters of civil liability and have little to do with social security; - having heard Ms Mia Honinx's statements at the hearing on 8 June 2022; - in view of the importance of the functioning of the FAM and the processing of the files being smooth and rational in order to ensure that the patient's rights are fully respected; asks the government - to recognise that there are still significant problems with the operation and processing of the files by the Medical Accidents Fund and to explain in detail the main reasons for them; - to recognize that the problems observed within the FAM affect the interests and rights of victims of medical accidents; - urgently address the problem of delay in processing cases with the FAM and indicate what measures it intends to take to streamline the processing procedure; - to ensure a reasonable processing time for victims of medical accidents who are addressed to the FAM; - to make available a report to the director of the working group which can be consulted; - to analyse in depth the procedures and costs relating to the processing of cases within the FAM and to identify the problems and solutions proposed in this regard; - to map the functioning of the working group and the additional FTEs, costs and resources; - to develop and communicate a realistic timetable for the improvement and implementation of the measures decided; - to table a concrete time frame and objectives (intermediate and final) within a maximum of 30 days of the tabling of this motion; - to draw up a step-by-step plan to ensure that, in the long term, the FAM is no longer dependent on INAMI and is no longer subordinated to a joint management body." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée. The motion will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motion will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u61	Minister, there are field visits that mark more than others. My colleague Khalil Aouasti and I went to the ASBL Transit premises where people with substance abuse are accommodated and accommodated. Suffering is the exact term to describe the lives of men and women who have become prisoners of a substance. In May 2019, the OECD showed that, after Germany and Austria, Belgium was the third European country with the largest daily consumption of opioids per million inhabitants. Overdoses are still on the rise and field professionals have reminded us of the existence of treatment for overdoses that are still difficult to access in Belgium: naloxone. I had already asked you about this on 22 October 2021. Several complementary elements appear today. First of all, I believe that the two main companies with marketing authorisations at European level are DNE Pharma and Mundipharma. The two firms would not be present in Belgium, as there is no clear legislative framework for the use of naloxone. Then I learn that last May, the Royal Medical Academies would have given you a positive opinion on naloxone. Finally, according to my information, the Supreme Council of Health is also expected to position itself on this issue by the end of September. Minister, do you confirm that you have received a positive opinion from medical academies on the use of naloxone? If so, what does this opinion suggest? Should the Supreme Council of Health actually position itself on this issue by the end of September? As a result of these different opinions, could initiatives be taken to allow the use of naloxone in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u62	Mr President, Mr Prévot, my answer to this important question will be rather short. Indeed, I have received the opinion of the Royal Academies of Medicine, which give priority to Naloxone in the form of a nasal spray that is easily administered in an emergency. In summary, the Academies believe that specialized centres for the reception of drug addicts should be provided on the prescription of the doctors responsible. They offer certified one-hour training to train non-physicians in the administration of Naloxone and in the recognition of clinical signs of overdose. According to them, article 422 bis of the Criminal Code and the existing case law on the obligation to assist persons in immediate danger of death make it possible to take into account this vital emergency when administering medicines by a non-physician who has received appropriate training. According to them, intravenous or intramuscular forms will instead be prescribed in hospital settings and in intensive care situations. The Supreme Council of Health is working on a notice on this subject which will be published by the end of September or the beginning of October this year. So we'll have to wait a few more months. As far as I am concerned, I await this opinion in order, in collaboration with my colleagues from the federated entities, to determine a common policy for Belgium. We will certainly have an opportunity to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u63	Minister, first of all, thank you for your summary of the opinion of the Royal Academies of Medicine. I would also like to thank you for confirming that the opinion of the Higher Health Council is expected to be published at the end of September, early October. I understand that you are waiting for this opinion to discuss with the federated entities and to make a political decision at the national level. I will not fail to ask you again about the end of September or the beginning of October in order to find out how this issue is proceeding.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u64	I refer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u65	Mrs Sneppe, I believe that intimacy and sexuality have a major impact on life and quality of life during and after cancer treatment. I have taken note of Kom Op Tegen Kanker's report on sexuality and cancer, which reflects the results of an online survey from June to September 2021, on which 436 cancer patients or ex-cancer patients have responded. As the authors of the report indicate themselves, the group of persons who have completed the questionnaire is not representative of the entire group of cancer patients and ex-cancer patients. The questioning was mainly answered by people who have experienced problems themselves in terms of sexuality and intimacy. The survey has highlighted a number of bottlenecks, on the basis of which Kom Op Op Tegen Kanker has developed recommendations, especially in the field of communication with the patient. In the past, a number of policy initiatives have already been taken under the Cancer Plan to optimise communication with the patient and psychological support. Hospitals with an oncological care programme receive funding for psychologists based on the number of multidisciplinary consultations carried out in the hospital. In case of problems related to quality of life and impact of diagnosis and treatment, patients may use this psychological support. In addition, for communication with patients, two oncopsychology organisations, the Cédric Hèle Institute and the Centre de Psycho-Oncologie, are financed for the organisation of training courses for healthcare professionals in communication with cancer patients. These courses also focus on the theme of sexuality. Any adjustments to the basic training of healthcare professionals are not my competence, but, of course, communication with patients is an important part of the training of healthcare professionals. Kom Op Tegen Kanker's report can already contribute to raising awareness among healthcare professionals to proactively inform and question the patient about possible problems with sexuality. Soon some of the people from Kom Op Tegen Kanker will come together with my staff to discuss that report. I'll see where I can help. You had a second set of questions. As far as the importance of route guidance is concerned, today there is already a healthcare programme aimed at cancer patients. Within this programme, the patient is approached in a global way with due attention to prevention, diagnosis, treatment and palliative care. In oncology the care programs exist oncological basic care, oncology and breast cancer. These care programmes place a strong emphasis on the consultation between the care providers concerned about the individual patient and work multidisciplinary and transversal. The budget of financial resources to hospitals provides for the funding of additional nurses, psychologists and social workers in those oncological care programmes to better surround and care for hospitalised cancer patients. Since 1 July 2008, hospitals with a recognised oncology care programme have been additionally financially supported by the cancer plan through the funding of additional staff, nurses, onc-psychologists and social workers and data managers. The last one since 2009. Since 1 January 2011, it has been expanded with dietists. Current practice shows that there are differences in the use of the additional staff, in this case the nurses. Some hospitals have opted for an additional use of so-called oncocoaches. Other institutions have opted to use the financial resources for the use of oncology nurses in the different departments. I read in the cancer barometer that there is a call for a significant increase in the proportion of patients who have access to an oncocoach, a social worker, a physiotherapist, an oncodieist and an oncopsychologist during their stay at the hospital. If you are prepared to give this priority, the question is: I intend to review the care path for oncology and promote multidisciplinary and transmural care, so that broad support is also provided in the first-line care with attention to the psychosocial aspect and coordination. You ask what the plan of action is. A working group analyses the current organisation and funding of oncological care and thus lays the basis for developing a horizontal care path or a care path for the oncological patient. This is not an easy exercise, because we are dealing here with the funding mechanism of hospitals and the organisation of the so-called multidisciplinary oncology consultation and because we need to build a bridge to first-line care. It is difficult to attach a very precise timing to that. The administration is working on it with the external partners involved. Coincidentally, I've been sitting with the administration on that one very recently. I have been reported on the state of play in the care pathway oncological care. I have also insisted on working on it as quickly as possible. My administration already has a lot to do, but I think it is a very important point. You also had questions about the aftercare process. My answer may disappoint you a little more. The aftercare consultation to which you refer has not been included in the multiannual budget of the RIZIV. I am now explaining to you how that is and what method we have followed. For the period 2022-2024 priority health objectives were first identified. A multiannual budget path for health insurance was then established. Several task forces were involved. The emphasis was actually on appropriate care, the right care in the right place at the right time. 300 proposals were submitted, examined and ranked, including the aftercare consultation. In the end, only 15 concrete project development initiatives were selected in 2022 within a multidisciplinary and transversal framework. The proposal you are referring to, Mrs Sneppe, is therefore not included in the list. It is therefore also a little difficult to answer your additional questions in this respect. I think that if we work out an oncology care pathway, we will take a piece that is immediately the inspiration for the aftercare consultation into account in the development of that care pathway. So it is not completely lost, but it has not become a specific project in itself. I hope I have been able to convince you that I think all this is important. I think we share that belief. So you can certainly question me about that later. However, its impact will take considerable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u66	Mr Minister, I understand from your answer to my first question that there is financial support for the mentoring of cancer patients, but on the field, when I speak to cancer patients, I find that little can be seen. Apparently, there is already a financial flow to hospitals and care providers to assist patients and communicate well about sexuality, but that does not seep enough. Perhaps you should apply some pressure to ensure that the funds that are intended for this purpose are used properly. In the course guidance we also see the same picture. The care programme provides for route guidance, but what I hear from cancer patients shows that there is still a lot of work to be done in this area. I have to check the figures, but I think half of the cancer patients are not receiving any or insufficient guidance. That's undersized. Especially in view of the increasing number of cancer patients, there is a need to step up. It is very unfortunate that the follow-up has not been included in the RIZIV multiannual programme. I find that difficult to understand; you can rest assured that I will follow up on the matter and that I will certainly ask you further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u67	Minister, as from 1 August, a new regulation on the reimbursement of distance consultations with doctors will come into force, i.e. by telephone or videoconferencing. I have a few more questions about that. When I look at the conditions that must be met, it seems as if the distance consultations can be used for everything. Does that mean that a remote diagnosis can also be made? Or does it only apply to follow-up interviews, after an initial diagnosis? Apparently, such a remote consultation can also be attested after reference to second-line care. Shouldn't physical consultation with the physician-specialist precede this? What about contacting a guard doctor? Doesn't there have to be a prior physical examination? Should the doctor provide a separate time-block for remote consultations or can the consultations also take place during ordinary physical consultations with other patients? In what way will you check that the scheme is not abused? In what way is the brake charge supposed to be collected? A number of platforms are displayed on the eHealth website. However, the platform Docktr, developed by Proximus, is not included. Can you explain whether there are certain reasons for this and, if so, what?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u68	Mrs Gijbels, a new framework for distance consultations with doctors will enter into force on 1 August. The following clarifications apply here. Firstly, a teleconsultation can be used for both follow-up consultation and initial diagnosis. The doctor should determine whether a teleconsultation is appropriate for the question asked. He therefore has the right to refuse a teleconsultation if a physical consultation is offered as an alternative. Secondly, the general rule is that distance consultations can only be charged if there is already an existing treatment relationship between the physician and the patient. These are consultations with the doctor holding the GMD, with another doctor of his practice or if there has been physical contact during the two calendar years preceding the distance consultation. However, in specific cases, a specialist doctor may conduct a teleconsultation without prior physical contact, in particular if a patient has been referred to him. The physician-specialist should indicate in the report of the consultation who the referring physician was. An additional condition for the physician specialist is that he should have access to the patient's medical records. In addition, teleconsultations may also take place during the organised GP watch service without prior physical consultation. On your third question, the doctor is free in his planning and should not provide separate blocks for teleconsultations. On your fourth question, the use of the four new codes will be monitored. Special attention will be paid to outsiders, especially doctors with a high percentage of teleconsultations. In the case of global budget overruns, it is possible to reduce fees by means of a key letter change. For your fifth question, I would like to refer to the answer I gave on 27 April to a similar question from you. Indeed, the introduction of brake fees for teleconsultations has been chosen to prevent patients from choosing a teleconsultation for financial reasons, while in many cases physical consultation remains the most appropriate. It was also a recommendation of the reflection group not to favour remote consultations over physical consultations. In the case of videoconsultations, it is certainly technically possible to collect the personal share in an efficient way. Through the video consultation it is possible to show a QR code with refund data to the patient. Several healthcare professions have been working in this way for a long time. In addition, some video consultation platforms now have a payment module that allows the physician to send a payment request to the patient and also receive an immediate notification when the payment has been made. Although it is relatively easy to send a payment request to the patient via digital means, this indeed poses a greater organisational challenge in the case of a telephone consultation. The doctor may also choose to collect the brake fee only at a subsequent physical consultation. In your sixth question, platforms must meet a number of minimum conditions in order to comply with data protection regulations. The evaluation of the platforms offered on the portal took place two years ago on the basis of the criteria laid down at the time. Following the COVID-19 crisis and the rapid evolution of telemedicine, a number of criteria have recently been refined. At present, all initiatives, including existing ones, are evaluated on the basis of the appropriate criteria. A number of questions were asked at the Docktr platform with a view to a well-founded evaluation. Finally, one of the conclusions of the Van den Bruel-Belche reflection group was that the discussion on distance consultations is inextricably linked to a broader debate on the financing and organizational model of general practitioners in particular. Remote consultations will be examined in substance in the context of this work. I myself called it the New Deal for GPs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u69	Minister, I think there is certainly room for distance consultations with the general practitioners and other care providers. I have some difficulty with the fact that a remote diagnosis is apparently possible. For most diagnoses, I think we really need physical contact. One must be able to palpate, auscult, even smell. Does the Order of Doctors have an opinion on when a teleconsultation can and when not? I suppose most doctors will handle this correctly and ask patients to be physically present, if a teleconsultation is more difficult or not appropriate. On the other hand, I believe that patients themselves are often asking not to attend the physical consultation. I therefore hope that the instrument will be properly followed and that this will not undermine the profession of general practitioner. With him/her one often has a relationship of trust. The doctor also carries out the triage. I also continue to have difficulty with the fact that remote consultations can also take place in second-line and watchkeeping services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u70	I'm not asking the question polemically, but because I care. You're worried because the arrangement would be too flexible? It is a new framework which, as far as I am concerned, should be temporary. We need to think carefully about how we will fund remote consultations so that this tool gets the right incentives. But I appreciate what you're saying. I believe that the only way to resolve the issue is through a broader reform, to be honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u71	For the sake of clarity, to deal with administrative matters or to follow up on matters, the remote consultation may even be an added value, but I remain concerned about that possibility for diagnosis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u72	Mr President, Minister, ECMO is a technique that increases oxygen levels in the blood by means of extracorporal circulation to support respiratory function and/or circulation. The technique is mainly used in intensive wards in patients with severe heart and/or lung failure. During the covid pandemic, many patients were able to use ECMO and possibly save lives. At the same time, however, the technology is very serious with large risks and is not cheap either. This means that a good framework and organisation are very important. The Knowledge Centre recently published a report to map ECMO usage in Belgium. The conclusion is that there is no clear picture of how ECMO is applied in Belgium, mainly because there is no systematic and complete record of patient data, including indications, duration of treatment and possible complications. A complete list of data to be recorded is also listed in the report of the Knowledge Centre. I have a number of questions about this. The Knowledge Centre considered using the ELSO register, which is an international register, for the collection and analysis of data. However, it seems that there are very few Belgian hospitals contributing to that register. Why are ECMO data not recorded by all hospitals in a standardised manner? Do you think that's desirable? If so, what will you do to improve registration? For example, is the MICA system, which is also used for intensive care in different hospitals, to collect data? The cost of ECMO does not appear to have any useful data. A survey shows that the current reimbursement rates in Belgium do not cover the costs of using ECMO technology. How do you see the financing of ECMO? The technique is applied in a large number of Belgian hospitals, but not every hospital applies the technique equally. Do you consider a centralisation of ECMO in certain hospitals desirable? An efficient system for transferring patients between hospitals would also be necessary, for example through mobile ECMO teams, as these are very fragile transports. How do you feel about such a system? How do you think this can be financed? Finally, how would you like to organise the implementation of ECMO in the future? Are there any further evaluations planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, your first question was how we are going to collect these data. In fact, in its report 255A of 8 June 2022, the KCE gives a lead, referring to the ELSO guidelines, of the International Extracorporeal Life Support Organization. The ELSO register contains very valuable tools, within the highly specialised care that ECMO is. So I also assume that these will be used. Such scientific registers are the source of evidence-based medicine and should therefore be promoted. The registration burden within the hospital environment is already very high. To introduce additional compulsory registrations, I would do so with some caution. In fact, one should reason in terms of automating registrations and having them fed directly from the electronic patient records of registration systems. You're referring to MICA. MICA has succeeded in part. MICA is a quality benchmarking tool for service-intensive medicine. A number of hospitals have managed to automate this tool. Others still use this tool in a craft way, by post factum manual entry of data. During the covid crisis, the HTSC tried to get data faster through the MICA project. However, this piste proved, partly because of the design of MICA as a quality tool, a piste with little added value for managing the pandemic. The cooperation between the HTSC and the MICA project team has been discontinued. You asked about the financing of ECMO. My answer to that question is in line with my answer to the question whether ECMO should be present in every Belgian hospital. This is in line with the broader debate on defining critical care units and differentiation within ICU services. ECMO is a highly specialised therapeutic option that cannot be offered in quality without the necessary framework, i.e. specialist doctors and perfusionists. ECMO cannot be offered in centres where only sporadic ECMO is being launched. The real ECMO should therefore be reserved as a therapy form within reference hospitals. These reference hospitals can also guarantee transport capacity and mobile ECMO teams. A further reflection that I have launched on the organisation of the intensive concerns in our country should clarify the optimal organisation and financing of these intensive concerns. The reflection around ECMO fits perfectly into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u74	Indeed, we should not go to additional registrations, but to automation of data collection. If there are existing systems, such as the MICA system, there must be maximum facilitation, so that these systems can also deliver useful output and be exploited from it. You rightly want to evolve into a landscape where the ECMO is offered by specialised centres. Which centers will that be? The data collected in the covid crisis must now be analysed as much as possible. Then we need to look at where the most experience and expertise is built up. It is possible to proceed from there instead of imposing the reference hospitals on the top of the list. That is where the covid crisis offers an opportunity to maximize the experience that has arisen in addition. I look forward to further evolution and will certainly be happy to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u75	The Royal Decree of 10 September 2021 on the medical permanence of general practitioners and the recognition of functional partnerships imposes a number of conditions. For example, a partnership for sentries can be recognised if it consists of at least 3 sentries and at least 300,000 inhabitants, with at least 1 sentries accessible during the medical permanence. In the agreement on medical funds 2022-2023, the entry into force of the Royal Decree was postponed until 1 July, as the overload of the general practitioners did not allow sufficient time to be invested in the concrete administrative and legal preparation of the partnerships. A number of conditions would not yet be met. A transitional period of 18 months would be envisaged, which would mean that the partnerships would have to be submitted by 31 March 2023 in order to be operational by 1 January 2024 at the latest. What's the status? Did the Royal Decree enter into force on 1 July? Is there any consultation with the general practitioners about this? What are their concerns? What can be remediated? What are the stumbling blocks? What will be the future financing of the sentries' partnerships? When will it be known? How will the teams for sentries relate to the emergency services? Should they be near emergency services? Do you think 1 guard station per 300,000 inhabitants is sufficient? What about the roll-out of the triage by 1733? Is it available everywhere or is there still a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u76	Mrs Gijbels, the Royal Decree of Recognition came into force on 1 July, but the KB sister concerning the financing of functional partnerships is still in full development and consultation. Recognition can only be obtained when both royal decrees have been published. From the beginning of 2024, the whole country should be covered by partnerships. That timeline and the way of working have been agreed in the national medical fund agreement 2022-2023. Basically, I wanted to give you some time. There is intensive consultation within the guidance platform Wait. In this platform are representatives of the field, medical syndicates, insurance institutions, my strategic cell, the FOD and the RIZIV. I think I have said before that I appointed Frank Lippens, the former director of the Deinze hospital, as chairman, because I think he is very competent to discuss the many difficult issues. The future financing of the partnerships will depend on the discussions within this platform. A calendar of meetings has been drawn up and funding options are discussed on a subject-by-matter basis. The government wants to encourage cooperation between the sentries and hospitals, but it is not an obligation to settle in a hospital. However, I do notice the tendency of the recently established GPs to work closely with a hospital. When forming a partnership, it is preferable that at least one of the participating general practitioner's wards should be in or near a hospital. The Royal Decree of Recognition states that a grouping must consist of a minimum of three sentries and a minimum of 300,000 inhabitants. Exceptions are possible for reasons of geographical distribution and/or population density. In these cases, a minimum of two sentries and a minimum of 225,000 inhabitants can suffice. One of the points highlighted in the guidance platform is the need for a good triage by 1733. That is not yet available everywhere. The inhibiting factor in the roll-out is the difficult recruitment of personnel faced by the FPS Home Affairs, the employer of emergency power plant operators. A full roll-out of the triage via 1733 will require an additional budget to recruit additional operators. However, I also note that the budget made available by IBS today cannot yet be fully used, just because of the difficult recruitment of the operator profiles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u77	So I understand there's still plenty of conversations going on. As far as functional partnerships are concerned, they have been set up to make the organisation of watchkeeping more profitable. I should like to warn you that they must also be sufficiently accessible. It would be crazy if patients had to pass a number of emergency services first and then find a first guard. We must ensure that the threshold for the general practitioner's post is always lower than the threshold for the emergency service. I think that's where the real efficiency gains can be found. The triage by 1733 has been a long-standing problem. I also understood from Mrs De Block, your predecessor, that there was a particular problem in the search for sufficient staff. That's more of a problem with the Home Office. However, it is also something that raises the threshold for the general practitioner's watch post, because it is often a telephone number that costs a lot of money. You can also be on the phone for a long time. I believe that these are matters which deserve priority if we are to ensure that our resources are used properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u78	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u79	How do you support the hospital network in its computer recovery?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u80	(...) The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) was contacted and immediately deployed an incident response team to assist the Vivalia group, in good cooperation with the eHealth platform and the SPF Santé. This team worked with the Vivalia Group's IT department and the Regional Computer Crime Unit (RCCU) to identify the entry point of the cyberattack and collect evidence. The CWB also provided advice to the IT team on how to respond and implement corrective measures, including through the establishment of a Security Operations Center with a third party to help them monitor the environment. Assistance was also provided on the organizational aspects of the ICT crisis. Daily incident coordination meetings were planned between the parties concerned in the weeks following the attack. Through the various initiatives, the state is trying to support all hospitals, as none of them is immune to cyberattacks. Currently, a budget of $20 million has been released for 2022 and 2023 to help hospitals better arm themselves preventively and face up during and after the attack. At my request, the Federal Council of Hospital Establishments (CFEH) proposed an approach to increase the resilience of hospitals against cyberattacks. Target actions include raising staff awareness, measuring hospital maturity based on an international standard (ISO 27002) and developing and implementing improvement processes on this basis, stimulating cooperation and knowledge sharing between hospitals, joint development of expertise and rapid intervention options, and the development of a common SOC to prevent data leakage and prevent, detect and respond to attacks. The problem of hospital insurability will also be studied in close collaboration. Safety of institutions, staff, patients, and continuity of care are a priority. In particular, there are emergency procedures that must be described in a hospital emergency plan in order to deal with major accidents within and outside the hospital. In addition, in order to develop an incident response plan, a toolbox has been created and contains a set of information and material from the CWB to assist hospitals. Some hospitals, unfortunately victims of a cyber attack, have agreed to share their experience and lessons learned. Attention points were also highlighted, ranging from technical solutions for hospital connections, both internally and externally, to good practices. In addition to our regular contacts with Vivalia in the context of this crisis, we had a meeting with Vivalia's management and presidency, at which they explained to us in detail the problems they had encountered and their needs and we expressed our support. Vivalia has gradually restarted its activities, rebuilding its computer systems safely. To date, most of the operational activity and consultations have resumed in their hospitals. All elective operations, i.e. non-emergency, are carried out at their sites in Arlon, Bastogne, Libramont and Marche. Consultations are also carried out in their general hospitals – and psychiatric hospitals in Bertrix – with exceptions being resolved and on which their teams focus their efforts. I can assure you that they have worked and are still working on the resumption of the activity with great attention, on the impact on the care, their patients and their staff, while working with the care providers and the care institutions of the Region. Finally, directly after the cyberattack, the group decided to communicate internally on the evolution of the situation through an internal Facebook page, in order to reach and inform its staff as best as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u81	Mr Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, which I think is quite complete. I still remember a sentence that is quite right but frightens a bit: "No hospital is safe from a cyber attack anymore." My question may simply go beyond the scope of Vivalia and we are no longer really in health but in the protection of patients' personal data. It must be recognized that there is an increasing tendency to use digital technology to manage patient records, so much so that Vivalia, like other hospitals that were probably under attack, was out of work as a result of theft of the data and viruses they were likely to have received on that occasion. In your policy, you further emphasize this use of the preservation, centralization of this data and the internal and secure sharing of patient data. Despite all the precautions taken, this kind of attack will only multiply. You have already explained to me the answers given to it, but I think that it is still necessary not only to strengthen the security of ultra-sensitive data, since in the field of health we are in ultra-sensitive personal data, but also and above all to continue to define and enhance the precise protocol in response to these attacks which, you said, will not fail to happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u82	Minister, Paxlovid seems to be able to deliver good results. It's only prescribed by specialists today. I would like to ask whether, in the run-up to the winter, this means cannot be opened up to rules by general practitioners. Will you make it possible for general practitioners to prescribe Paxloid? If so, when? If not, what are your arguments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u83	Mrs Depoorter, I will give a fairly brief answer, but not because I do not think this is important. I believe that, in our strategy against COVID-19, we have reached a stage in which we can and must attach increasing importance to therapeutic agents. In a situation where the number of infections is not increasing explosively, but in which this situation is being dealt with for a long time, I believe that therapeutic agents are becoming increasingly important. I would nevertheless like to refer to what Steven Van Gucht said this afternoon. I believe it was his personal assessment. He was a little hesitant after all. I'll leave it to him, but he was a little hesitant about Paxloid's great additional expectations. I do not know if it is right, the opinions on this matter are still being formed. Let me say that I attach particular importance to the fact that our Task Force COVID Therapeutics, led by Dirk Ramaekers, is trying to play briefly on the ball. He must quickly see what we can and should do in addition. Then it is both about how one uses it and about how much one needs and where one finds it. I believe that all these elements are important. At the moment we can say in our country that they are particularly highly immunocompromised patients who are most at risk of hospitalisation. Therefore, Paxlovid is now initially used in that group, to avoid hospitalisation, with prescription by the treating specialist. Suppose we find that there is an evolution in the perspective of the epidemic, in the impact or in the science of Paxloid, then we should be prepared to expand the target group and engage other prescribers, including the general practitioners. I do not have any a priori on this point, but I would like the task force COVID Therapeutics to guide us and point the way on the basis of scientific evidence. I also do not rule out the fact that this is evolving relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u84	Minister, that really needs to be considered or evaluated. Professor Van Gucht has indeed referred to the liver load of ritonavir, which is in Paxlvid. However, it is also used against HIV and there too one can estimate the impact on impaired liver function. I fully agree with you that we will have to make use of all the therapeutic possibilities we have in the autumn. The GP can perfectly estimate a impaired liver function of his patients and thus proceed to prescribing Paxlvid or not. That expertise is present. The constant burden on specialists seems to me less efficient towards winter. It is good that you put it on the agenda and that it is being evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u85	Minister, the care centre after sexual violence in Leuven was opened, the seventh care centre for victims of sexual violence in our country. You announced that three new centres will be set up in 2023. The details of these centres are in fact in line with the policy you have developed. Mr Minister, are resources from the so-called white blouse fund used to train the staff of the care centres for victims of sexual violence? To what extent is psychological follow-up provided for the victims? How is this follow-up monitored and evaluated? Is there a special approach for minors or for victims of intra-family sexual violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u86	Mrs Depoorter, as regards your first question, with the funds from the care staff fund, the care staff of the care centres will be financed after sexual violence. In 2021, no funding was provided from the Care Staff Fund for training costs. From 2022 onwards, the salary of forensic nurses and psychologists for the month preceding the opening of a new care centre after sexual violence will also be financed by the care staff fund. In that month the forensic nurses and psychologists are trained for their function within the care center. In 2022, that funding will be provided for the care centre in Roeselare and in Leuven. In previous years, these costs were borne by the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. Your second question concerns the psychological follow-up. All victims affected by the violence less than a month ago are offered an offer of follow-up by a psychologist from the center. It concerns access to the session on psychoeducation and, if necessary, the treatment of stress symptoms to prevent post-traumatic stress disorders. Psychologists follow a ZSG trading plan for the follow-up of victims using specific tools, such as the PCL-5, the DSM-5 post-traumatic stress disorder checklist, referring to the classification of psychiatric disorders. The number of sessions is tailored to the victim's needs, with a maximum of twenty sessions. The 2021 annual report shows that 45% of the victims return to the centre for a minimum of one session. 75% of this will stop after four consultations. A specific trade plan for care for minor victims is used in a care centre. This trade plan places extra emphasis on protection and safety and multidisciplinary consultation, both within the hospital and with the actors outside, such as the Child Abuse Trust Centre or SOS Enfants. Minors have access to the same care as adults.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is good that the funds of the fund for the white blouse are now actually being used. I do not think it is within the remit of the IGM to cover the costs of staff and training. It was registered in the law and it is good that it is now being applied. With regard to psychological care, we also saw early retirement among self-employed workers in the corona period. That's too bad. This means that the victims do not feel fully helped or surrounded by the psychological sessions. Three-fourths of people stop after four sessions, while they can get 20. That's a lot. The evaluation should consider how this psychological framework can be optimally organized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u88	Mr. Secretary, I have the information from The Lancet. A study has been published on the effectiveness of stepped-up healthcare and the implementation of so-called collaborative models. Researchers decided that there was a reduction in depression in patients. In this case, asylum seekers or refugees were involved and, in comparison with the traditional approach, this trampled health model achieves better results. In particular, the direct implementation of interventions in certain target groups has achieved significant success. This explains to a large extent the difference in the effectiveness of different strategies. It breaks a lance to focus more on the treatment of severely depressed people and treat them as a separate target group. Through a tailor-made approach one is able to improve the effectiveness of mental health. What importance do you attach to the results of that investigation? Is a stepped-up care or SCCM considered for certain target groups in our country? Was there an evaluation made? Is it for the current mental health care of asylum seekers, refugees and war victims? You have indicated that this psychological care is provided for. How do you evaluate it today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u89	By analogy with The Lancet, the World Health Organisation, in its reports, always recommends that the organisation of mental health care should take place from a staged model. It also recommends the implementation of models where cooperation between different disciplines is central. For this reason, the protocol agreement, approved in the IMC on the coordinated approach to strengthening the mental health supply, is based in the first line on a number of core values. For example, the changing needs of every citizen are the starting point over the life stages, from birth to birth, the development of the child, transition to adulthood and of adults and older people. The organisational model provides a kicked care offering with the following functions: prevention, including relapse and symptom reduction, detection, demand clarification, early and short-term interventions, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation/restoration, as well as knowledge sharing and expertise sharing. In addition, it is important that care and assistance are integrated through multidisciplinary and cross-cutting cooperation between all actors and supported through multidisciplinary consultation and a shared trading plan, communication and referral system. Within the framework of the protocol agreement, approved in the IMC, and stepped-up care, the RIZIV Convention was developed in which two care functions are financed. It concerns the first-line psychological care function and the specialist psychological care function. The starting point is to identify people's needs as early as possible. If the need is limited to support for mild to moderate complaints, care is provided on the basis of a first-line psychological care function. If the problems or complaints are moderate to severe, or if the course of treatment within the framework of the first-line psychological care function shows that the need is greater and a more specialised treatment is needed, the specialised psychological care function can be used. Asylum seekers, refugees and war victims are specific vulnerable target groups, with clinical psychologists working together with services that take care of these target groups. Following the war in Ukraine, these refugees also have access to psychological support and it was decided to make the intercultural mediators available via videoconference, both for psychological care in the first line and for the mobile teams of the networks mental health care. So far, my general response to your questions and suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u90	Mr Minister, just the last part is a new element and was also the subject of my question. When we talk about the refugees from Ukraine, I wonder whether we can apply this step-by-step system sufficiently. We can't do prevention anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u91	Mr President, Mrs Depooster, I did not understand. Can you repeat the question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u92	When we talk about the people who come from Ukraine and are being received, I wonder if we can apply this step-by-step system to the best of our ability. We can't do prevention. Detection's hard, too. Can we go deep enough and give sufficient support to those involved? Is that monitored? Is there room for improvement? That is the essence of my question. If we are working effectively in other areas of mental health, the question is whether we are working adequately for the refugees from Ukraine through that stepped-up system. Can we set even closer target groups there and really cause severe depression? That is the challenge. All concerned will arrive with a scar caused by the war. Will we or will we not be able to look deeply enough into whether there is a need for mental health care for the scars that need to be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u93	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, I may have something to say about the concerns. There are now a dozen of them, which we financially support through the RIZIV and in which general practitioners work together, but in which psychological support can also be provided. They are not comprehensive, but they offer a partial response. Of course, it's about a specific group. There is a language barrier and a specific situation, which only intervenes at a certain point in time. I fully agree with that. That is a discussion that we still need to deepen. We need to look at the causes of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u94	Mr President, Minister, I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u95	Mr President, my question about the WHO Research Committee on the subject. In the meantime, monkey pox is pretty dated. So we'd better drop them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament 55028963C by Mrs Depoorter is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u97	Mr President, both Mr Gijbels and I have tabled a question on the research of the KCE, focusing on the medical aspect of the treatment of ovarian cancer. It is a serious finding that your chances of survival depend on which hospital is being treated. Ovarian cancer is a silent killer. The disease is very deep in the abdomen and is often diagnosed only at an advanced stage in the disease process. Is there provision for home treatment of ovarian cancer with chemotherapeutic agents, as is already the case with some breast cancer projects? That would greatly increase the patient's comfort. Is there a protocol for a multidisciplinary approach? Are you willing to make the differences in treatment, including in the chemotherapeutics used, public? The report also mentions unnecessary or ill-thought-out interventions, where medical treatment is better. Will you take action on this? Will you modify the recording mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u98	Mr Minister, I would particularly like to talk about the quality indicators that the KCE report reports on, namely the quality indicators for selecting and measuring the care for ovarian cancer. The Knowledge Centre recommends concentrating care and reference centres and recommends considering how information on the quality of ovarian cancer care, as well as other cancer care, can be made available to the public so that patients can have access to information on the quality of care when choosing a hospital. In Flanders this already happens for certain quality indicators in certain cancer types through the Flemish Institute for Quality of Care. I come to my questions. What are your views on making results on quality indicators, cancer care available to the public, and in this case ovarian cancer care? Will you consider whether this information can indeed be made available to the public? What initiatives have already been taken? Previously, the Knowledge Centre also advocated concentrating the care for ovarian cancer. What actions have been taken to achieve this since then? Does every hospital where women with ovarian cancer are treated meet the criteria proposed in the 2014 report of the Knowledge Centre? What concrete actions will you take to take into account the recommendations of the Centre of Knowledge? Are you interested in combining ovarian cancer care in reference centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u99	Colleagues, there are no reference or expertise centres for ovarian cancer in our country so far. The KCE conducted a study on quality indicators in the approach to ovarian cancer. The result of that study was published on 29 June and shows that care concentration for ovarian tumours is primordial. For ovarian cancer, an association is established between the volumes, i.e. the number of patients, who treat hospitals and the survival rates. Belgium clearly has too wide a range of care and expertise. The associations we see between the volumes and the results therefore call for a concentration of care for patients with invasive ovarian cancer in centres of expertise, as is the case in other European countries such as the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands and Sweden. My administration studies the results of the study and looks at the possibilities and modalities for concentrating care. With regard to chemotherapeutics in home treatment, negotiations to establish a structural framework and financing of home hospitalization are still ongoing. In the meantime, the definition of home hospitalization has been enshrined in the law. Within the ongoing discussions, a proposal is on the table to allow the parenteral administration of medicinal products in the context of antitumour treatment in the patient's living environment under certain conditions. I had hoped that the consultation could have reached an agreement sooner, but it is an innovative and transversal project involving many actors and the budgetary picture is not simple either. The ambition is to achieve this by the end of this year. You ask whether a multidisciplinary approach to the protocol for this condition has been drawn up. The 2016 KCE report 268 provided clear guidelines for the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of patients with ovarian cancer, based on scientific evidence. This report certainly focuses on the multidisciplinary approach and patient centered care. Following these guidelines is not enforced, but recommended. Also, for all cancer patients, and not only for ovarian cancer patients, one or more MOCs are provided and refunded. These MOCs or multidisciplinary oncological consultations have been established in our hospitals for 20 years and have stimulated consultation between healthcare providers and improved the quality of care. This isn't your own praise. This dates back to my previous period on Social Affairs, but I think it was a good reform after all. I now come to the questions about the differences in outcome, survival and healing at different institutions or medical teams. My administration is studying the KCE report, which was delivered only on 29 June. The report notes that the number of patients with ovarian cancer treated by a hospital on an annual basis has a significant impact on the quality of care and patient survival. All hospitals that treated ovarian patients between 2014 and 2018 receive a personal feedback report from the Belgian Cancer Register, which centralises and analyses the data. That allows benchmarking and self-evaluation. I don't mean to make the data of individual hospitals public. You ask me if I will take steps to avoid inappropriate or ill-considered operations. The KCE report recommends that surgery be performed preferentially in some reference and expertise centres, because surgical removal of the tumor and lymph nodes should be done very carefully and with expertise. This will be included in the proposal for a concentration of care. Finally, there was the question of how much the registration mechanism is up-to-date. All hospitals have data managers, government-educated and funded, which transmit a number of data on tumour biology, tumour stage, treatment and so on to the Cancer Register. In its report, the KCE proposes to extend this data registration for ovarian tumours. My services review the recommendations of the KCE report and consult with experts, hospitals and the Cancer Register.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u100	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Unfortunately, I haven't heard everything, because I was looking up business, but I will rehearse your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u101	I fully understand that a complete plan has not yet been drawn up. It is therefore a recent report. However, it is a report which deserves the necessary attention. If the concentration of care has such a significant impact on survival rates, these are matters that are important for individual lives and for people. We'll have to work on it. We are also evolving into a society in which measuring care quality is important, not only for benchmarking, because I do not agree with you on that, but also to disclose such figures, especially when the data that the quality of care measures represent the situation in a fair and thoughtful way. The difficulty of pathologies entering a particular hospital must also be taken into account. So we need to put up a transparent picture for patients so that they can make a good choice for a particular hospital. This can only promote the quality of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u102	Mr Minister, in the meantime, the KCE has published the report on its screening of the different therapies for covid and long covid. Some of them get a less good assessment. How are these results communicated to healthcare providers? Do they get a letter? Do they have to look it up themselves? The funds examined are still prescribed today, perhaps with the best of intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u103	I would prefer to give the answer to these questions in writing, because there are complex things that need to be mentioned. I will mention a few things very quickly and then I will deliver the text to you. The advice for the purchase, distribution and use of COVID-19 medicinal products is formulated by the Covid Therapeutics Task Force. You will find it on the Task Force's website. The guidance for the general practitioners led by the KCE and for the hospital specialists led by the infectiologists is regularly kept up-to-date. You can find them on the websites of the Task Force, the Belgian Association for Infectious Diseases and Sciensano, among others. The task force regularly monitors the use of the medicines and the need for additional orders. If necessary, it shall make an additional opinion. Advice and guidance for general practitioners and hospital specialists shall indicate, by medicinal product or dietary supplement, the state of play of the clinical evidence and the recommendation based on it. It can be negative or rather negative, and so it is mentioned. For example, there is an advice for several medicines not to use them. I refer to the website, of which I will hand you the list. Sometimes there is no evidence and one falls back on general advice, for example around supplements and the intake of vitamin D, for example in the Folia Pharmacotherapeutics for vitamin. The communication with the doctors is done via the BCFI, Folia's website and specifically for the general practitioners through the GPs' associations, the Domus Medica website and a newsletter. Mr President, I suggest that you include these websites in the report. It's pointless to read all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u104	We'll see if that's practically possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u105	Minister, the problem is that patients still come to get medicines and food supplements, whether prescribed or not, often after word of mouth advertising, while there is no evidence of their usefulness. Vitamin D itself can't hurt, but one shouldn't take too much of it either. It is important that all healthcare providers are clearly communicated as to why it is less appropriate and where one should really pay attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u106	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Questions Nos 55028984C and 55028986C by Mr Prévot 55028988C and 55029049C by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u107	Minister, I would like to return to this subject, which has a long history. Unfortunately, we were unable to include sexologists in the proposal on the recognition of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues, since the field of education was still very divided at that time. In the meantime, a number of years have passed. Covid has reinforced this problem. We have sensed that it is justified to recognise sexologists as they can add value to patients' health. The advice of the Supreme Health Council is a number of years old, but still forms a good basis. You said you wanted to build on that. You were also going to submit that to the Federal Council of GGZ. The GGZ has, in my opinion, come up with a disappointing text of vision. However, there are a number of points which are in line with the advice of the High Health Council, in which it is stated that specialised care is needed and that an autonomous profession specialising in sexual care needs to be established. A number of credits are also discussed and there may also be a number of supported professions. This morning we had this discussion with Mr Van Hoof. It is also said that transitional measures will be needed, because there is a lot of expertise in the field. It must also be for professionals and certainly in accordance with the quality law, which was dealt with here last week. You said at the time that there was room for additional care professions. It must be possible to define quality in this respect. You have always waited to build on the advice or vision text of the federal council. How do we proceed with this? What initiative will you take? You know that there are a number of proposals here based on the advice of the High Health Council of a number of years ago to recognise them, including in the WUG Act. How do you proceed with the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u108	Mr Minister, the framework has been recalled by my colleague Mrs Muylle. The opinion of the Higher Health Council (SHC) of December 2016 was extremely clear. You regularly repeat that you should take as a basis the scientific recommendations. I read again: "The function of a clinician sexologist must therefore be legally regulated in order to enable everyone to find a quality offer of sexual health care. We need recognition of the clinical sexologist as an autonomous health profession in health care, as well as the establishment of a control structure for the creation and monitoring of a code of ethics." This is what the CSS said in the conclusion and in its recommendation in 2016. It complements, of course, with regard to those who exercise and have already practiced sexology to date. The dossier was particularly substantiated, not only with a benchmarking at European level, but also with a reminder of existing trainings including master's degrees in sexology, as they exist in our universities. I was able to read an opinion of the working group within the Federal Council of Mental Health Care Professions, which was finalized and delivered to you, I am told, at the end of June. He sees sexology as a specialization and not as an autonomous profession. On the other hand, it is quite interesting to note that the opinion of the Higher Council of Health was not taken as a basis for drawing up this opinion. Why has this not been the case? Will you, for your part, base yourself on the opinion of the CSS? It is also my responsibility that the Société des Sexologists Universitaires de Belgique (SSUB) and the Vlaamse Vereniging voor Seksuologie (VVS) have not been associated with this working group. Why weren't they? Do you intend to consult them or ask them for advice? What is the continuation of the procedure? This is still an important issue, as sexual health is an integral part of health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u109	I have taken note of the preliminary vision text from the Federal Council for Mental Health Care Occupations on Sexuological Care. Many reactions to this vision text have been received from the field of work. They are now being collected and dealt with by the Federal Council, after which it will send me its final opinion. I would prefer to await the final opinion with the processing of these reactions and to analyse them carefully before I give my opinion on the substance and make a decision. I expect the final opinion over the next few weeks. Mrs Fonck, with regard to your question on the participation of the Société des sexlogues universitaires de Belgique and the Vlaamse Vereniging voor Seksuologie in the elaboration of the vision text, I can inform you that an invitation has been sent to professional associations, including the Société des sexlogues universitaires de Belgique and the Vlaamse Vereniging voor Seksuologie, as well as to representatives or training managers and certain field experts. The opinion of the Supreme Council of Health was taken into account, but the Federal Council wanted to explore a way of thinking that it found more relevant to clinical sexology. Finally, Mrs Depoorter, the recommendation of Kom op op tegen Kanker for aftercare consultations concerns the introduction of a generic aftercare consultation on which side effects and problems are questioned and discussed, including in the area of sexuality and intimacy, which can still affect an ex-cancer patient after treatment. So it's not about aftercare consultation with a sexologist, but it's about a doctor or another care provider who was responsible for the treatment. In the general aftercare consultation, according to the recommendation of Kom op tegen Kanker, it is also necessary to examine possible problems in terms of sexuality and intimacy. Such aftercare consultation can be regarded as an ordinary consultation and can therefore be reimbursed in this way. The question of whether it can be integrated into the recognition of clinical sexuologists is, in a sense, not applicable. There was an interesting question from Mrs Sneppe about the care pathway oncology, in which she also talked about the aftercare consultation. I explained that in oncology we would not only focus specifically on a follow-up consultation, but that aspects of this should come back to the oncology care path that we want to develop. Of course, that is not an answer to what is going on here about the clinical sexuologists, but I would like to point out that we absolutely do not want to lose sight of the aspect of intimacy, sexuality and psychological support, apart from the possible recognition of the clinical sexuologists. So I'm still a little waiting with reactions at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are certainly right in the latter regard, after-care is indeed an important component which should certainly not be underestimated. Of course, it's much more than that. It is aid, also within mental health care, which is not to be underestimated and which we must take seriously. That was also very clear from the recommendation of the Supreme Court. It is a very specific aid for very vulnerable patients who need to be able to express this in a quality way and be able to be helped. We've been talking about this for a long time. I understand that you would like to read all this carefully, so we will certainly come back to that. I really hope that we can take steps in the autumn, because the vulnerability of many patients is very large and deserves a strong and qualitative framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u111	Minister, this discussion has been going on since your first policy statement. Then you said you wanted to wait for the text of the vision. There is now a preliminary vision text and you are now going to think again about it. I think Mrs Muylle is right when she says time is running out. The point is that patients get the right person when they turn to a care provider. We hear too often that people are targeting a kind of therapist who has not received the training that is really necessary. Clinical sexuology isn't about experience experts, it's about science. Our patients need to be able to get the guarantee of science. I also had a question about the follow-up of cancer patients. You're right to say it's a different box. However, if problems are identified during the follow-up interview with the general practitioner or the oncologist, they must be referred to an expert on the subject, namely a recognised sexologist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u112	Minister, there is one point in your answer that I did not understand. An invitation was issued to the Société des Sexologists Universitaires de Belgique and Vlaamse Vereniging voor Seksuologie. Is this an invitation to participate in this opinion? I don't quite have the same information. I would like them to be at least associated with the work. This point seems a little nebulous to me. I'd like to make a suggestion for the next one. We have an opinion from the Higher Council of Health, which is clear-cut. It leaves no ambiguity at all as to the importance of recognizing sexology, obviously with criteria, as an autonomous profession and in relation to training. It seems to me that this does not prevent us from also being able to take into account the fact that a doctor or psychologist can also acquire additional specialization and then also practice as a sexologist. I don't have the impression that both are contradictory, contradictory. We could have a double approach. A doctor or psychologist who would do additional training cannot be excluded by telling him that they cannot exercise with an approach in terms of sexology, provided of course they have been trained. Not recognizing sexology and those who are trained to make it an autonomous profession is really problematic and it would be a loss for patients. Minister, I would therefore like to give you an appointment in September. I imagine that by then you will have had the opportunity to read the opinion and that we can – I dare hope – move forward for the benefit of the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u113	Since Ms. Nathalie Gilson was absent, her question no. 55029040C became moot. Debates of the European Parliament 55029080C by Mr Robby De Caluwe has been postponed. Attached questions No 55029120C by Mrs Sofie Merckx and No 55029276C by Mr Hervé Rigot are postponed. Question No 55029121C by Mrs Laurence Zanchetta is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u114	On 18 March 2022 Gilman et al's research was conducted in Jama Network Open. published. It investigated the effects of cannabis. According to the report, patients indicated that there was an improvement in insomnia, but there was no significant improvement in pain management, reduction of anxiety and response to symptoms of depression. However, combating pain is seen as one of the most important spearheads in the medical use of cannabis. However, researchers found that the use of this substance increased the frequency and intensity of cannabis use disorder (CUD), a form of addiction in which behavioural and personality disorders and increased anxiety are described as some of the most striking effects. What's the latest state of the Cannabis Bureau? What value do you attach to the results of this study? What decisions do you make? To what extent do the results of the study correspond to the findings of Belgian patients and the advice and studies carried out in our country? Is the increased risk of dependence currently being taken into account in medical cannabis treatment in our country? How is this monitored?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u115	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, the desirability, scope and possible staged start-up of the cannabis agency are still being discussed with the administration concerned. The article to which you refer is interesting, but must of course be placed in the whole of scientific publications on this subject. Some meta-analyses have been published in recent years. Although the results are not unambiguous, it is generally considered that cannabis derivatives have an effect in the treatment of spastic symptoms due to multiple sclerosis and in the treatment of chronic pain. Although the evidence is less strong, there would also be a positive effect in the treatment of nausea and vomiting in chemotherapy and sleep disorders. Literature warns, however, that the balance between the positive effects and the potential risks must always be considered. The meta-analyses generally do not see a place for cannabis derivatives in the treatment of anxiety or depression, as do the article to which you refer. Based on the literature and earlier advice, I can conclude that medicinal cannabis may have a place in the treatment of specific indications. If that is the case, it will be important to align the indications and specific patient populations for which the benefit-risk balance is positive very well. Recent publications are generally in line with the 2014 recommendations of a medical cannabis working group, which works on behalf of the FAGG Medicines Committee. That working group concluded that medicinal cannabis may have a place in the treatment of chronic and cancer pain, nausea and vomiting in chemotherapy and the treatment of certain symptoms of multiple sclerosis. The working group indicated that medicinal cannabis was not seen as a first choice medicine in those indications, but rather as a second or third line medication or adjuvant treatment used if an authorised medicinal product used in the first line is sufficiently effective. The delivery of magistral preparations based on products containing tetrahydrocannabinols is prohibited according to the Royal Decree of 11 July 2015. Medicinal products containing cannabis derivatives and authorised to be placed on the market may be supplied. Currently, there is one medicine on the Belgian market based on a cannabis derivative, Sativex, that is authorised to relieve symptoms in adult patients with spasticity due to multiple sclerosis. Based on clinical studies, dependence on Sativex is unlikely. This will be further monitored in the pharmacovigilance system. Another medicine based on cannabidiol called Epidiolex has a European marketing authorisation and has been authorised for the treatment of a particular type of epilepsy and a specific genetic condition. The medicine is not commercialised in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic858x.u116	Mr. Secretary, the creation of that cannabis agency was planned. I have already asked you several questions about this. I'm not a big fan of cannabis use. Such reports really need to show vigilance, and you are answering in that sense. When one really will shape that cannabis agency all studies must be considered, all the side effects that are formulated, but above all the lack of scientific evidence for the use of some product in the first line. You indicate that it could be used in second, third or fourth choices. There is a very interesting UN report on the use of cannabis. I suggest you take a look at that, too. It's kind of interesting about psychogenic effects.
