ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u1	Mr. Secretary of State, the Government of the Buildings is looking for new locations for detention homes. In the search for possible locations you have a writing addressed to some local authorities. Mr Secretary of State, have you signed up to all the local authorities of the entire country, or have you made a certain selection? In your letter to the local authorities you ask if they know potentially suitable locations, which they may give up to the Government of the Buildings. According to the same letter, there may also be a cost for any renovations. Mr Secretary of State, what budget do you have for the acquisition of the premises, any maintenance work and any necessary renovation work? The coincidence is that I myself am ships in the local government of Dendermonde, a medium-sized city. Your letter was received a bit strangely, since the Government of the Buildings owns a lot of properties in our city. Several of them are empty too, as our local government has pointed out a few times. That is why we were surprised when we read the question of whether we could happen to give up buildings that are vacant or have the control. So we have had the honor of reminding the Regie of her property on our territory. Mr. Secretary of State, has the Regie checked which of its own vacant buildings are still available? How do you explain, if necessary, the question the Regie raises to the local authorities? A very local dossier, on which I have submitted a separate question, is the possible prison of Dendermonde, a large building. What actions have been taken in recent years for their possible redevelopment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u2	One of the two questions is a written question which has not been answered and which I have passed on to our session oral questions today. Furthermore, I would like to get an update on the search for potential locations. Are there any specific locations yet? If so, where and for how many places? Was there any contact with the local government to determine whether the establishment of a detention centre is appropriate? How many locations for the opening of new detention homes will the Regie record in 2022? What will be the number of places so offered? How many on-site visits to potential locations have been carried out so far? Finally, how many feasibility and opportunity studies are currently under way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u3	Madame Jadin could not be present for the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u4	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u5	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, my question was initially addressed to the Minister of Justice. It was returned to your service and was also filed before your announcements last weekend in the verviet press. So I adapted it so that it would best match the reality of the moment. A month ago, I asked the Minister of Justice about the installation of a detention facility in the municipal territory of Verviers. It is good news in itself and a good project, but the announcement of the chosen site has aroused – rightly – a strong emotion in the popular neighborhood of Hodimont, since this detention house would be next to a school and a reception centre for victims of domestic violence. I deeply regret the lack – and even the absence – of consultation with the actors in the neighbourhood, and the lack of information for the actors who have so far accompanied this project. The press has recently mentioned an alternative, namely a student housing building, much of which is empty, from the street to the Laines. If I understood your ads correctly in the press, this option was also abandoned. With regard to the former welfare nursing home in the Hodimont district of Foxhalles Street, its non-acquisition may involve paying compensation in the event of cancellation of the purchase. A sum of just under 500,000 euros is sometimes mentioned. What are your concrete intentions in this matter now? Do you confirm that the street building in Les Laines is no longer relevant? In the event of an abandonment of the Foxhalles Street option for the detention home, what financial compensation is provided? Is there any other assignment of the building in case of continued purchase? For the detention facility, should we not move towards a project that would take place in the peri-urban area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u6	In order to meet the needs of shelters in detention homes of the FPS Justice, which are 720 places over a period of three years, the Buildings Regie has been commissioned to find locations. To this end, it has examined as many sites, complexes and buildings in its own portfolio as possible, but also on a wider scale on the private real estate market. For example, she analyses 264 sites of the federal portfolio, after which the FPS Justice also investigates them. In this case, the FPS Justice investigation is still ongoing for 36 locations. Furthermore, the Regie investigates 60 sites outside the federal real estate portfolio and 17 of them are under investigation by the FPS Justice Department. The different criteria in the FPS Justice Needs Programme are not considered binding directives, but rather flexiblely outline the broad lines of the housing proposals. The type of building must be suitable for a permanent stay of about 20 to 60 persons, or it must be easy to realise, with a limited number of adjustments. The Government of the Buildings has screened its real estate portfolio on the basis of the need programme prepared by the FPS Justice Department. It was considered that the buildings should be readily available even in the case of possible works and adaptations..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It was therefore better to focus on buildings that, given their typology, are already suitable for use as detention homes, such as former service homes, former hotels and residential care centres. The buildings are mainly to be searched outside the real estate portfolio of the Regie. On the budgetary front, the budget for the Buildings Regié was set at 73.5 million over three years during the development of the 2022 budget. With regard to the proposal to create a detention home in place of the rest home located on Foxhalles Street in Verviers and in view of the various points of the problem – including the presence of a nearby school – I have frozen the project for a month in order to study all the elements of this file. After an analysis, taking all the considerations and arguments of each other, I decided – in consultation with my colleague from Justice – that we should not continue in this direction. Another place has to be found. Nevertheless, we do not abandon Verviers and we continue to search in the surroundings. You're asking a number of other questions, Mr. Ben Achour. I did not receive the question yesterday and the information was actually distilled in the press this weekend. We're still looking. All the opportunities, including the one you cited, have not been abandoned at this stage. We are still analysing this reflection. As far as Meise is concerned, the former Hotel Falko is currently being studied as a possible detention house. In other words, the Government of the Buildings, together with the FPS Justice, is investigating the feasibility of the project. This includes, inter alia, an evaluation of the financial and operational aspects with the local authorities, which are still under discussion. Only if the analysis is positive will a consultation with the residents be organised. As far as the prison in Dendermonde is concerned, I will reply to the specific question on this subject later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, I look forward to that answer. It remains a bit strange that the Buildings Direction itself owns about 66 vacant buildings, but apparently has difficulty finding a new destination for them, all the more so because the criteria for the FPS Justice are not binding. It is what it is. I hope that the Government of the Buildings succeeds in its design and finds the desired locations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I have the same feeling that there is apparently no suitable building in the extensive portfolio of the Government of the Buildings. I have also received no answers to certain questions, such as the number of sites for 2022 and the feasibility and opportunity studies at different locations, but I will continue to follow up on the case and possibly submit a written question on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u9	Secretary of State, you confirm the abandonment of the Foxhalles Street Detention House project, but that had already been done this weekend. It's done. You confirm that the street track at Les Laines, the "Kots building" – call it that – is not abandoned and that all tracks remain open, including action. On the basis of this, I would like to share three thoughts with you. The first is to encourage your services to think carefully about the establishment on the territory, in Verviers or elsewhere, of a project such as that of a house of detention, which is a new concept in our country. Urban or peri-urban? I hear well, and I think it's smart to put the accessibility criterion for detainees at the centre of the thinking. But there is still the question of the place of life of hundreds, if not thousands, of other people, and complementarity. The articulation between a project and a neighbourhood is important. Second thought, with regard to the Hodimont project, since the federal government will remain the owner of the building next to the school of Providence, the neighbourhood needs a positive project that will help improve its image. It is a popular neighborhood that sometimes suffers from a negative image. I hear about an alternative Fedasil. It's the rumor that's circulating. I wish I could have asked you the question so that you could confirm this rumor, but I only had the information recently, after the question had been tabled. I don't know if you'll have the opportunity to do it here, but anyway, look at the image of the neighborhood. Thirdly, we must not make the same mistake twice. It is essential to involve the citizens, and the fabric of formed associations that is important in the neighbourhood. The latter must be associated with reflection now. I believe that working meetings with residents and associations are essential. Again, we talk about the place of life of thousands of people. I believe that they should be integrated early in thinking about the future of the Foxhalles Street site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, as part of the Left Side Business Park project in Charleroi, it is planned to destroy the current Finance Building in order to replace it with a marina and housing towers. It is therefore necessary to find a new building for the officials concerned, and that is where it is. Indeed, only the Moury group is still running to build the future seat, but the problem is that he is not the owner of the land on which he wanted to build the new building and for which he had introduced his offer. Today, it is the IRET company that owns this land, which had, moreover, received a permit to develop another project. It is therefore not known when the destruction of the current Tour des Finances will begin, except that it will not begin until 2023. Mr. Secretary of State, where are you considering relocating FPS Finance officers? When do you plan to destroy the current building? Will the Régie des Bâtiments re-launch a call, given the imbroglio that the Régie is facing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u11	Mr President, with regard to the public procurement aimed at relocating FPS finance officers who have not yet received their award, the Régie des Bâtiments cannot yet decide on their relocation. The bids were received in November 2020. Since then, the Régie has been waiting to be able to lift two conditions for the bidder, concerning the land and the licence, before awarding the contract. The Régie des Bâtiments informs me that it hopes to be able to award this new public contract very quickly for a new lease starting this first semester. After the award of the contract, a minimum of two full years will be required before the contract is made available. In addition, the Régie des Bâtiments does not plan, at this stage, to destroy the building located on Rue Jean Monnet. Negotiations are under way with IGRETEC for the development of a future urban development, which you have quoted, in the form of a marina which will be set up near this place. For your information, the bidder extends its offer by several months, pending the fulfilment of the conditions set out above. Finally, 430 civil servants work in the current building. The new FPS Finance Requirements Program provides a primary surface area of 7,731 square metres and 80 parking spaces. The last needs programme includes 441 natural persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I'm sorry, but I don't understand: this is the first quarter or the first half of this year you were talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u13	It's the first semester.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u14	All right. I will forward your response to the officials concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u15	I would remind you that we are waiting for the conditions to be lifted and the bidder to extend its offer systematically. Thus, the outcome will also depend on these factors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the new prison in Dendermonde is currently under construction. It will be put into service at the end of this year. The question that lives is what will happen to the old complex. It is one of the first prisons in this country, built in the 1860s. It was also one of the first panopticums and is a protected monument, both inside and outside. It is therefore not obvious to find a new destination for this. On the other hand, there has been a lot of opportunity for reflection on this. The construction of the new prison has been planned since 2003, 19 years ago. Since my election, I have asked questions about this, including Mr Geens, who was in charge of the Directorate of Buildings before you. He knew how to tell me a year and a half ago that there was no sight on potential buyers and that they didn't know if they wanted to sell it at all. They also did not know what was possible and were allowed in the field of restoration. New destinations also had to be investigated. The Regie had to start all the preparations. We've been a year and a half. The move from the old complex is approaching, which is planned for this year. What is the view of the Government of the Buildings on the complex? What new redevelopments do they see as the real estate expert of the federal government? Has there been any contact with the FPS Justice Department about a possible continuation of the use as a penitentiary facility, possibly after renovation works? Contact would be made with the real estate services. What were the results of these talks? What limitations or possibilities were outlined by them? Maybe the Buildings Regie chooses to reject the building? Have they taken any steps before that? Has there been an estimate of the sales value? Were there any buyers wanted? How do you explain that it takes many years for such a re-destination project to be initiated? We've known this for a long time. Why wasn't preparations for re-destination or rejection started sooner?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u17	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, as regards the future of Dendermonde's prison, various possibilities within the Regie are being investigated and internal research is being carried out into the various elements that determine the value of this heritage. The potential re-use of this building is currently being studied, but no choice has yet been made. Different parameters should be taken into account, including the vision of the city of Dendermonde. It develops its own vision of spatial planning and urban development. Both views will have to be examined. The prison itself is a protected monument, but the workhouses are not. The site is located in a blue zone, which can also make a re-destination difficult. In any case, it is necessary to first examine whether these buildings can still be used for federal services. As long as this is not conclusive, no decision can be taken on whether or not to sell the property. The future of this prison is under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much. I had asked a lot of specific questions and expected a slightly more comprehensive answer. That doesn't make me so hopeful for the future. You say that the first step is to investigate what needs the federal state still has in the region. I agree. I even put a specific written question on this last year. The answer was: "We do not know the needs of the federal state in the region that would justify such use." So that first step is already over. The fact that you say today that you do not yet have an answer to that is remarkable, as it should have been examined for a long time. How else could you have answered my question, Mr Secretary of State? This is a strange way of doing things. Also the fact that 19 years after the start of the file on the construction of a new prison is still researching the possibilities for that site is hard to reconcile with good governance. How many decades is it going to take to determine the value of a complex and to assess the potential for development? Indeed, it is in a blue zone, but I think there are perfect possibilities with the city administration to look at the redevelopment of these functions, for example through the creation of a spatial implementation plan. I am pessimistic that after all these years no action has been taken. At least I can't call this good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u19	Although the estimates of potential savings are based on assumptions, they should be considered indicative. The Working Group on Spending Reviews for Teleworking came to the following conclusions and recommendations. First, teleworking is not an end in itself but must be embedded in the vision and culture of each service, building on autonomy, trust and result orientation. Secondly, teleworking remains voluntary at the level of individual staff, but a post pandemic scenario of on average two days of teleworking per week and per staff member for all services seems realistic. The Buildings Management has calculated the potential savings that would result from a structural increase in teleworking, taking into account a switch to new working methods for the services that would have the possibility to do so. In this context, the Buildings Management has made an estimate of the long-term savings that can be made for administrative buildings in the Brussels-Capital Region from seven to twenty years of age by applying the 2020 telework standard. The impact of two days of teleworking on 80% of the total number of full-time equivalent employees on the real estate portfolio in the Brussels Capital Region is estimated at a potential saving of 351.000 m2 for a total area of 1.100.000 m2. That's about 32 percent of the surface. Of this total, a saving of 204.000 m2 is already planned in the elaboration of existing and still to be approved master plans. As far as rent savings are concerned, this would mean a potential recurrent saving of 37 million from 2028 onwards. With regard to rental costs, the estimated potential savings would be 6.4 million euros per year. The one-off expenditure for the first installation works during the transition to the new working methods and the incentive measures for furniture is estimated at EUR 115 million. The increased correction for teleworking in the occupation standard takes into account two days of teleworking for 80% of the relevant full-time equivalents. This estimate of the post-covid situation therefore seems realistic, since it was already possible to telework three days a week under the Royal Decree of 22 November 2006 on tele and satellite work in federal and administrative public office. The Buildings Management took part in several working groups within Pure-net, i.e. Public Real Estate Network, in May 2020, in June 2020 and in January 2021, on how public real estate organisations are strategically adapting to future trends and the expected impact of the health crisis. Moreover, the Government of the Buildings is in contact with the National Real Estate Company in the Netherlands, as it is in a similar situation. An initial design of the customer relations manual was prepared. The next step will be to submit the underlying principles to the Council of Ministers for approval. In reply to your question about the possibility of making integrated space available to the various administrations, we aim here to manage the entire technical maintenance of the building and its installations. Aspects outside the scope of this integrated approach are all aspects that are not directly linked to the housing of the departments but rather support the functioning and essential tasks of the public service, such as cleaning, economist, catering, fleet management, active ICT equipment, such as laptop, printer, mobile phone, etc., as well as the specific work equipment in the main tasks. The Government of the Buildings wants to offer good management and optimise its real estate portfolio. The reduction of vacant position by terminating unnecessary leases and increasing the value of assets in ownership is therefore a priority. Several projects have therefore been carried out, including the extension of the satellite office project, the communitarisation of certain buildings and the exploration of development opportunities, including the private sector. With regard to current leases, the following should be noted. In the case of rented buildings, an early partial termination of the lease shall be considered a breach of contract. The Government of the Buildings may only try to negotiate with the landlord on a case-by-case basis an early termination or, if the landlord agrees, sublet a utility building. It is clear that, whenever possible, the Buildings Control is seeking to renegotiate the contracts for which it is responsible in order to reduce costs, either by reducing the area concerned or by reducing rental prices per square metre or by cancelling the contracts as a whole. Finally, it is not for me to say whether or not telework should be strengthened. My role is to provide solutions to the various federal services and to offer them workshops that are best suited to their needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u21	Thank you for your questions. Mr Freilich, as a reminder, leasing and purchasing are not covered by the Public Procurement Act. The Government of the Buildings shall conclude contracts for the rental or purchase of a building when concluding a promotional contract, i.e. a public contract for both the financing and execution of works and, where appropriate, the provision of services in that regard. In 2021, the Government of the Buildings in the three regions of the country has not yet concluded such contracts. As regards the prospection in 2021, the Buildings Regie has a total of 36 buildings for a total surface area of 254 m2 and 13 plots for a total surface area of 88 hectares. Through its prospecting, the Regie looks for the best opportunities to meet the various federal services and meet their needs as best as possible. The Regie has therefore purchased two sustainable buildings in Brussels-North: Möbius and Networks NØR, using the market in their raw state. The sale agreement for Möbius II was signed on 20 December 2021 and for Networks NØR on 22 December 2021. The purchase of these two premises on the Brussels market was motivated by the needs formulated by the FPS Justice and the FPS Home Affairs. As far as Möbius is concerned, the total purchase cost for the real estate agency was EUR 216 598,000. That is, 179 million euros plus 37,590,000 euros in VAT. The 21 % VAT applies because it is a new building. This amount was financed entirely from the budget of the Directorate-General for Buildings. This gives a price of 4,172 euros per m2 excluding VAT and 5,049 euros including VAT. The exact cost of the works is not yet known, but the initial estimates are EUR 58 million, of which two thirds are charged to the budget of the Buildings Regie. A separate public contract will be awarded for the work. As regards Networks NØR, the total cost of this purchase was therefore EUR 93.069.600 for the Buildings Management, including costs. This amount shall be the sum of the following expenditure. The building was purchased from Banimmo SA for an amount of 71,760,000 euros, 92 percent of the selling price. This price is subject to 21% as it is a new building. The basement was purchased from Comulex SA, owned by Banimmo SA, for an amount of 6,240,000 euros, 8% of the selling price. This price should have been subject to the traditional registration fees in the Brussels-Capital Region, 12,5 %, but the Buildings Regie is exempt, which represents a tax advantage of 780,000 euros. This gives a price of 3,576 euros per m2 excluding VAT and 4,639 euros per m2 including VAT. As regards the cost of the first installation works in the building to adapt it to the customer's technical and safety requirements, the exact amount is not yet known, but according to initial estimates, the cost will be EUR 18 million. These costs will be borne entirely by the budget of the Directorate-General for Buildings. A report by Jones Lang LaSalle on real estate transactions in 2020 and 2021 in the Brussels Capital Region gives an average price of 6.620 euros per square meter. So we paid a fair price for the quality of the buildings involved. The only external payment advice requested by the Government of the Buildings in the context of these two sales is the advice of the law firm Tiberghien on the applicability of the property tax, municipal taxes and regional taxes in the event that the Government of the Buildings would take on a long-term lease of a building for an amount of EUR 11,251. No other payment advice was requested. The brokers are paid by the seller and not by the Government of the Buildings. For information, the opinions of the Treasury Inspectorate, the Regie and the FPS Interior and Justice Department were requested. For Networks NØR, the joint advice of the Treasury Inspectorate, the Buildings and the Home Office was negative, on the one hand because of the lack of a budget and on the other because the building would be understaffed. Those two comments were replied to. The budget was released by the Council of Ministers. A third resident was found to occupy the unoccupied spaces. For Möbius II, the advice of the Finance Inspection Services accredited to the Office of the Buildings was negative, because the advice of the Finance Inspectorate of the Ministry of Justice was lacking. The opinion of the Ministry of Justice's financial inspection was favourable. It draws attention to the space available. On 29 October 2021, the Secretary of State for the Budget also issued a rejection of the budget due to a lack of budget. In view of the special and exceptional nature of these acquisitions, I have asked the Regie to forward the file to the Court of Auditors for information. As far as confidentiality is concerned, future residents have asked for some discretion, both for security reasons and for proper follow-up to the negotiations. Both in the nuclear cabinet and in the Council of Ministers, I was present to present and defend those two purchases, for which I had the support of the entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I do not really want to go into further discussion today, but there is still one element that remains unanswered, in particular the question of the date on which this was discussed in the Council of Ministers and how there is no trace of it in the Minutes. As you know, as Members of Parliament, we can look at the minutes of the Council of Ministers. I have already read the minutes of the month in question. At the meeting of the Finance Committee on 12 December, you said that the decision was taken at the nuclear cabinet on 26 November, but I do not find any notes on that date. Did I miss anything? Can you still answer that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u23	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u24	Mr Freilich, is that enough for you? [[Applause from the left]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u26	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u27	The Regie has launched a market survey to gather and analyse proposals, ideas and suggestions on the private market. The deadline for submission shall be 31 January 2022. Therefore, at the moment nothing can be said about possible locations or alternatives. Currently, the Executive Board of the Buildings rents 27,900 m2 office space at the Rijksadministratief Centrum in Hasselt. Due to the trend towards teleworking, the occupation standards applied by the Regie and the increasing introduction of new ways of working, square meters of office space will decrease in the future. According to a first estimate, in Hasselt only 18,000 m2 of gross floor area will be required for the federal services. The final surface area will depend on what is offered on the real estate market, the configuration of buildings and the synergies of certain spaces by the different administrations. In addition, there is the possibility to extend the rent of the current location of the National Administrative Centre. The terms of any extension are still to be negotiated. At present, it is a market survey and no demands have been made. Since the Belgian Interfederal Energy Pact and the National Energy and Climate Plan require public buildings to be energy neutral by 2040, the market study contains a directive on energy performance and sustainability requirements. The final requirements will depend on the chosen route, the technical possibilities and the rental agreements proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u28	Some colleagues are on other committees and will join us later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u29	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u30	Mr Troasts, I am told by the Directorate of Buildings that she is well aware of the slight imbalance to which you refer. She's doing her best to fix this. This imbalance is mainly due to the large number of vacant posts and the difficulties in filling in Dutch-speaking posts. The Regie does have the language framework required by law. The Standing Committee on Language Monitoring shall monitor and monitor it. The Buildings Management shall respect the language framework and take concrete measures to compensate for any imbalance. Of course, I will make available to you the tables mentioned in my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, the Regie indeed has a language framework. But that has been drafted in a way that is not really beneficial to the Dutch speakers, which I deeply regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's 55024190C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u33	Mr. Secretary of State, on 25 May 2021, you visited Ghent to visit a number of buildings belonging to the heritage of the Buildings Regie. Following that, I would like to ask you a number of questions. Can you give me an overview of the buildings you visited back then? With what objectives? What are the results and at what time? Apart from the buildings you visited then, are there any other properties in Ghent eligible for renovation, redevelopment or sale? I am particularly pleased to hear that the talks between the Government of the Buildings and the University of Ghent regarding the site Het Pand have reached an advanced stage, for which I express my thanks. I know that you are making efforts to do this. It is therefore very likely that Ghent University will be able to use the building for a while, but is there also a new future for this unique and historic building once the collaboration with Ghent University ends? Can you tell me when the transfer to the Ghent Opera is scheduled for the part of the justice palace? The Federal House of the Governor, which I know very well, located on the Kalandeberg, is a beautiful and unique property. What future do you see for this building that's slightly weakened on the inside? In May you also visited the Groendreef and in December 2021 it became known that you wanted to pay 120 million for the construction of a new police station in Ghent, better known as the project Groendreef. The government already agreed to the proposed investment plan. In the meantime, may I assume that this file has accelerated? Do you have any idea when the transfer from the Ghent police to the site is foreseen? This is a theme that is regularly addressed by the Home Office. Is an investment in the housing of the 112 plant also taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u34	There was a visit on 25 May 2021 and you were welcome there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u35	I was there, but you were so interested in the various projects that you were late everywhere. That's why I didn't get to meet you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u36	The visit of 25 May 2021 was part of my visit to several operational services of the Directorate of Buildings in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. In Ghent I visited the seat of the Government of the Buildings at Ketelvest nr. 26. There I was present at a Team meeting with all employees of the operational services. Then I visited the Old Courthouse at the Commerce Square nr. 23, The Pand and the Federal Police site. About Het Pand, the Government of the Buildings made a proposal to the rector of Ghent University. During my visit the rector asked me to find a solution because the initial proposal for the rental price of the property was still high. In the meantime, I have informed you that I have asked the Government of the Buildings to draw up an alternative proposal, in particular to reduce the rent to the proportional value of the buildings. However, it was assumed that the full tenant and owner obligations and maintenance remain with the Ghent University. This proposal reduces the rent for Ghent University by almost half. However, account should be taken of the fact that this alternative proposal still needs a favourable opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate. The transfer of the Justice Palace section to the Ghent Opera depends on whether the cell complex can be housed in the Old Court Building at the Commercial Square No. 23. The standards of the cells for the accused are not the same as those for the prisoners. A study should therefore be carried out to determine whether the cellars are sufficiently high to accommodate the cell complex. If this proves possible, the justice palace section can be transferred to the Ghent Opera. In the building on the Kalandeberg are still the federal services of the governor. For the near future works are planned for the renovation of the rear façade. The building will also pay due attention to its conservation. No decision has yet been taken on the future of the building. There's a meeting scheduled with the governor in February to see what's possible. In the area of major renovations or restorations, the buildings you already mentioned, the Justice Palace and the Kalandeberg, will be covered. It also examines whether the cohabitation project of the federal police with the local police at the Groendreef in Ghent can be carried out by means of a DBFM agreement, at least as regards the buildings of the federal police and possibly the common buildings. This was also included in the multiannual plan 2021-2026 for the real estate needs of the Buildings Regie. Then I come to your second question, about the Groendreef and the implementation of the master plan for the federal police and local police project. A procedure will be initiated to designate an external consultant to assist the Buildings Management in drawing up the contractual documents for the DBFMO agreement. This includes setting the timetable for the project. It should be noted that once the Council of Ministers has given its approval, a period of five to six months will be required to appoint the consultant. Although the timing of the removal of the Ghent police is partly related to the implementation of the DBFMO contract for the part federal police, it seems appropriate to ask the Ghent police services to do so. The housing of the 112 Central Unit is part of the social project and will therefore be ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u37	Thank you for your clear response, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last September, the Minister of Justice confirmed that the Verviers Palace of Justice would be renovated in its entirety and that all services at Verviers would be maintained in their current configuration. This is obviously excellent news. Minister Van Quickenborne planned to start the study in 2022. Currently work is underway on the Janson wing, which you know since you came to Verviers a few months ago. If the announced timing is respected, the second and third phases should soon be completed. For the fourth, dismantling of the floor on the first floor, permission from the Walloon government was required. In addition, the Government has allocated EUR 150 million for energy renewal under the multi-annual investment plan agreed in October. I would like, Mr Secretary of State, to take stock with you of this matter and therefore have a number of questions for you. What is the status of work on the Janson Wing? Are the deadlines so far met? [[...]] [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u39	You're allowed to ask your questions, Mr. Ben Achour. That's really the purpose of the exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u40	I understand that, Mr. President! I'm trying to be as cordial as I can be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u41	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, have you obtained the consent expected from the Walloon Region? Could you clarify the retroplanning of the renovation? Will services need to be relocated during this time? If so, is the street de Dison track still the preferred option? Finally, will the Palais de Justice be one of the buildings that will benefit from the sums released in order to carry out the energy renovation of the property of the Régie des Bâtiments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u43	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Ben Achour, the situation has not changed significantly since your last question in September 2021. However, the work in phase 3 is being provisionally received. The work was to be completed by the end of October 2021, but the exceptional weather of July 2021 largely affected this schedule. The Régie des Bâtiments has received a decision from the Walloon government authorizing phases 1, 2 and 3 and confirming the refusal of phase 4. The Régie des Bâtiments has therefore filed an appeal with the Conseil d'État concerning the conditions of the licence issued which are not acceptable to some of them. At the planning level, the Régie des Bâtiments informs me that it cannot currently provide me with a more precise schedule than a completed study and work schedule for 2030. Studies will determine which services will have to be relocated according to a phase of work still to be established, in consultation with the services of the Justice FPS. The reflection in relation to the rue de Dison is part of this pattern. The renovation of this building will also aim to significantly improve its energy performance. The budget for renovation also includes this aspect. In terms of the budget, as I was able to announce recently, EUR 35 million is provided for in the multi-annual investment plan for the renovation of the Palais de Justice in Verviers. This plan will be presented to you in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u44	Thank you, Secretary of State, for these answers that confirm a series of things we already knew. It can be understood that the post-flooding environment has not been able to move forward as quickly as it would have been. Above all, it is important that resources be set aside in the multi-year plan. Again, we should move forward as quickly as possible. You have seen it yourself, the situation is, to say the least, dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u45	Secretary of State, Verviers Prison is an important issue, you will agree. Verviers has been waiting for a new prison for more than ten years! Indeed, it was in 2011 that the decision was made to proceed with its closure because of the dangerousness of the premises. The project on the table consists of the construction of a medium security facility, which can accommodate up to 240 inmates, at the very site of the former prison. As you know, it must take the form of a DBFM-type public-private partnership. I don't have to tell you. For more than a decade, families have therefore had to go to Marche-en-Famenne or Andenne to visit their loved ones. Similarly, staff members – 180 of them – also had to adapt to another work environment, much farther away, most often, from their home. In February 2021, the last time I asked the government about this, I was told that the DBFM market was still on hold. In particular, the update of Masterplan III was a condition of this point. I come without transitioning to my questions, Secretary of State. Has Masterplan III been updated? What does he plan for Verviers prison? Has the DBFM market, several times delayed, finally been launched? What's the timing? When will the prison be completed? Initially, the year 2024 was mentioned. Could you specify the updated backplanning of the construction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u46	Mr President, I shall try to reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u47	We are all very anxious to please Sophie Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u48	I still have 20 minutes to answer. I'm so sorry. I'm kidding. In response to your first question, MP, Masterplan III provides, among other things, for the construction of a prison of 240 prisoners in Verviers, under DBFM contract. It also provides for the construction of several DBFM-contracted prisons, including those in Vresse-sur-Semois and Leopoldsburg. It is also planned to build legal psychiatric centres, CPLs, under contract DBFMO in Wavre, Paifve and Alost. The government agreement of 30 October 2020 gave priority to CPL projects over those of prisons. This priority was subsequently confirmed on several occasions in the Council of Ministers. However, it has been possible to launch the projects of the prisons in Leopoldsburg and Vresse-sur-Semois, whose first offers are being analysed. The project in Verviers has therefore been shifted from the other projects mentioned. However, for Verviers, the expropriated houses were demolished and the land prepared for the next launch of the project. As soon as possible, the Régie teams will resume the Verviers project. Secondly, the DBFM market for Verviers prison has not yet been launched because of the reasons I have just set out. The market will not be launched until 2023 according to the latest discussions. Finally, the Régie informs me that the prison of Verviers could open from 2028. This planning will be re-evaluated later this year once the other projects mentioned have been able to evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your sometimes precise and sometimes less precise answers given certain circumstances, in particular the connection with other projects which also have to progress according to a timing which is obviously not always known. There's an emergency. Of course, we've been waiting a long time. We are all, as Vervietois, attached to strengthening the justice pole in our city.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u50	I would like to add two small sub-questions following our visit, together with several colleagues from the Committee on Justice, to the site under construction at Haren prison. In February 2021, the Régie des Bâtiments had objected to the requests for the classification of the prisons of Saint-Gilles and Forest, finding it incompatible with the current use and means of the site. From the moment these buildings lose their prison function, it is hoped that this objection will be lifted and, consequently, their classification. If so, what would be the impact on their reassignment? Then, do you confirm the June 2023 date that was communicated to us by the management of the future Haren prison as the date on which the evacuation of the prisons of Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael and the transfer of all their detainees to Haren would end? Instead of that deadline, we were initially announced 2024. Can this proximity to the deadline give us hope that we will be ready, so that the site does not become an urban wasteland? I therefore expect more explanation, but if you are unable to answer me today, I will send you a written question or ask you again at a future meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u51	Thank you, Congresswoman. With regard to the prisons of Saint-Gilles and Forest, although discussions have been initiated with the Brussels-Capital Region and with the commune of Saint-Gilles and they should soon begin with the commune of Forest, the Region has not yet formulated a concrete project for us. She mentioned the possibility of creating housing, a park and shops there. For Berkendael's women's prison, I can confirm that a study is under way on the change of assignment. If this study is positive, the objective would be to have it operational in the second half of 2023. For the evaluation of this site, as you know, the Régie des Bâtiments uses the federal procurement committee for evaluations. It also requested a second analysis. Lastly, with regard to the timetable, the relocation of detainees was dependent on the final reception of the new Haren prison. It is hoped that the first detainees will be transferred for the month of September 2022. Today, it is difficult for me to give you an end date since it is not the Régie's responsibility to arrange the transfer of inmates. But if I get the information, I'll be able to send it to you. The same applies to rankings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State for your answers. With regard to the ranking, I take note of this and will ask you a new question. That goes without saying. I do hope that consultations are under way with the municipalities concerned. I hear a consultation is under way with Saint-Gilles, but not yet with Forest. I am surprised because Forest is just as concerned. We are still faced here with prisons which are certainly old-fashioned, but which nevertheless remain architectural jewels that must be able to be exploited as soon as we have the opportunity. For this reason, these sites had been identified as priority development areas in the regional sustainable development plan. I hear that as far as the Brussels Region is concerned, you did not receive a concrete project. Some avenues had been launched, notably on the basis of a feasibility study already carried out in 2014, to develop housing or schools. Then, in 2000, there was also a classification procedure for which I will ask you again with a question. I understand that you are not responsible for the transfer of the detainees to Haren prison, but I regret that, both with regard to you and with regard to the Minister of Justice – I have obviously asked him about this – the government is unable to have a transfer schedule to Haren. This is particularly problematic since it is almost exclusively dependent on it for an idea of when the sites of Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael can be properly reassigned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u53	Madam Member, as far as your first question is concerned, I will not be able to elaborate on the figures you are asking for. Indeed, the annual investment plan 2022 will soon be validated; and the multi-year investment plan for the coming years will be presented to you in committee on 15 February. So I'll ask you a little more patience. In addition, you filed your question very late for these elements. As far as the prisons of Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael are concerned, I am well aware of their condition. My intention is not to leave prisoners in obsolete buildings more than necessary, and beyond human dignity, of course. Indeed, detainees in these various prisons are expected to be moved to Haren's new prison in the near future. As we've heard, travel should start in September. In the meantime, the Régie des Bâtiments does not intend to make any unnecessary additional expenditures for these buildings that, depending on future federal requirements, could be reconverted or otherwise disposed of. Nevertheless, in order to ensure the best possible conditions of detention for detainees prior to their transfer to Haren, in collaboration with the Justice and the Central Prison Supervision Board, the Régie des Bâtiments is studying all options for the occupation and organization of spaces. The situation of the psychiatric annex is known. The Régie is working on the best and fastest possible solutions for inmates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. As far as the budgetary side is concerned, I intend that we will discuss this on 15 February next. The appointment is made! As far as the maintenance and renovation work is concerned, I must say that I am still hungry. I find that your answer, in the end, is rather vague. I hear you're aware of the long-standing problem of these prisons. It is not for nothing that the European Court of Human Rights, but also the United Nations, is constantly calling on our Government because of the overcrowding in prisons, but also because of the old buildings, precisely. I hear the Régie des Bâtiments is working on solutions. However, in the meantime, we cannot say to both prisoners and prison officers: "Wait for another six months, a year, a year and a half, to enjoy dignified conditions." Especially since the transfer to the future Haren prison will take time, perhaps more time than the future leadership hopes. I therefore really hope that we will finally be able to benefit from a timetable for all of these renovations, for all of this work. Two or three weeks ago, Minister Van Quickenborne told me that work was planned, that it would be carried out in the course of the year, taking into account emergencies. The problem, Mr Secretary of State, is that all this renovation work has, by definition, become urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, the Itinera Institute published last December a report analysing the real impact of the renovation policy in Belgium. The results are clear: today, only 4% of Belgian housing units have the energy label A. So far, you will say, this concerns you only very partially. However, the buildings owned by the Régie are also affected by this study. Our global, European and national climate targets impose a net reduction in emissions in all sectors, including housing stock. Effective housing renovation is therefore essential in order to improve the energy performance of buildings. In addition, in the long term, better energy performance also reduces the costs associated with their consumption. This surprisingly low rate of 4% for Belgian housing raises questions about the national housing stock in a wider way. Mr. Secretary of State, is there to date a mechanism for monitoring the energy performance of buildings managed by the Régie? If so, what part of this real estate would have the energy label A, B or C? What measures will you take to improve the energy efficiency of public buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u56	Mr President, thank you very much for your question. For the Régie des Bâtiments, it is essential to have accurate consumption data on its housing stock. With regard to gas and electricity, a mechanism for monitoring energy performance already exists for the majority of public buildings, via the global contract for the supply of gas and green electricity. It provides for the transmission of consumption data from supply points in a format that can be used directly by the Régie. The latter has yet to work on the collection of fuel oil consumption data. A pilot project for the installation of fuel meters at about 20 sites, with remote automated surveying, is under way. In the long term, the aim is to equip all public buildings still heated with oil. In addition, the implementation of innovative solutions requires a sophisticated knowledge of building consumption – technical by technique, block by block, unit by unit. This is why the Régie has planned to equip any new building with detailed energy sub-accounting. In existing buildings, implementation is more complicated and will need to be analysed as needed. In addition, the Régie des Bâtiments continues its work of establishing PEB certificates for public buildings in the three regions. However, it does not yet have all the PEB certification data for buildings for which this is an obligation. In fact, the PEB certification – a legal obligation for the occupant of the building – is not yet carried out on all the complexes, but is expected to be carried out in the year 2022. The Régie des Bâtiments has launched two framework contracts for the designation of PEB certificaters in the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region. The PEB certification in the Flemish Region is carried out by means of VEB – Vlaams Energiebedrijf, from which the clients of the Régie can benefit. The two framework contracts for the designation of certificaters for public buildings were notified at the end of 2021 for Brussels – apart from a lot that has just been republished, the first offers are not acceptable. They were notified early 2022 for Wallonia. They can therefore now be used by public services hosted by the Régie des Bâtiments. It should also be noted that any new building must comply with an internal directive of the Régie des Bâtiments. It, established in early 2021, sets out the requirements and recommendations for the energy and environmental performance of our buildings, and is applicable to any new project, regardless of its financing and market mode. As part of its contribution to the national energy-climate plan (PNEC), the Régie des Bâtiments has, among other actions, set the objective of optimising the energy performance of its buildings. Because of their wide diversity, different objectives have been defined by type of building. The objective for office buildings is to achieve the almost energy-neutral energy level and to reduce the energy consumption of HVAC instruments by half by 2040. For classified buildings, the objective is to reduce the energy consumption of HVAC installations by one eighth by 2040. For so-called special purpose buildings, either with a specific function, such as barracks, prisons, etc., the aim is to reduce the energy consumption of HVAC installations by a quarter by 2040. The objectives thus set have been considered with a view to improving the energy supply of our existing buildings. In order to achieve this, we aim to reduce the area occupied to 1 million square metres, improve the energy performance of buildings, replace some prisons with new buildings that meet the need for human detention and high BEP criteria – notably through DBFM contracts –, produce renewable energy by means of photovoltaic panels and use of the modernization of lighting equipment by relighting projects. In addition to the budgets linked to the Multiannual Investment Plan (MIP), resources released under the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the Budget Conclave enable the Régie des Bâtiments to make progress in this area. An annual budget of €3.5 million in 2022, €3.7 million in 2023 and €3.7 million in 2024, for a total additional €10 million, was released for the next three years. This budget will be allocated for just over half of the energy audits.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your relatively technical answer, which contained many elements. You spoke very quickly. I will therefore take the time to analyse all these elements before reacting in a more detailed manner. But I am already glad that the problem seems to be taken into account, that you already have some tools, certainly insufficient – I have chosen the examples for gas and electricity, okay, for fuel oil, nothing – but we still need to be able to analyse the figures we can collect. If I have understood correctly, I regret that there are delays in the certification of the existing heritage by the EIB, but that, on the other hand, objectives are set for all new heritage and for the alignment of the older heritage. I wonder about the budget of about 3.5 million a year, which I think is relatively low, especially in view of the fact that if the energy performance of buildings is improved, we will be able to make serious savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u58	Mr. President, thank you for waiting for me. Mr. Secretary of State, good morning. We have recently been able to discover on social networks the wishes of a political party, namely yours, the Reforming Movement. I was particularly surprised at the location from which these wishes, including Sophie Wilmès, Georges-Louis Boucher and Louis Michel, were expressed. Indeed, this video is shot from various places inside the Palais de Justice in Brussels. The impartiality of justice is one of the cornerstones of our democracy. The institution of justice must not only be neutral, but must also appear as such to guarantee its credibility, but also its legitimacy to our people. It is therefore particularly questionable that a political party organises a political event in the most representative building of justice in Belgium. This unfortunate mix of genders may suggest that justice is infused with a political party. Of course, I asked your colleague from the Justice Department about this last week. Here are some questions: Do you consider this use of a public building to be ethical and legal? Do you not think it weakens the image of the judiciary, so important in our democracy? Was authorization requested by the political party in question and, if so, to which body? Your colleague, the Minister of Justice, replied last week that the President of the Court of Cassation had, among other things, given her agreement. I asked him about the expression 'among other things', asking if the Régie des Bâtiments had been seized. He sent me back to you for that answer. Has the Régie des Bâtiments indeed been seized of this request? Has financial compensation been requested for the occupation of the Palace of Justice? If so, what is the amount and how was this amount determined? If not, how can we justify the free occupation of a federal building?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u59	Madam Member, thank you for your question. Like my colleague the Minister of Justice, I can confirm the following. The applicant, the Reform Movement, which I learn you are following the videos on Facebook, has applied to the first president of the Court of Cassation. This one actually transited through my firm. We relayed the request to the first President of the Court of Cassation and also to the Régie des Bâtiments, in order to produce a video at the Palais de Justice in Brussels, dedicated to annual wishes. All requests were made and accepted. It was not a political congress. For this occupation, the President of the Court of Cassation has expressly requested that the occupation be limited to two hours, and only in the room of the lost, which, as a reminder, is a space open to the public. These two requirements were met by the applicant. The shooting took place on a Saturday, in order to limit the impact on the justiciable. Finally, as a reminder, Mrs Matz, many places belonging to the State, such as the Palais de Justice in Brussels, are accessible subject to certain conditions: demand, assurances, limitation of the occupation, limitation of the impact on the occupants of the premises, as part of the production of photographs, videos or films. This happens very regularly. As part of the shooting at the Palais de Justice in Brussels, no compensation is sought from the applicant, neither by the Régie des Bâtiments nor by the judicial order. I can also assure you that the neutrality of justice has always been preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I'd like to ask you about the sequence of authorizations. Is it the Régie des Bâtiments which first marked its agreement, and then the president of the Court of Cassation who specified the modalities with the two hours of shooting on Saturday, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Or did the solicitations take place in the opposite order? I do not know if I can, Mr President, allow me this supplementary question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u61	There is freedom of speech for Members in the replies, possibly with a sub-question. It's up to the Secretary of State to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u62	With great pleasure! Basically, the request came to my office. We forwarded the application to the Régie des Bâtiments, which sent it to the President of the Court of Cassation. The latter responded, as I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u63	So there was a form of... The Régie des Bâtiments said: "For us, this is no problem. It's up to you." Basically, if I understand correctly. You're telling me that many films have been made in various public buildings. First of all, it's not just any public building. And it is obviously not just any video film, nor has it been filmed; since it is the wishes of a political party. The fact that an organization, association, commercial company is making wishes from a courthouse or a state building is not exactly the same, if I may say so, as if a political party were doing so. You guarantee, of course, that the neutrality and impartiality of justice have been guaranteed on this occasion. You also know that what matters is the appearance that is given; and it is true that in relation to the appearance of neutrality and impartiality, one can obviously be a little circumspect. That's what leaves me a little hungry. In my question to the Minister of Justice, another non-democratic party had joined me and did not fail to say that it would obviously make such a move with your cabinet, the Régie or the President of the Court of Cassation, since it had been granted once. This, of course, opens the door to many things and permissions which, in our democratic State, would not be admissible. I just think that this is a very bad example that has been given and that it leaves the door open to a series of things that I have just told you. It opens the door to the likelihood that undemocratic parties that challenge the very pillars of our State, and the fundamental principles that guarantee it as the impartiality of justice, will use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic675x.u64	Parliament always has the last word unless the Secretary of State had additional elements. We take note of your reply, which will therefore be included in the record of our proceedings. I think, Mr Secretary of State, apart from Mrs De Jonge, whom I have not heard from, that, unless we are mistaken, we have exhausted all the questions scheduled for this afternoon. I thank you, in any case, for the exercise, and for the information and answers you have given to colleagues. Thank you very much, we will meet for a next sitting when there are enough questions.
