ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u1	I am taking over the Presidency today from Mr Warmoes, who is apologized. When I leave, my colleague Merckx will take over. Mr Depoorter is absent because of illness and has asked to postpone her questions. The combined questions can of course be asked, unless colleagues have indicated that they can be postponed. There are again many questions on the agenda, so I would like to ask you to respect speaking time as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u2	Minister, if a child has a urinary tract infection, the majestic preparation of nitrofurantoin in syrup form is the doctor's first choice in the scientific field. However, this syrup will not be refunded. As a result, one bottle costs around 20 euros for the patient. The doctors who wrote to me about this find that incomprehensible, as Furadantine, which is the nitrofurantoine capsules, will be repaid. Doctors are therefore sometimes inclined to prescribe heavier antibiotics such as cefuroxime or amoxicillin. This is certainly not a good idea in the light of the fight against antibiotic resistance. Why is the majestic preparation of nitrofurantoin not being repaid? Are you going to cure that? What do you think about this non-refunding antibiotic resistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u3	Ms Merckx, in 2015, a company had already applied for registration on the list of raw materials for recoverable magistral preparations, but the macro-crystal nature of the product could not be demonstrated by the company, as requested by the Council. The file was therefore suspended. Insurance may be granted in respect of majestic preparations in which recoverable proprietary medicinal products are prescribed for processing. Several conditions must be met, and I will give you three. Firstly, there is no active ingredient in this proprietary medicinal product included in the list of raw materials for magistral preparations. Secondly, the proprietary medicinal product is listed as Annex 1 to the Royal Decree of 1 February. Those two conditions were met in that file. The third condition, however, is that the processed proprietary medicinal product must not concern a modified release form. The particular form of Furadantine, namely macro-crystals, allows better bioavailability of the active substance. If this macro-crystal nature cannot be demonstrated, there is a problem with the dossier and its inclusion in majestic form is not permitted. The majestic preparation is therefore not eligible for reimbursement. So much for the technical background. Since 1 January 2002, the Commission has reviewed applications for reimbursement for medicinal products (CTG) and has put forward a proposal for reimbursement for the Minister for Social Affairs, who will then have to decide whether or not to register the proprietary medicinal product in the list of recoverable proprietary medicinal products. Furadantine MC has been included in the list of recoverable proprietary medicinal products since 1980, is indicated in the treatment of acute lower urinary tract infections and prevention of recurrent chronic lower urinary tract infections and is a prophylaxis in transurethral procedures or after surgical intervention on the urinary tract. Like most antibiotics, this speciality is refunded in category C. During the procedure for antibiotic dossiers, the CTG shall take into account the risks of antibiotic resistance in its evaluation and in the formulation of the refund proposal. You know that we attach great importance to antimicrobial resistance. A national action plan has also been developed on this subject, which sets out a number of operational objectives and action points around ten strategic priorities, the two of which are the main prevention of infection and the sensible use of antimicrobials. You can find more information about that national action plan on our website. That is actually an answer to your second question, namely to what extent we take account of the fight against antimicrobial resistance. That is an important matter. Contrary to what your colleagues may have hoped, the majestic preparation simply cannot qualify for reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u4	Minister, if I understood correctly, microcrystals could not be prepared by the pharmacist for a technical reason. The only solution to administer it to children would be a commercial form of this syrup.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u5	Could you repeat that last one, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u6	If I understood you correctly, you said there was a problem with the microcrystals. The macrocrystallein nature could not be demonstrated, causing the majestic preparation...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u7	... doesn't get paid back.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u8	...will not be repaid. As a result, the only solution for a refund is the introduction of a commercial variant. Did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u9	I'm afraid to give a ruling on that. In order to be eligible for reimbursement, there should be a majestic preparation which does not entail any change in the delivery of the product. So one has to match the quality of Furadantine, if I explain it correctly. After all, I'm not an engineer. I think this is the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u10	Thank you for your answer. I'll figure it out myself. I will also pass this on to my colleagues. Since it is scientifically recommended to initially give this product to children and to switch to heavier antibiotics because the product is not available, this is a problem. I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u11	Minister, the new European Regional Obesity Report, published by the World Health Organization (WHO), reveals that rates of overweight and obesity have reached epidemic proportions throughout the European region and continue to rise. None of the 53 European states is currently on track to achieve one of the WHO's global goals in the area of non-communicable diseases, namely to halt the spread of obesity by 2025. According to the study, almost 60% of the European population is overweight or obese and nearly one in eight children aged five to nine years have obesity. Overweight and obesity are among the leading causes of death and disability in Europe, accounting for more than 1.2 million deaths per year, representing more than 13% of overall mortality in Europe. In addition, obesity increases the risk of many diseases, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes and many others. The year 2022 could be a revolution in the treatment of obesity with the arrival of new drugs, both for rare genetic obesitys and common obesitys. These new drugs, such as Setmelanotide, have demonstrated their effectiveness in international clinical trials. They complement existing care, including nutritional and/or surgical care. Minister, it is essential to have better care and easier access to care for this serious disease with serious consequences. Do you confirm the growing numbers of obesity in Belgium? What policy interventions and options do you intend to implement in order to combat obesity? What initiatives have already been taken in this context? Do the Ministers of Health of the federated entities join the efforts called for by WHO, particularly in terms of prevention and awareness-raising? Is an inter-federal action plan possible? What about obesity medicines in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u12	Mr Rigot, the Belgian figures confirm that the situation is also worrying in our country. In 2018, the health survey conducted by Sciensano revealed that almost half (49.3%) of the adult population was overweight, while 15.9% of individuals were obese. The prevalence of overweight and obesity in adults has increased linearly and significantly since the first health survey in 1997. Men suffer more from overweight than women, although the difference is not sensitive in terms of obesity. The covid-19 survey also conducted by Sciensano in April 2020 indicates that the main changes observed during the crisis are a significant decrease in daily consumption of fruit and vegetables, an increase in the consumption of sweet and salty snacks and a decrease in the consumption of food prepared outside. A quarter of people aged 18 and over reported gaining weight since March 13, 2020. Obesity rates are higher among people who sit or lie down for eight or more hours a day and among those who have increased their consumption of sweet or salty snacks since the same date. It can therefore be seen that the pandemic has only reinforced this trend by increasing the sedentaryness and snacking of unhealthy products. I agree with you when you say that there is an urgent need for concerted action to reverse the current trend and help our citizens to eat in a healthy and balanced manner and to adopt an active lifestyle. I would point out that disease prevention and the promotion of healthy eating are essentially community-based, but this does not mean that the federal government is not taking action in relation to the development of diseases resulting from our eating habits and lifestyles. Thus, a new version of the Federal Nutrition-Health Plan (PFNS) for the period 2021-2030 is being validated by my firm. This plan was developed with a view to continuity with the period 2014-2022, by developing aspects relating to the improvement of food environments and taking into account, in particular, sustainability issues. The WHO report sets out a number of key actions for changing eating habits that are already taken into account in actions of the FNFP. These measures include the mandatory introduction of a nutrition labelling system on the front. As you know, we adopted the Nutri-Score logo in 2019. As part of the "Farm to Fork" strategy, we call for its widespread adoption at European level by the end of 2022. WHO recommends the establishment of tender guidelines for school canteens and public service canteens. In 2012, we already established a standard specification for healthy and sustainable food in schools, which was taken up by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation as a reference document for calls for tenders for school kitchens. Other WHO recommendations will also be included in the NSFP. As soon as it is final, I will communicate about it. I would also like to point out important initiatives that have been taken to combat obesity among young people through federal health insurance. First, there is an offer of specific care for children and adolescents who are faced with overweight or obesity, the costs of which are largely reimbursed under compulsory health insurance. This offer includes, on the one hand, the care programmes of the two paediatric revalidation centres and, on the other hand, an accompanying journey to the dietitian. The two major paediatric revalidation centres, Zeepreventorium in De Haan, and the Centre Médical Pediatrice Clairs Vallons in Ottignies, offer a multidisciplinary care programme for children and adolescents with, inter alia, complex obesity. In addition, since 1 April 2020, a single-discipline accompanying journey for children and adolescents in situations of overweight or obesity by a dietitian is also reimbursed under the compulsory health insurance scheme. This trip consists of a maximum of ten sessions spread over a period of two years. These sessions can take place in a centre, a hospital or outside. Starting this year, we are also planning EUR 5 million from the INAMI budget to be set aside for a care journey project for children with obesity. It is in the continuity of what already exists. I gave some examples. The idea is really to improve the trajectory so that we can offer a well-distributed multidisciplinary approach, in which children and their loved ones receive ambulatory assistance. You have to have a front-line approach, and obviously also in the third line - I mentioned the Zeepreventorium and the Clairs Vallons. But between the two, there is a second line. There is a need for systems of transition and division of labour between these three lines, which are better than those currently in place. It's an important project for me, but it's not yet finalized. A working group is working on it. The place of drugs in the management of obesity is limited. Nevertheless, there are some medicines on the Belgian market. First of all the orlistat molecule which has existed for years and which in the meantime has a generic. In 2003, the Commission for the Refund of Medicinal Products (CRM) unanimously rejected the refund. The rejection was followed by a ministerial decision at the time. Since then, the manufacturer Roche and other manufacturers, who have become holders of the drug, have never returned to the CRM. The patient pays himself, at the lowest dose, a fee of 49 euros for four months of treatment, and pays more for higher dosages. Second, there is metformin, reimbursed for an obese patient, but CBIP - Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information - advises against it in the absence of diabetes. Then there is the fixed combination of naltrexone and bupropion, medicines for which the manufacturer has never submitted a refund application to the CRM; therefore, the patient pays himself, for a usual dosage, approximately 98 euros per month. The usual dose is twice twice twice a day. Finally, there is liraglutide, a molecule marketed under two names. It is only the Saxonda brand that is intended to treat obese patients. Both the Novo Nordisk holder and the company Abacus market this medicine without health insurance. In 2020, the MRC had proposed reimbursement for a small group of obese patients and I deviated from this proposal for budgetary and social reasons. The Secretary of State for the Budget also refused it for budgetary reasons. Studies, as evaluated by CRM, have shown that the benefits observed under treatment are rapidly lost upon discontinuation of treatment. In addition, the drug was too expensive, even by applying so-called "old medicine" measures and the prevalence of obesity in this country is, as you know, much more important than the small group for which MRC was receiving a refund. Today, at an average dose, i.e. 1.8 mg/ day or a pre-filled pen covering three days, the patient's cost is approximately EUR 490/month without counting the costs of the needles. That's pretty consistent. But, of course, we still have to make decisions on the basis of therapeutic added value and the cost to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u13	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. Obesity clearly affects people's quality of life, social, professional and family life. As I said earlier, it is also an incredible factor in cardiovascular disease, diabetes and hypertension. So when you talk about impact for our company, the costs are there too. These are indirect costs both for health care and for the very functioning of our society. I am very pleased to hear that there is a real global awareness of the federated entities and the federal government. In fact, both early and preventive action is needed in therapy to identify the problems and to be able to make the problem a major public health problem, as the WHO said. So I look forward to the plan that you will be presenting to us in the coming weeks so that we can talk to you. I understand the logic of saying that we need to be vigilant about the cost of drugs, but we also need to see the most for health. If obesity is a public health issue, it is necessary to be able to provide access to these drugs for those who have no other alternative to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u14	Madam President, I'll just have a request for clarification. Normally, my question was attached to Mr. Bacquelaine's. The Chair: He is absent today. His question therefore becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u15	That's boring! Indeed, he had agreed to have the matter postponed because of my absence. Now I am obliged to ask my question, when he is not present among us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u16	He didn't ask, so ask your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u17	Every year in Belgium, almost 300 to 350 children develop leukemia or malignant tumours. These children need medicines that must be able to be reimbursed. I see that most of the time their treatment takes place via medicines called "off-label", i.e. medicines authorised for adults only, but which are nevertheless used in paediatrics in the absence of any prospect of authorisation for children. The problem is that many of these drugs are used without any indication, despite their proven efficacy in treating especially paediatric cancers. As a result, reimbursement for these medicines used for paediatric cancers is often unavailable. This obliges parents to explore other financial means to obtain these drugs, which in turn leads to emotional distress, stress in their head, but also a very important administrative burden for care providers who, for example, have to ask for free samples or payment spreads. It is my responsibility that you met the KickCancer Foundation last week on this subject, after many requests from the foundation. You would have announced at this meeting that you were busy finding a structural solution that would make it possible to reimburse the medicines, which are now identified as essential for the treatment of paediatric cancers, but also the medicines that could be used for this purpose in the near future. So you asked the foundation, but also the Belgian Paediatric Hemato-Oncology Society, to provide you with a list of "off-label" medicines in order to have a clearer idea of the situation, which should be submitted by the end of July. Minister, first of all, why are you so late in receiving the KickCancer Foundation? What do you intend to do from the "off-label" list that will be provided to you? Have you established a schedule of work, knowing that the list should be provided to you by mid-July? How do you intend to combat the slow pace of Belgian procedures for the recognition and reimbursement of an innovative medicine in particular for the treatment of paediatric cancers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u18	Mrs Rohonyi, of course, this is an important concern that you are referring to. I'm glad you mentioned treatments "accompanied by clear scientific evidence." Indeed, the children concerned have the right to treatment that works in an inequitable manner and not a treatment with a questionable benefit. For years, many anticancer treatments in underage children have been "off-label", i.e. without European recognition of their benefit-risk ratio. Nevertheless, several initiatives have been taken at European and national level to stimulate investment in product development for unmet medical needs, as I recently explained in a reply to Mrs Gilson. I do not have figures for children without access to oncolitic treatment with clear scientific evidence, as you say. I would like to remind you that the abovementioned criterion is one of the criteria for which the INAMI Special Solidarity Fund can intervene in the costs which the parents of a child suffering from malignity must pay. Recall that malignities in children remain rare. Each year, about 500 minors receive this diagnosis. Structural solutions to provide the best possible and high-quality oncological care by trained professionals are part of ongoing studies on the reform of the Belgian hospital landscape. This is in line with our approach to concentrate the management of complex pathologies in a limited number of reference centres. More particularly for medicinal products, the Royal Decree of 1 February 2018 provides for a short specific procedure for specialties intended for a typical paediatric use which are an extension of a range of a specialty reimbursed in an indication already refundable in adults. In addition, there is a good practice that the Special Solidarity Fund invites CRM to initiate evaluation files for medicinal products for which they receive several individual patient applications and for which it considers that there is scientific evidence, if any, sufficient to consider structural reimbursement. The first step is then to invite the pharmaceutical company to introduce a dossier. Sometimes I initiate myself, or the CRM initiates refund extension files on its own initiative, when we are informed, for example by a scientific association, of a particular therapeutic need in patients for whom reimbursement of the drug is not yet assured, and for whom we believe there is scientific evidence. I am open to any discussion in this regard with KickCancer and the Belgian Association of Blood-Oncologists Pediatricians mentioned above. My collaborators are in contact with them. There is nothing complex, except to find a date to set a meeting. With regard to reimbursement procedures, first of all, my colleagues are looking at early access to innovative drug treatments as part of the reform of the procedure to the opinion committee in case of temporary intervention. It's part of INAMI. This procedure, which entered into force at the end of 2014, and which can continue under the procedure of early temporary reimbursement, allows faster access to innovative medicines, and to grant a refund even before their authorisation. Despite the possibilities created by this procedure, little use is made of the system. Through these interventions in this procedure, I want to make it more attractive and thus increase early access. Secondly, I am busy looking at how to introduce a fast access procedure next to this early temporary reimbursement that I outlined for a refund as quickly as possible after authorisation by EMA; of course, not for all medicines, but for those for which the unmet need is highest. In addition to the quick access itself, the sustainability of this quick access is also very important to me. I therefore want the greatest possible guarantee that these procedures will give access to eligible medicinal products in a controlled manner. They will be evaluated and adjusted if necessary. That's my answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u19	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers, but in half-tone. I will join you when you say that children are not guinea pigs and that they are entitled to medicines whose scientific effectiveness is clear. But today we're talking about drugs that have been authorized for adults. If they have been authorized by pediatricians and oncologists who take care of these children, it is because these doctors are responsible and recognize that these drugs are effective in treating them properly. Today, we see that there is a financial hindrance. I hear you're working on it and you're open to finding solutions with the voluntary sector. I beg you not to relativize the extent of these pediatric cancers. Of course, these cancers are still rare, but it is unbearable today to see that parents need to become poorer or in debt in order to obtain these vital drugs for their children. It is no coincidence that you do not have figures for children who do not have access to these drugs because, precisely, some parents have not been financially able to obtain them. For the rest, I can only encourage you in your steps even if I remain a little on my hunger about your work schedule to arrive at a correct solution for these parents and their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u20	As it happens, we have had a number of exchanges of views on the so-called 25% rule in the margins of the budget debate and the discussion of a draft law. The Quality Act of 2019 provides for the equalisation of reimbursement for conflicted and non-conventional care providers through Articles 85 and 86. Last year, I also asked you why Articles 85 and 86 did not enter into force, so that inequality persists. This inequality applies not only to physiotherapists, but also to midwifes, logopedists and self-employed nurses. You indicated that a task force would be set up from the RIZIV with representatives of insurance institutions, professional organisations, your policy cell and patient umbrella representatives to examine the relevance of the 25% rule. You indicated that you would like to examine the matter thoroughly before submitting a proposal to the Council of Ministers. What is the outcome of the task force's investigation? In the meantime, was the file submitted to the Council of Ministers? When will there be an end to the difference in reimbursement, as required by the Quality Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u21	We have indeed discussed this quite recently in plenary. This is indeed one of the fact sheets presented in the multiannual path of the RIZIV, with a view to setting priorities for budgetary work in the coming years. The subject will be discussed in future discussion. In the assessment it was cited that the issue requires further discussion and further investigation. A number of circles have suggested that consideration should be given to whether there are better alternatives if we want to promote the provision of benefits by health professionals than simply abolishing the 25% rule. Of course, that has a reverse effect. As I said in plenary, the 25% rule means that social security is concentrating its resources on the care providers of the paramedics working under the convention. The 25% rule does not apply to low-income people. A low-income person will benefit from the preferred rate and will not receive a reduction in the refund when visiting a physiotherapist. It's about people falling outside that system. In any case, I believe that a much more thorough debate is needed on the future of the convention system before we take the decision to abolish the 25% rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u22	Mr Minister, the use of 25% rule as a lever for increasing the degree of convention raises ethical questions, among other things. It shows a lack of decency in putting pressure on healthcare providers to agree to rates that are often too low. By the way, I am pleased that you agree with the latter and that you wish to re-evaluate the profession of physicist. You can see that they too have a place in the care landscape and can even save costs for health insurance. In order to provide quality care, certain rates must be applied. I fear that those who do not complain about rates or the 25% rule are just those who do not respect the minimum duration of 30 minutes of treatment per patient. They probably treat more than 2 patients per hour. This does not improve the quality of care. You must provide reasonable and workable rates for kinesi therapists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 55028205C by Sofie Merckx and No. 55028216C by Kathleen Depoorter, since Mrs Depoorter has been excused, is postponed with the agreement of Mrs Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u24	Minister, on the occasion of the World Day for Multiple Sclerosis, which took place on May 30, the Belgian National League for Plate Sclerosis issued an open letter calling for better care for people with this disease, which still affects 12,000 people in Belgium, two thirds of whom are women. While the ASBL acknowledges that significant efforts have been made, that treatments have been developed, it deplores the fact that this is not the case for all forms of pathology, which leads to unacceptable discrimination for some patients. The ASBL therefore calls for continued efforts and massive investment in basic research, clinical research, but also in the development of new technologies to enable, in particular, better care for people affected by the disease. Minister, what is the status of multiple sclerosis research? Are new treatments and/or technologies expected? Are new initiatives envisaged to enable early detection of the disease and to improve the management of these patients? The Belgian National League of Multiple Sclerosis hopes for legal recognition of patient associations. What can you tell us about this? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u25	Dear colleague, in order to know what future medicines and other pharmaceutical products are soon to be available, what is known as a scanning exercise must be done. The International Horizon Scanning (IHSI) is under development and will be operational by the end of 2022. This initiative aims to identify drugs under development, such as multiple sclerosis, and to assess their future impact. Belgium, via INAMI, is a direct partner of this scanning initiative. Pending the said operationalization, BeNeLuxA - our cooperation with the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria - uses the scan horizon of ZIN, Zorginsitituut Nederlands. The products currently in the line pipe for multiple sclerosis are ublituximab, a competitor of current biological products, diroximel fumarate, a competitor of dimethyl fumarate, and an extension of the indication of dimethyl fumarate and teriflunomide molecules to children with multiple sclerosis. It should be noted that, for many multiple sclerosis treatments, scientific evidence of their effectiveness remains limited, in particular the studies that compare them. This does not help physicians, patients and the organization that funds health care to form an insured choice. With regard to your question about the legal recognition of patient associations, I can tell you that it already exists and continues, as evidenced by their increasing participation in health policies and specific projects, including in a structural and official way in certain bodies: the Chronic Disease Observatory, the future Patient Forum, the Federal Commission on Patient Rights, the Medical Accident Fund or the KCE, for example. It is also worth mentioning the structural financing of the domes of patient associations. For example, the Vlaams Patienten Platform and the Ligue des Useres des services de santé (LUSS) are funded by INAMI to provide reimbursement and support to patients. These are just as many examples of the recognition that you're talking about and that is manifested mainly through the cupolas of patient associations. The Belgian League of Plaque Sclerosis is a member of the LUSS and is therefore recognized in a certain sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u26	Minister, I thank you for your clarification, particularly with regard to new treatments and technologies. We know that all this takes a lot of time and that patients have to wait, since the effects of some treatments are random and vary from patient to patient, improving the quality of life of only some of them. It all depends on the form taken by the disease in each of them. As far as recognition is concerned, I understand what you're saying. In any case, the existence of these associations is of paramount importance, in view of their daily assistance to patients, who can rely on their services when they find themselves deprived of such a disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u27	Minister, the general practitioner is, as we all know, an essential link in our health care system. From the first line this person is the gatekeeper of the second line, but he is first and foremost also a confidant. A number of medical-technical operations, in this case gynecological operations, can be performed in both the first and the second line, for example taking a swab or placing a hormone spiral or a hormone implant. As from 1 March 2022, the implanting of hormones via a spiral or rod will no longer be reimbursed, so that this instrument will not pay at all for a general practitioner, who must be able to make sufficient time to do such an operation. In the past, however, a limited fee of 12 euros was foreseen. What was the reason why the act with the nomenclature number in question should not be repaid? Is it intended that such gynecological activities, which can actually be carried out perfectly in the first line, should only be referred to the second line? Is there an assessment of the impact of this decision? Will the threshold to the second line not be too high for some people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u28	Mrs Gijbels, I have a tendency to refer to questions that you yourself have raised or that you have raised, and which I also share, which said that we should look critically at what is happening in health care and ask us whether it is all as effective as it is. This is an example of such an inquiry. The fees for code 149030, the implantation of hormones K10, were set to zero as part of measures designed for the effectiveness of care. This was a total package of measures of EUR 40 million, in implementation of a national medical-health fund agreement 2021. It is considered that such a procedure is reasonably easy to implement and is an integral part of a consultation. In this context, it should not therefore give rise to a specific refund on top of the remuneration for this consultation. Moreover, this provision today is largely improperly used for the injection of Zoladex, among other things. As a result of this decision, the current fee of €13.04 lapses. During the preparation of the measures, it was proposed to proceed in two stages and not to immediately abolish the provision. By setting the fees at zero, we can better assess the impact of such measures on healthcare providers. In this context, an evaluation is foreseen one year after the implementation of the measure. It is not intended to move this type of procedure to the second line, which also has no specific code for this hormonal implantation. The expected impact of setting the remuneration for this provision at zero is roughly EUR 732,000 on a yearly basis. This provision can always be made to the general practitioner if the medical situation so permits.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u29	Minister, when I talk about effective care, I still have other things in mind, such as overconsumption and non-scientific practices that we need to take out. However, I do not understand this. You say that this should be part of a consultation. The setting up of a spiral is really not an easy thing to do, and I think that there should be a certain amount of compensation. You should also remember that the threshold to the second line is high for many patients, so I hope that there will be financial benefits. I am asking myself questions and I hope that the social impact of these exercises will also be taken into account in such exercises. I do not think this is a good way to take effective care. I really think there are a lot of other things that do qualify.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 55028339C by Mrs Van Hoof is postponed at her request. Debates of the European Parliament 55028367C and 55028983C by Mr De Caluwé and Mr Rigot were postponed. Mrs Jadin is not present, so her question No. 55028416C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u31	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you today the question about Revlimid, because the price of this product was already mentioned in the press. Revlimid is an anticancer medicine that has been used in our country since 2015. One pill of Revlimid costs about 255 euros in Belgium. According to Test Purchase, it cost €75 million for the RIZIV in 2018. The Christian Mutuality also made a study on very expensive medicines that are delivered to the hospital pharmacy. Revlimid or lenalidomide came out as the second most expensive medicine. In March, a very strong price reduction was announced in the Netherlands for Revlimid, because the patent expired on Revlimid, which means that generic producers will offer the product for about 1 euro per pill. A 99 percent drop in prices in Belgium, based on the 2018 Test Purchase figures, would mean a saving of approximately 74 million euros on our budget. In Belgium, however, Revlimid is still under secret contract, concluded by then Minister De Block. That contract was renewed, with the spicy detail that the person responsible for the secret contracts at Mrs De Block's cabinet in 2019 switched to the company Celgene, which brings Revlimid to the market. Mr. Secretary, will you terminate the secret contract on Revlimid? Following your reply to one of my written questions, I know that the contract normally runs until the end of August. Will you terminate the contract sooner or later, as the patent expired? What is your consideration of the rotating door policy in the Cabinets? Will you, as in the Netherlands, issue a public invitation to tender to reduce the price of lenalidomide? How does your administration follow price reductions abroad? How do you feel about the fact that such drastic price reductions are foreseen abroad, while the product is still under secret contract in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u32	First question, will you cancel the contract regarding Revlimid? It runs until June 30th, that's not long. At the end of May, a procedure was concluded with the Medicines Committee, which led to a final registration of Revlimid, in indications for which this was not the case, from 1 July. In this sense, your question is not dated, but the context will now be changed. Are you, as in the Netherlands, going to tender for Lenalidomide? The price quoted in your question, 1 euro per pill, is not based on the official list price of Lenalidomide in the Netherlands. The list price levels in Belgium and the Netherlands are very similar. The price you quote for Revlimid in the Netherlands, the list price, cannot be compared directly with the official list price in Belgium. Pharmaceutical specialities purchased by hospital pharmacists also have discounts which, allegedly, can be substantial. We don't know them either. In fact, when you talk about the Netherlands, you are describing the discount policy that companies grant to hospitals. Having said that, in addition, following the final registration and the opening of the reference cluster in accordance with our current regulations, Revlimid's list price in Belgium will decrease significantly on 1 July, to the level of the generics that have already been reimbursed today. You're asking me how I'm gonna follow up the price cuts abroad. From the department for Medical Care, the Pharmaceutical Policy Directorate of the RIZIV, there is indeed a follow-up to the price changes abroad. Recently, a team of budget analysts has been appointed to further develop the project PU6 International Awards. This project raises prices outside the company twice a year from the pharmaceutical companies for the proprietary medicinal products concerned in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Ireland, Finland and Austria. The pharmaceutical companies are obliged, in accordance with the provisions of Article 72a (1) of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, to share this information with the Institute. These data are collected in a database and then thoroughly processed and analysed. The published prices in the six European countries mentioned above can also be used by the companies themselves to apply for an exception to the saving measure for old medicines. In addition, for certain CTG procedures, for example for individual revisions, pharmaceutical companies must demonstrate prices in other countries where a specialty is commercialised. If prices are lower in a particular country, it may be requested to align with them. Such information on prices in other countries can also be obtained in contractual negotiations in the context of the application for reimbursement. On your fourth question, I would like to say that it is always the case that we are trying to definitively register a medicinal product, which is temporarily registered through an agreement, for the expiry of the patent or to remove it from the list of recoverable medicines. Too often we find that there is no willingness at the pharmaceutical companies to lower the list price to an acceptable level of costs for the permanent registration of the patent. This needs to change. We are now working on a structural solution to this problem. It is also one of the elements we want to discuss in the context of ongoing discussions with industry. You will ask what I am doing about the revolving door policy. If by that you mean that officials or politicians who are responsible for regulation or supervision of a particular sector switch to a particular position in a private company, working in exactly this or similar sector, I can say that I do not have the power to take policy initiatives in it, but I do have confidence in the deontology of my staff. I think they are obliged to carry out their mission with the greatest care for the public interest. I think they do, too. Are measures necessary? I can say that we are already handling very scruply and cautiously in our direct contacts with the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u33	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Firstly, you say that this question is without object, as the contract is about to expire. According to your answer to a written question from me, that would be at the end of August. An sich is not normal for a secret contract to continue when there are already generic products on the market. Something's going badly wrong. Although these generic products are already available, they still pay at least 3 times as much according to the data we have received. You say that from 1 July you will pay the same brake charge as for the generic product. That's very soon. The price of the generic product in Belgium is currently one third of the brand product Revlimid. That price is still much higher than the price in the Netherlands for this product. In my view, that is another major system error. I'll be sure to follow that up. Even if the pharmacist's margin is deducted, the price difference cannot be justified in relation to the price in the Netherlands. You say that the hospital pharmacists receive certain discounts from the firms, but eventually social security will pay them back in full. The price will eventually remain the official price on the website. Eventually they pay that much too high a price. This is the textbook example of public procurement. Why not do this so that the selling price is printed and a correct amount is paid to the suppliers? The Dutch example already gives an idea about the size of savings that are possible as a result. I will certainly come back to that. As far as the policy of turning the door is concerned, you say that you have no authority to take initiatives on this matter. However, you are a member of the Federal Government, which is competent to take measures in relation to the revolving door policy. It may not be a coincidence that the person who negotiated the Revlimid contract with Celgene from Mrs De Block's cabinet made the switch to Celgene. Of course I'm not sure, but it's strange that the duration of this contract runs so far after the end of the patent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u34	Mr Minister, this is a written question that has been tabled before. As a result, I am also asking for a lot of figures. However, you do not have to read these figures, if you have them, your employee can give them to me. The question is about the shortage of general practitioners. Figures showed that in autumn 2021 three out of four Flemish municipalities were poor for general practitioners. Ten years ago, we provided a sum to subsidise practices in low-quality regions, especially border regions, and thus to encourage people. At that time, the figures didn't seem as bad as they are now. Minister, my generation is, of course, also starting to retire. There's more retiring than pouring in. That means a danger. That's why I'm asking for figures for each province. I also referred to my region, the Kempen, a border region with the Netherlands, where the general practitioners are better paid and framed than in Flanders and Belgium. As a result, there are many general practitioners who cross the border. Of course, there is also this problem in other regions. My question is a little dated, since you have already announced steps at the beginning of this month. It seems like good moves to me. One of the most important steps in the area of administrative nuisance concerns the sick note for one day. In particular, however, support for group practices and multidisciplinaryness should be provided. Perhaps limited co-investment by the government could create incentives to respond to general practitioners' poverty, leading to the urgency of the situation, which would require more social security than is the case with the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u35	Mr Verherstraeten, I will send you a few pages of figures, both on the provinces in general and on the municipalities in the Kempen in particular. My answer is also included. Your question comes as called for, because your figures support the observation that we have an important problem. You spoke of the retirement of general practitioners. Grosso modo can be said to require a new and a half GP to replace a departing GP, partly because young GPs want to work in a different way, which is quite normal in the light of the new ideas about combining work and life. All of this creates additional pressure, but other factors also create a huge pressure on general medical practice. That is why, for the weekend, I delivered a note to the doctors' organisations, which you will also find on my website, in which I propose a new deal with short-term measures but in which I will also draw a new perspective. In the short term, it is, in fact, primarily a question of adequate and well-distributed general practitioners. Hence the importance of the federal agreement on quota. A great deal has already been discussed in this committee and what we federally propose seems to me to be quite logical. Let me quote two figures. Ten years ago, we set a quota of at least 300 general practitioners. By 2028, ten years later, we are now setting a quota of 868 general practitioners to be formed, in consultation with the Communities competent for this purpose. That is half of the total quota and therefore represents an extraordinary expansion. That proves that you will remember the debates with Mrs van Peel, including in the plenary session, that we are living in a different time, in which we need to bring in significantly more general practitioners who must also be well distributed. The revision of that planning and of the rhetoric around it is therefore really necessary. So we need to get enough general practitioners in and they need to be well distributed. Of course, you are well aware of the state reform. The establishment premium, which really enables us to act directly on incentives to settle here and there, has been a competence of the Länder since the sixth state reform, but you will read in the note that I would like to think about whether we might be able to do something federally to encourage general practitioners to settle in the outskirts rather than in cities. Maybe we federally can do something creative to do something about it, but the settlement premium..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You spoke about dealing with the administrative burden and rightly referred to the sickness note. There are other possibilities for prescribing medicines, certificates of incapacity for work. We need to work on this with great urgency. In fact, I would like us to take really important steps forward towards the end of 2024. We also need to provide support with practical nurses and practitioners. This is again something that we need to discuss with the Länder, because it is also about new training that is needed, but as you say, we can look for a way to encourage the recruitment of such practitioners. Of course, there is also the whole question of organisation and funding. However, it is necessary to sit around the table to reflect on fundamental developments that are needed, with less emphasis than today on performance funding and more on practical support. Finally, I will conclude with the five pillars of the European Union: digitalisation, teleconsultations and so on. I have announced that I am putting a working group to work at federal level, in which I would also like to involve a sufficient number of young general practitioners, because I think that is important. I would, of course, like to do so in good dialogue with my colleagues in the Länder, who also have important powers. You will be given the figures which underline this need by my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u36	Mr Minister, (...) at present is and is also in the interest of our social security. Minister, I can only support the working group. In any case, I would suggest that you involve the Communities so that we can strengthen each other's policies. The figure I have just heard from you, namely 868, is phenomenal, compared to the figure ten years ago. Possibly there are opportunities in that too. You indicated that the establishment premium had been transferred to the Communities and that you wanted to see what you could do in that area. Perhaps it is possible to make asymmetric choices in certain areas, not in function of the North and the South of the country but in function of regions where the needs are greater than in the other, peu importe in which language community those needs exist. At the moment, the regions with which I do not mean the Communities and the regions where the situation is most serious must be dealt with first, regardless of their location in that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u37	Of all reports to the Brussels Language Complaints Office, most are about the lack of knowledge, not to say incompetence, of Dutch at the emergency services and at the MUGs. This, of course, not only causes misunderstandings, but can also lead to life-threatening problems because the Flemish cannot be helped in its own language in the Brussels capital. Unfortunately, those aren't singles. Unfortunately, many Dutch-speaking families, mainly from the Flemish Rand, have already experienced this situation. Of course, they find that vengeful and cannot possibly or incredibly difficult to understand that such qualified people are not powerful in the Dutch language or perhaps not speaking out of unwillingness. Certain Brussels hospitals are the fastest to provide assistance on the outskirts, i.e. the Pajottenland or the grape region. People from the Pajottenland or the Grape Region are then transferred to Brussels hospitals. On the other hand, it is an absolute must and a deontological duty that both the MUG doctor and the doctor at the emergency department master the language of the region where he observes the permanence. Brussels is a bilingual area. Bilingualism is enshrined in language legislation. This is not a new issue, but an old one, which is likely to become more and more problematic. Figures showed that the lack of Dutch-speaking services in hospitals doubled. The situation has never been worse. This is not only a matter of principle for the N-VA, but also a matter that can lead to a fatal outcome when people in acute emergencies cannot be helped in their own language. The latter also confirmed the speakers at the hearings in the Flemish Parliament. I know that you are not only responsible for this issue, but what will you do, by your authority, to ensure the bilingualism of the official emergency services, of the 100 and of the MUGs in Brussels? What will you do to oblige officially bilingual public hospitals to comply with language legislation? Are you prepared to withdraw any subsidies for certain public hospitals in the event of repeated violation of language legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u38	Mrs Goethals, the subject of your question is not new in the hemisphere. It was also included by the previous government in the then coalition agreement. Unfortunately, it was not resolved. It was then examined how language can be anchored within the law on urgent medical care and within the law on the exercise of the profession. Neither one nor the other, however, were able to provide a conclusive answer. Each time the principle of equality is challenged, whereby a language obligation would give rise to the obligation for every healthcare professional to prove that he or she is powerful in the three national languages, because every healthcare professional is entitled to exercise his or her profession throughout Belgium when he or she obtains his or her visa. Today we can only base ourselves on the Royal Decree of 18 July 1966 on the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters. According to that legislation, all the mosquito teams of all hospitals located within the Brussels-Capital Region and the ambulances of the Brussels fire department should guarantee bilingualism. They are all subject to the Royal Decree. Public hospitals are totally covered. Private and university hospitals are covered by the Royal Decree of 18 July 1966 only if they carry out a public service mission beyond the limits of the private enterprise and have been entrusted by law or public authorities in the interest of the general public. This is particularly the case when organising emergency services and/or mosquitoes recognised by the competent administration. The language role of the staff is of minor importance in this respect. The bilingual nature of the service must be guaranteed. For the mosquito teams and ambulance services from across the language line, the maps are different. Since they are located in a monolingual area, they recruit their staff monolingually. That is, of course, the case on both sides of the language border. The monitoring of the implementation of the Royal Decree of 18 July 1966 concerning the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters shall be carried out by the Standing Committee on Linguistic Supervision. The sanctions provided for in respect of infringements do not allow for any of the measures you propose. There can be no disciplinary action against non-officials. It is also difficult for a court of peace to impose on an sworn translator the translation of an oral communication. The last resort is and will remain the deontological code of the health care professional, to which you rightly refer. That code states that the healthcare professional should treat and inform his patient as much as possible in his own language. Many health professionals, especially those in urgent medical care, whose aim is to help people, are doing their utmost to follow it as best they can, even if they are deployed across the language line or if the patient speaks a language other than our three national languages. However, it is important to continue to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u39	Of course, Minister, I am not learning anything new from your reply. You've figured that out yourself. However, it is a problem which we must not underestimate and which we must insist on. About a month and a half ago, a Dutch-speaking patient was taken to a French-speaking hospital by a mosquito. So there could not be communication with the lady in question, who then died. Even her family couldn't be informed of that. These are poignant situations that we must not allow. It can't be. This needs work and solutions. There is no easy solution, but it is also difficult. I can give you another example of my daughter in her senior year of medicine. She had to take her final exam and received a flawed French-speaking patient. Fortunately, she does speak a word of French. At first, the patient said it was about her knee, but after further questioning my daughter realized that it wasn't quite kosher, it turned out to be about surgery on her ankle. This incident was fortunately but a final exam of a student, but we cannot accept that someone cannot express himself in a stress situation, for example when it is recorded with mosquitoes. We cannot accept that in a country like this. Bilingualism in Brussels is a necessity and we must continue to work on it. My group will continue to insist on this, which is too important for everyone's health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u40	Minister, we have had a euthanasia law for 20 years. It clearly states that euthanasia can only be performed under specified conditions. The patient must meet the conditions of the law. The doctor who wishes to apply a euthanasia on a voluntary basis must also follow the proper procedure and report the euthanasia to the federal euthanasia committee. Twenty years later, euthanasia seems to be an acquired right: the law is widely supported, both by society and by healthcare professionals and doctors. However, it appeared that the 2002 legislative text was not sufficiently clear on its application in hospitals and residential care centres, among others. Healthcare institutions often moved behind their statutes and their vision not to allow euthanasia within their walls, although the law only gives a doctor, thus a person, the right to refuse on the basis of a conscience clause, not to a care institution. In order to remove this ambiguity, this Parliament adopted a legislative amendment in April 2020, which makes it clear that no clause, whether written or not, should prevent a doctor from applying euthanasia, subject to the legal conditions. Despite this addition, there are still healthcare institutions that forbid their doctors from applying a legal euthanasia. To camouflage this, they often call on the ethics committee of the hospital, which then conducts an additional a-priority investigation to allow or refuse the execution of the euthanasia. Worse still is the case of the Jan Palphine Hospital, where at the end of last year a doctor was temporarily suspended in an investigation into a so-called illegal euthanasia. I would like to hear from you whether the government is imposing rules on this and to which such an ethical committee of a health care institution must comply. Is a decision of an ethics committee of a hospital or care institution on a personal case of euthanasia above the federal law on euthanasia and in particular the added sentence to which I just referred? Can sanctions be imposed on healthcare institutions, especially hospitals and their management, which intimidate their doctors not to carry out euthanasia?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u41	Madam President, Mr De Caluwé, the ethics committee is covered by the co-ordinated law on hospitals and other care facilities of 10 July 2008 and the Royal Decree of 23 October 1964 laying down the standards to be respected by hospitals and their services. With regard to that royal decision, I refer to the Annex, in particular Article N1, A, III, 9b. According to those provisions, the ethics committee of a hospital has, inter alia, an accompanying and advisory function with regard to the ethical aspects of hospital care and a supporting function with regard to decisions on individual cases of ethics. Those functions shall be exercised whenever the Committee receives a request to that effect. The request may be made by any staff member of the hospital and by any doctor. The opinions and opinions of the Committee shall be confidential and shall not be binding. They are the subject of a reasoned report, which is transmitted exclusively to the applicant, reflecting the different views of the members. Ethical committees therefore have no decision-making power, either in respect of a request for advice in relation to euthanasia or in respect of any other request. As far as the euthanasia law is concerned, no derogation from Article 14 is allowed. However, the Law of 28 May 2002 does not provide for specific sanctions against institutions which would not comply with those provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the ethics committees do not give binding opinions or have any decision-making power. Of course, they do have a certain moral authority in certain hospitals. I think we should take a closer look at that. You are right to point out that sanctions are not possible. I think it is a serious problem, as people's choices about the end of life must be respected. The freedom of doctors must also be guaranteed in this respect. This is not the case everywhere at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u43	Minister, on March 23, 2021, I asked you about an injustice felt by all the hematologists in the country who would like the political world to dwell on it because, if it were to be repaired, it would greatly improve the existence of leukemia. Busulfan, a major treatment for the disease, is given intravenously to minors with the right to a refund. On the other hand, for adults, it is given orally, without reimbursement; moreover, the choice of the oral route may be toxic to the patient due to the invariability of the absorption of the product by the intestine. As a result of my intervention on March 23, 2021, you said: "I agree with you that a refund of busulfan should be extended to adults. I will ask AFMPS and INAMI to comment on the various evidences in adults, together with the firm concerned and the scientific societies." Minister, my questions are very simple. More than a year later, have you engaged in discussions with AFMPS and INAMI on the issue of reimbursement of intravenous injection of busulfan, de facto removing the age criterion for people with leukemia? If so, what is their position in this context? Finally, can progress also be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u44	Mr Prévot, I have indeed asked the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products (CRM) to initiate a procedure to analyse the scientific data, the clinical needs and the budgetary impact of a possible reimbursement of busulfan for intravenous administration in adult patients during a haematopoietic stem cell transplantation procedure. The CRM gave a positive opinion on the reimbursement of the speciality Busilvex, the commercial specialty concerned for adult patients. The firm agreed with the CRM proposal. On the basis of this proposal, I have taken a positive decision which will enter into force on 1 July. Unfortunately, the company informed AFMPS on 25 March of production problems with a breakdown in the availability of the product in Belgium from July until the end of March 2023 for paediatric patients in addition to the extension of the reimbursement for adult patients. A derogation for the importation of this specialty was granted by AFMPS for paediatric and adult patients hoping that the import of foreign packaging of this specialty will be sufficient for the therapeutic coverage of all Belgian patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u45	Minister, thank you for your response and for your request to the CRM. I am glad to hear that the latter has given a positive opinion for adult patients and that you have decided to provide a refund for them from 1 July. However, my joy is somewhat nuanced, especially given the shortage announced until March 2023. It is therefore only to be hoped that imports will be sufficient to allow further processing. In any event, I thank you once again for addressing this issue and for addressing the imbalance between adults and children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u46	Questions Nos. 55028517C, 55028518C, 55028521C, 55028522C, 55028523C, 55028524C, 55028525C and 55028526C by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter were deferred. Questions Nos. 55028560C, 55028561C, 55028562C, 55028563C, 55028564C, 55028565C, 55028566C and 55028567C by Ms. Frieda Gijbels are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u47	Mr Minister, I see that you are a little confused, but the questions I have just had translated into written questions are questions that I had initially submitted in writing, but for which the deadline for reply had expired. I had therefore tabled them as oral questions, but I understand that the answers are there, so you can simply send them to me in writing. The collective agreement for doctors-specialists in training (ASOs) sets out the guidelines for the minimum working conditions to be respected. The RIZIV and the government provide EUR 10 million and EUR 20 million on an annual basis to facilitate that collective agreement. This new agreement has been in force for almost a year, but there are signs that the agreement is not being applied correctly everywhere. That's why I'd like to ask the following questions. When did the National Joint Committee on Doctors Hospitals carry out an evaluation? What's the outcome of that? According to what rhythm or on what basis are systematic evaluations organised? How will the EUR 30 million be used be monitored? Are the internships all aware that more funding was provided for this in terms of hospital funding? Has there been an initial evaluation with the students and/or trainees on the application of the agreement and, if so, what is the outcome? How is it evaluated whether students and trainees report their actual hours? Is there an independent hotline where systematic exceedances of agreed working hours can be reported in confidence? How many inspections have been carried out by your services and what is the outcome of that? What role does the Supreme Court play in registering complaints? Which other bodies can students and trainees contact with complaints? In what way are these complaints bundled and reported? How far do you stand with your plans to work on pension building and an unemployment allowance for the HAIOs and the ASOs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u48	Mrs Gijbels, the coincidence is that I actually gave a comprehensive answer to your questions 1 to 5 in this committee in response to questions from your colleagues Hennuy and Merckx on 7 June 2022. In order to buy time, I will simply refer to the report of that sitting, which is very complete. I can also give you the answer, but I suggest that I do not read it because otherwise it is just a repeat. However, you add a sixth question on complaints, and I would like to go into that in detail. If a doctor-specialist in training finds himself in a situation which affects the quality of his or her training and that of other doctors-specialists in training and which involves the non-respect of the regulations in force, or if he or she is witnessing them, it is advisable to inform the High Council for Doctors-Specialists and GPs. The Hoge Raad can then verify whether the internship manager or internship service still complies with the agreed conditions of recognition. These problems include: - the quality framework or supervision in accordance with the rules set out in Articles 36 and 37 of the Ministerial Decision of 23 April 2014, - regular organisation of, and access to, activities relating to the specialisation in question: seminars, case discussions, feedback on medical publications and access to interdisciplinary meetings; - access to training activities, theoretical and scientific activities, access to an appropriate place of residence during night shifts. That is the kind of problem that we believe should be brought to the attention of the Supreme Court as a specialist in training or as a witness to it. There are also other parties who can assist in training assistants who are confronted with problems during their training. Those who are differ according to the nature of the problem: the Order of Doctors, for example, for everything related to deontology, or the recognition committees for clinical performance and activities or the course of the internship. So there too one can go. As regards working conditions, it is always recommended that the assistant in training should initially address the internship master, the coordinating internship master, the institution or the university. As a last resort, when internal mediation is not successful, one can address the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, which is responsible for the application of social legislation. I would like to remind you that my administration has taken the initiative, in consultation with the association of doctors-specialists in training, to bring together all practical information for doctors-specialists in training in an electronically available brochure. There is also a clear indication of where he or she can deal with complaints. You will find this brochure online, on the website www.aso-macs.be, under 'Overzicht'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u49	Minister, I do not think you have answered the last question. It was about the plans for retirement and the unemployment allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u50	I had already replied to that last time. I said what I had to say. You will find that in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u51	Good. You say that the Supreme Court can be consulted in a number of cases. You indicate it yourself and you have also picked up these signals: it is sometimes difficult to find its way in all these organs and to know where to go with problems. Initially, the problem has to be reported to the internship manager, to the coordinating internship teacher or to the university, but this is always about bodies that have an impact on the quoting. So it's an unequal relationship. That threshold is not to be underestimated. It is certainly important to bring together the different bodies and to clarify where questions and problems can be addressed. However, I also call for an independent ombudsperson, who is easily accessible and accessible, so that delicate issues can be raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Samyn's 55028616C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u53	Madam Chair, Minister, new covid-19 infections are on the rise, which had not happened in several weeks. This slight epidemic recovery would be linked in particular to the circulation of Omicron subvariants. The experts are rather reassuring, believing that this is more like the beginning of a summer wave, rather than a large wave of contamination as in the past. Minister, should we be concerned about this increase in contamination or do you think, like some experts, that this is just the beginning of a small wave of contamination? We know that different companies and researchers are looking for a "super vaccine" that would be effective against all current and future variants of coronavirus. What is the status of research in this context? Finally, a fourth dose is available for immunocompromised people since 1 February. What do you envisage for the rest of the population as part of the anticipation of a possible resurgence in the fall? Are there any ongoing discussions with your colleagues from the federated entities in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u54	Mrs Zanchetta, the latest figures provided by Sciensano point to a further increase in the various indicators aimed at identifying the epidemiological situation in Belgium. For example, during the week of 11-17 June, new cases detected increased by 46% compared to the previous week, with an average of 2,756 infections per day. This is the effect of the emergence of variants BA.4 and especially BA.5, responsible today for more than half of the infections. New hospitalizations also increased by 24% compared to the previous week, reaching just over 76 hospital admissions per day. The intensive care occupancy rate for the same period decreased by 6%. The number of tests carried out in the country increased slightly, with an average of more than 11,336 tests per day. The positivity rate continued to rise to 25.3%. The rate of reproduction (Rt) of the virus in the population during the same period has also increased and is again higher than the value of 1, with an exact value of 1,247. When this number is greater than 1, it means that the epidemic is growing. Even if this does not lead to a disturbing level of hospitalization, this rebound must be given the utmost attention to determine whether it requires an appropriate response or whether it is only a passenger. It should be noted that these trends are observed at the international level without any further action by the countries concerned at this stage. Definitely, the virus hasn't disappeared. A new wave may be confirmed, with no serious consequences. In the coming months, we could also be confronted with a variant that generates more serious forms or is even more contagious. The next few weeks, when many citizens go abroad on holiday, will be crucial in defining the most appropriate approach to combating the epidemic and the scale of a new vaccination campaign. That being said, to be very concrete, I have asked Mr. Dirk Ramaekers, head of the Covid-19 Focal Point, the body that replaced the Office of the Corona Commissioner at the Public Health FPS, to provide us with an opinion in close consultation with the Risk Management Group, not later than Thursday, on the epidemiological situation and on the strategic approach to be deployed. In terms of vaccination, five scenarios were already prepared in March by the "vaccination" task force, in order to identify our needs as closely as possible according to the different situations. These scenarios range from protection focused on the most vulnerable to a vaccination campaign extended to the entire population. The Higher Council of Health (SHC) will shortly give an opinion to the Interdepartmental Conference on this subject. In this context, it is important to be able to have a stock of vaccines that can guarantee optimal protection for all citizens. The provision of vaccines adapted to new variants will certainly be an asset. Clinical studies are under way in this regard. We are waiting for the results in August or September. Pending this opinion from the CSS, I would like to stress this: if there are people in the population who have a problem with immunity - people who are "immunocompromised", as they say - for example patients who have cancer and are undergoing oncological therapy, it is important that these patients check whether, yes or no, they have had a second booster. All immunocompromised patients were invited to receive a second booster. It's extremely important! What we are seeing today in hospitalizations is that many patients have a problem with immunity and, for those patients, the second booster is very important. I repeat that pending the opinion of the CSS, all those who have an immunity problem should really make an appointment to receive the second booster. Secondly, at the population level in general, you know that the European Medicines Agency has said that vaccines can be used as a second booster for the population over 80 years of age. There is therefore an agreement with the regional ministers responsible: the octogenaires can receive a second booster. Everyone has to think about it: it is a possibility and it is an additional protection. I'm saying that because even if we don't see a major wave, any covid infection is still a health problem. We know that some people have significant long-term consequences, so we must avoid being contaminated. Vaccination significantly reduces the risk of serious illness and hospitalization. To sum up, I asked Dirk Ramaekers to give me a full opinion by Thursday afternoon, on the basis of the work of the RAG and the RMG, on the epidemiological situation, and on the opinions to be given to our residents, given that we are indeed seeing an increase in the number of infections. I also expect an opinion from the Supreme Health Council on the vaccination scenarios that we have prepared. The question is, which vaccination scenario is the most plausible? In the meantime, I would like to recommend to the so-called immune compromised people, for example people undergoing cancer therapy, that they absolutely get their second booster. For those who have problems with their immunity and who have not yet received the second booster, this is absolutely necessary. I believe that the 80-plussers should also reflect on the usefulness of a second booster. In Flanders, the 80-plussers receive a letter. I recommend that those who receive such a letter should think carefully about its importance and respond to the invitation. Also in French-speaking Belgium 80-plussers can make an appointment to receive a second booster. Well, that's useful, isn't it? I hope to have a comprehensive opinion from the Covid Focal Point by Thursday afternoon. That is the body which succeeded the Coronac Commissariat, which is led by Professor Dirk Ramaekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u55	Thank you for this very comprehensive answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u56	Madam Chair, I will be brief enough, but the subject is important and we have all probably listened carefully to the minister's response. The arrival of the summer almost makes us forget that the virus unfortunately continues to circulate, which invites us to exercise the utmost caution. Minister, I thank you, in particular, for your clarification of immunocompromised persons. There is now a tendency to believe that the consequences of contamination are no longer as serious as before. However, the consequences can be disastrous for some people, including immunocompromised people, but also for older people. We must therefore remain cautious and continue to inform the citizens. There is also a question of anticipation. I have listened carefully to the information you have given us about the different scenarios that are on the table. In any event, we will continue to follow the matter with great attention, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u57	Questions Nos 55028656C by Mr Hervé Rigot and 55028755C by Mrs Catherine Fonck are postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Ms Sneppe's 55028659C, 55028660C and 55028668C are deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u58	Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions about dental hygienists in the past, but some things are still not quite clear to me. Recently, RIZIV informed that dental hygienists can request a RIZIV number. That seems to be a first step in the right direction. I wonder what the consequences of that are. What is the status of the nomenclature? When can we expect this? For which benefits in kind will sickness insurance be provided? Can you give an overview of the representation of dental hygienists in consultation and decision-making bodies? What does this representation look like? Where are the dental hygienists represented? Do they have the right to vote in these bodies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u59	Mrs Gijbels, I can tell you that the RIZIV services are currently working on the nomenclature for dental hygienists. The draft of KB has already been approved by the National Committee on Dental Hospital Funds on 19 May. A favourable opinion was delivered by the Committee on Budgetary Control on 25 May and the draft was adopted by the Insurance Committee on 30 May. Now it is submitted to different bodies outside the RIZIV. For the time being, compulsory medical care and benefits for certain benefits in kind are provided by dental hygienists, i.e. tartar removal and sealing. These benefits in kind may be delegated to a dental hygienist on prescription. As long as the dental hygienists do not have their own convention system, which allows tariff security to be provided to patients, benefits in kind will be charged to the dental health care insurance with which they cooperate. In reply to your second question, I must say that there is no official consultation and decision-making body within the RIZIV for dental hygienists, since they are not yet included in the law on compulsory medical care and benefits insurance. However, if the presence of dental hygienists is deemed necessary for subjects discussed in the National Committee on Dental Health, a representative of their professional organisation, the Belgian Professional Association of Mondhygiënists, is invited to participate as an expert. I am hopeful that it will move forward. I believe that we share that view, namely that it is important. I hope that during the autumn we will see this really put into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u60	Minister, it is indeed an important issue. It is important for general oral health that the dental hygienists can get to work quickly. It took them a long time to gain access to nomenclature. Hopefully it'll come in the fall. However, do not leave it with sealing and tartar removal. These are things that will not necessarily add value to the mouth care landscape. There should also be plenty of room for nutrition education, anti-tobacco advice and oral hygiene instructions that are much more extensive when taken care of by dental hygienists and can really add value to general oral health. Also make sure that dental hygienists are given the right to vote as soon as possible in the various bodies in which they are simply called upon to give advice so far. It is not enough to call on experts when it comes to their issues; they should be able to participate equally in the debate on nomenclature, technical benefits in kind and oral health in general. Hopefully this is not an end point but a starting point. Hopefully the dental hygienists will be able to be valued quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament 55028696C by Mrs Sneppe is without object. Debates of the European Parliament 55028698C by Mrs Merckx is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u62	Minister, you will not be surprised that our group, Ecolo-Green, is asking questions about the report on pesticide residues on fruit, which was published on 24 May. You will no doubt refer immediately to the report of the BFSA, which concludes that there are no health risks. But two things in particular concern me, firstly, the cocktail effect and secondly, the percentage of hormone-distorting substances found. A lot of research has already been done on the cocktail effect, but there have never been any real results. Today there is a consensus that ten should share with the standards on the cocktail effect if the precautionary principle is to be respected. I have not yet made that calculation with the data published by the BFSA last week. You are responsible for the standards, Minister Clarinval is responsible for the enforcement of those standards and food safety concerns. That is why, Minister, I wonder how you look at this investigation. Are you with us worried about the cocktail effect? Cyprodinil and tebuconazole were also found, substances known to have a hormone disrupting effect. In this context, the scientific community and the regulatory authorities have long warned against the phenomenon of non-monotone dose response, which means that there is no safe level of exposure. Minister, how do you reconcile the presence of these substances on fruit with the rules you are trying to establish in the NAPED? How do you handle that information? For example, will you set a maximum residue level, an MRL?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u63	(...) Currently, the risk to the consumer of pesticide residues in our food is generally still estimated for each active substance taken separately, taking into account the consumption of different foods and on the basis of conservative assumptions or estimates. For example, data from monitoring program measures show that residue levels are often low and well below maximum residue limits (MRLs). These MRLs are not safety standards but limit values under which residue levels will certainly remain if plant protection products are used in accordance with their authorisation. So we're talking about very broad safety margins. In order to be able to make a realistic assessment of the cumulative exposure of the consumer to pesticide residues via one or more foodstuffs and in order to be able to answer the coupled question of whether this leads to a higher cumulative risk, much more complex reflection is required. A methodology is being developed at EU level by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) for this purpose. First, it must be borne in mind that only substances that act on the same specific organ or physiological system of the human body can contribute to the same cumulative harmful effect. What is also essential is the concentration of each pesticide residue in one or more foodstuffs and the extent to which a consumer is actually exposed to residues in the so-called cocktail. The mere fact of detecting several pesticide residues in certain foodstuffs is therefore not in itself a reason to give in to panic - this is not what you are doing, Mrs Creemers - nor to be disproportionately worried, since this does not mean that it carries a higher risk to the consumer, even if, in a sense, this is a little suggested in the NAP Europe report. Legally speaking, there is also no limitation on the number of residues that can be present on a food, precisely because it is not a reliable indicator of risk to the consumer. The European methodology was already implemented in 2020 and 2021 by EFSA for an assessment of the cumulative risks of pesticide residues with a possible effect on the nervous system and possible long-term effects on the thyroid gland. This was achieved by means of the results of the monitoring of residues collected by several EU Member States, including Belgium, during the period 2014-2016. Based on this first cumulative risk assessment, there is no reason to worry. There is no need to adapt MRLs for individual substances or to adapt authorisations. In other words, the current knowledge of cumulative consumer exposure does not require further action. In the meantime, at European level, additional steps have been taken to also examine the cumulative effects on other organs, such as the abnormalities of the skull and face, the liver, the eyes, the adrenal gland and the reproductive tract. A methodology is being developed for, in addition to retrospective assessments (i.e. by examining actual exposure on the basis of the monitoring data collected in the past), also allowing forward-looking assessments (i.e. in the authorisation procedure, when extending the use of plant protection products, and increasing certain MRLs). In order to speed up the process, the European Commission, in collaboration with EFSA, has developed an action plan that will give priority to pesticides and bodies presenting the highest possible risk. Further information on this action plan and the status of the cumulative risk assessment of pesticide residues in general is available on the European Commission's website. Considering that research on the cumulative risk to consumers of residues of plant protection products in foods and the development of harmonised methodologies are mainly carried out in coordination at European level, i.e. the level at which EU MRLs are established, we await the outcome of this process before taking further initiatives. We will not hesitate to act quickly if it appears that there is a danger to public health. The future National Action Plan on Endocrine Disruptors (NAPED) aims to reduce the exposure of the Belgian population and the environment to identified and/or suspected endocrine disruptors. As far as pesticides are concerned, European legislation regulating plant protection products and biocides already includes endocrine disruptors. Thus, when a plant protection product or biocide is identified as an endocrine disruptor following its evaluation, it is prohibited to use it on the European market. For chemicals that have not yet been assessed but are suspected to be endocrine disruptors, some actions included in the National Action Plan on Endocrine Disruptors (NAPED) aim to promote their substitution by, for example, supporting local initiatives in partnership with regional and community authorities. Mrs Creemers, neither Cyprodinil nor Tebuconazole are currently identified as hormone disrupters by EFSA. An assessment framework was established in 2018 and scientific criteria were established to identify pesticides with hormone disrupting properties in a clear and scientifically sound manner. Both Tebuconazole and Cyprodinil are currently subject to a European assessment according to the methodology I have outlined. As long as there is no joint expert consultation, it is impossible to give a definitive ruling on the hormone-retardant nature of these substances. If, after an EU assessment, it appears that these or other substances have hormone-distorting properties, the use of these substances in plant protection products will be prohibited throughout the EU, including in Belgium. However, this does not automatically mean that residues in food imported from countries outside the EU will also be banned. The hormone-distorting nature of a substance does not exclude the possibility of inducing safe exposure threshold values, on the basis of which the risk of possible residues in foodstuffs for the consumer can be estimated. Only if it would no longer be possible, on the basis of the latest scientific knowledge, to establish safe exposure threshold values for a substance or if the estimated risk is unfavourable, will that presence of residues of that substance in nutrients no longer be tolerated. Regarding the phenomenon of a non-monotone dose response for which there would be no safe exposure level, the nature and extent of such non-monotone effects are still the subject of debate and controversy among scientists. There is currently no scientific consensus on this issue and the extent to which it plays a decisive role in the risk assessment. The current opinion of EU experts is that there is a monotonous dose response for pesticides.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u64	Thank you for the comprehensive answer, Minister. In itself, I am not surprised by so many things, but at the same time your answer does not remove my concern. The PAN Europe report to which I refer concerns the most harmful pesticides, which has already been decided in 2011 that Member States should phase them out and replace them. It's not just about the first harmless product. We look at that fundamentally differently. European legislation is like this and you have to defend it. However, as a conscious consumer and a concerned mom, I do not find it reassuring that the policy will remove the product from the market if it appears after ten years of study that there may be a problem with it. I am in favour of a reverse reasoning, whereby a product may be placed on the market if it turns out that it is safe after ten years of research. We will probably continue to discuss this issue ideologically. We'll keep an eye on it, too. There are a number of substances here that we should not tolerate. I know what studies and action plans you are referring to, but that too has been going on for a very long time. It causes us to expose an entire generation to products that we will regret in 20 years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree with what my colleague Barbara Creemers said. This refers to pesticides in the "candidates to substitution" category because they have been recognized as one of the most dangerous pesticides since 2011. Even if this issue is not directly within your prerogatives, Minister, it must be noted that Belgium has not done its duty, in accordance with Europe's request, and that it has not replaced the vast majority of these products. Therefore, residues of these products continue to be encountered. At present, there does not seem to be a real willingness at Belgian level to propose an exit from the market for these pesticides. In doing so, we are faced with too much residue. As you have confirmed, maximum residue standards are calculated by type of pesticides, and as you have said, we are still in the middle of a discussion at European level about the cocktail effects that are currently poor parents in the context of pesticide reflection. We strongly expect Europe to pay particular attention to these cocktail effects. But as it drags a bit, we hope that the Belgian health authorities will quickly address the issue. For now, we're still going too far blind. I therefore hope that your teams will provide the necessary resources to ensure the health of the population, which is, I know, your priority. Anyway, thank you for following up on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament 55028716C, 55028718C, 55028719C and 55028721C by Mrs Depoorter are postponed. Merged Questions 55028724C and 55028725C 55028833C) by Mrs Sneppe and interpellation No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Debates of the European Parliament 55028729C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed. Merged Questions No. 55028730C Debates of the European Parliament Interpellation No. Mrs Depoorter's 55000292I has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u67	Minister, there has been some media attention on this dossier too. Following the Zolgensma dossier in the Health Committee, the PVDA has submitted a legislative proposal to amend the legislation on compulsory licences. An opinion had been requested from the Knowledge Centre, which asked for nine months to deliver that advice. In the end, it has become a lot more months due to the covid crisis. Last week the long-awaited report of the Knowledge Centre came out with the title 'His compulsory licenses a solution for expensive medicines?'. Minister, I thought it would be interesting to discuss this with you. Firstly, it is important, of course, that the Knowledge Centre should make the same assessment as the PVDA, namely that the rising prices of innovative medicines put heavy pressure on our health systems. It also states in the summary that compulsory licences are a way of balancing the extensive protection offered by patents when they are out of balance. It states that they can be used in exceptional circumstances as part of a wider toolkit, which can help ensure the affordability of medicines in Belgium and that the mechanism can therefore be examined on a case-by-case basis. The PVDA is, of course, satisfied, because we have tabled the bill in order to apply it effectively in exceptional circumstances. The aim of our legislative proposal is to break the monopoly, so that a generic producer can be appointed to produce a medicinal product if an excessive price is set. It should be calculated whether or not this is an excessive profit. We would rather go to a generic producer who produces the medicine for a real production cost, and then a reasonable profit margin is charged. There are many examples to which this could theoretically be applied. The first example is, of course, Zolgensma, which is now being repaid at around EUR 2 million per syringe, although Test-Achat has lodged a complaint a few months ago stating that this price is excessive. Another example is Revlimid about which we have just spoken, a medicine whose price in the Netherlands is much lower. With us a pill cost 255 euros, in the Netherlands about 1 euros. Then we know that we have paid an excessive price for this medicine for years. Another example is the scandal about DCA, which is used for the rare metabolic disease CTX, where the application of the pharmaceutical legislation has quickly pushed the price down. In its report, the KCE makes a lot of recommendations for making use of compulsory licences. These can be used as a concrete instrument, but also as a stick behind the door. I would like to comment on Test-Achats and Come on against Cancer, who have responded to that study and who have called since they held a symposium on expensive cancer medicines to study the slope of compulsory licences. They propose to you, Minister, that we proceed with the KCE report and make it a useful tool that can be applied in practice. Mr Minister, my questions are quite general. Have you read this report from the KCE? What are your concerns? Are you going to work on the recommendations of this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u68	Mrs Merckx, you ask me if I am aware of this study. Yes, I am. It was this committee itself that instructed the KCE to carry out the study. I have been informed of the results and recommendations and I appreciate the contribution of national and foreign experts to the study. A legislative proposal amending the Code of Economic Law as regards the application of compulsory licences to medicinal products was submitted in August 2019. I am also aware of several amendments and the discussions in the Chamber on them. However, I must remind you that the recommendations of the KCE report are addressed both to me and to my colleague in the Economic Affairs Committee. You ask if my services have participated in the study. The answer is that the FAGG and the RIZIV have cooperated. Then you ask me how I feel about that. Well, I follow the decisions of the report and I say immediately that we should not get involved with compulsory licences in a legal context. The KCE report gives good clues not to end up at that stage. It is precisely the task of the working party to be set up, as described in the report, to prepare a legislative amendment which will give the Belgian Competition Authority the power to grant a compulsory licence. In addition, I consider the debate on excessive prices and their definition worth conducting. That discussion will also be complementary to the legal proposals of the working group I was just talking about. So I expect a lot from this report. The legal outcomes that are being drawn up will provide a better and clearer framework and greater security for the public authorities, and in fact they will also give industry greater clarity. In this connection, you referred to Kaftrio. I understand from your question that you yourself consider a compulsory licence for a generic product of Kaftrio to be a solution. I do not want to anticipate it, but given the high or even too high demand price for some mucovisciosis treatments, no d'office solution should be excluded. You ask me what I think of the excessive prices for orphan medicinal products. If an HTA assessment shows that the price of a medicinal product is excessive, it should be made clear to the holding and it should be based on a price reduction. I think that's necessary. Even if a contract is signed, we can't allow any list price. This leads to inflation of these prices and is unsustainable in the longer term, both as a benchmark for the pricing of new medicines and for a refund without a contract. You're asking me to stop secret contracts. These contracts are based on the principle of managed entry, with the aim of ensuring a controlled introduction into the reimbursement of new medicinal products or technologies with significant uncertainties. These contracts have been regularly highlighted in recent years and there has been a lot of controversy about them. The guiding principle that I want to use in this is that temporary compensation through contracts should be limited to cases where there are significant scientific and/or budgetary uncertainties. Dus as little as possible, as much as necessary. In 2017, the KCE published a report on the overall functioning of this system. The report also says that the child should not be thrown away with the bath water. Conventions can make innovative medicines available more quickly, which is a major benefit for the patient. However, the focus should not only be on speed, but above all on the benefit for the patient and on the sustainability of health insurance and the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u69	Mr Minister, so far I have heard little about all these secret contracts and the problems with price inflation as a result. I have also noted in written questions that you yourself have continued a whole series of contracts. That gave the impression that you continued Mrs De Block's policy. I remain cautious in the interpretation, but I do hear that the study of the Centre of Knowledge may lead you to change your mind. That is a good thing. You also say that you are going to do your job, if I understand correctly, of the working group proposed by the KCE to prepare a legislative amendment. That is positive news, and I hope that it will also be done in cooperation with the chamber committee where there is a legislative proposal. With regard to the high asking price for, for example, muco-drugs, getting started with compulsory licences is a different direction from always entering into secret contracts. We will certainly come back to this, also on a number of concrete cases. We have to work with two tracks. On the one hand, we need to adapt our legislation effectively and make compulsory licences a practical tool, and on the other hand, we need to put an end to the inflation of secret contracts. In fact, there one sees that one pays too much for a very long time. The initial idea of using these contracts only when there is uncertainty and when there is real innovation is often no longer applied. In the meantime, we are talking about 30% of our expenditure. We'll talk about it later. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u70	Madam President, Minister, the primary objective of the Health Care Staff Fund is to get more hands on the bed net. Pretty recent research by the Knowledge Centre shows that, in 2019, on average, one nurse was responsible for the care of 9.4 patients. This is well above the internationally accepted safe standard of 8 patients per nurse. Getting sufficient nurses to the beds is especially necessary to ensure the quality of care and the safety of care. You recently told me in response to a plenary question that 4,500 full-time equivalents have already been recruited by the Health Care Staff Fund. The KCE estimated that about 5,500 full-time equivalents are needed to achieve the safe standard of 8 patients per nurse. Minister, does the safe standard of one nurse per eight patients seem at hand at this time? When do you think you're gonna make it to that safe standard? Can you give a projection of the trajectory that still needs to be followed? What is the evolution of the nurse standard since 2010? How many effective FTEs have been added since the introduction of the Health Care Staff Fund? Can you give an overview by region and by province, if possible with a distinction according to whether university, non-university, public or private hospitals are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u71	Madam President, Mrs Gijbels, we know that the hospital sector is under enormous pressure. The staff is in fact still exhausted from over two years of pandemic. In a way, it is a vicious circle, which we have discussed before. Many employees fail, making the actual bestaffining problematic. That's why the pressure's high. What I am replying to here is therefore by no means intended to conceal this problem, let alone deny it. Purely statistically, it is a fact that the number of patients per nurse is decreasing. According to the study RN4CAST, the ratio of 11.4 patients per nurse decreased in 2009 to 9.4 patients per nurse in 2019. That is a clear improvement over that ten-year period. If we consider the Health Care Staff Fund, which came into action after 2019, then we have to assume that this ratio can still fall. We have also taken other measures. The social agreement provides for additional training and improved working conditions and wages. We hope that the whole range of measures can continue this trendally slow decline since 2009 in the ratio between patient and nurse and the improvement of the framework. You asked about the evolution of the nurse standard since 2010. Between 2010 and 1 July 2014, at the level of the legal framework standards, the standards of the services psychogeriatry and geriatrics were raised. However, as you know, adapting the recognition standards since the sixth state reform has been the competence of the Länder. Your question about these standards should therefore be put to the Länder. I can add, however, that the bestaffining standards have not changed after the transfer of powers. Furthermore, since 2010, the social agreements have also allowed additional staff to be financed in hospitals, additional night care professionals, logistical and administrative support staff for nursing staff. You asked how many FTEs were added and asked for a breakdown of the statistics. The evaluation report sent to the Chamber in July 2021 shows that 4,250 full-time units were added in 2020. I have an overview, but I think I should give it to you so that you have the details, Mrs Gijbels, also taking into account the report of this sitting. After all, reading that overview, a table, is pointless.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u72	Thank you, Minister. You indicate that the standard has been improving over the last 10 years. There are exact data on it. It is about a decrease from 11.4 to 9.4 in 2019, which is an improvement. You will then say that the Health Care Staff Fund needs to reduce this further. Isn't there a real sight of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u73	The Health Care Staff Fund is legislation established in the Chamber. So if you think that reporting needs to be improved, you should change the legislation here in the Chamber. I would like to take the initiative myself if necessary. The law on the Health Care Staff Fund is therefore in the hands of the Chamber. That reporting problem is present. I also think it is a problem that reporting comes with a large interval of time. I would like to take the initiative to improve this, but it is something that is linked to the law on the Health Care Staff Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u74	I do think it's a problem. If we are to spend such amounts, we must have a clear view of what they are being used for and whether they serve the purpose for which they have been created. I therefore agree with you that reporting should be faster, more precise and better done. We will see if there are any colleagues left to adapt to that. However, I find it difficult to understand that it is not clear that there is better reporting. There are many reports and I do not understand why this requires a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u75	Minister, the reason for this question is the flood of water in Wallonia last summer, particularly in the province of Liège. About 31,000 households, up to 100,000 people, have been affected. A study of AViQ shows that the incidence of COVID-19 is 30% higher in affected households and that other infectious diseases are also more common in the flooded areas. These include leptospirosis, legionellosis and infections with Escherichia coli, which increases morbidity in these regions. This study also shows that there was poor communication between the actors involved in the crisis context. The general practitioners were overloaded and were not sufficiently prepared for the aftermath of this crisis. Their participation in the national surveillance network was low and the ICT environment for digital reporting was not foreseen. What lessons were learned from this disaster? Can you take action to improve communication between the actors involved? Has there been a debriefing from the federal health inspector involved? What is the conclusion? How will it be ensured that the general practitioners are better sensitised? How will you improve ICT issues, as far as you are competent? Can you give a final assessment of the health impact of these infectious diseases? What data are collected and how are they benchmarked, for example vis-à-vis other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u76	Mrs Gijbels, first of all I would like to say that, even in the federal phase of a crisis, federal powers are defined and even limited. The organisation of the first line, prevention and preventive medicine, as well as the follow-up of infectious diseases, are state powers. I cannot therefore answer the majority of your questions, since they do not fall within my competence. During a crisis, both in an individual crisis and in a federal crisis situation, the federal government is responsible for the organisation of acute medical and psychosocial assistance, but with a view to a smooth transaction into the post-care phase, it will also contact the Länder very quickly. A detailed report of the acute phase, the period of the federal phase and the period of the federal support cell was prepared by both the federal health inspectors and the psychosocial managers. These reports are the input of medical-psychosocial discipline into the different structures that are still active today in the evaluation of this crisis. As far as your questions are concerned, I can tell you what actions were taken during the acute phase, actions which some people believe are already well outside federal jurisdiction. I thank my administration and the federal health inspectors and psychosocial managers for their approach during the acute phase. This approach has put aid to citizens at the heart of the matter. Some initiatives may indeed have coloured outside of our political lines. Firstly, prevention. An extensive text brochure of 59 pages on the sanitary measures to be taken after floods has been shared with the Infocel of the National Crisis Centre. This text, written by the federal health inspector Dr. Haenen, deals with a very wide range of very practical elements. It is about which foods to destroy, which can still be used after cleaning the can, how household appliances, furniture or toys should be cleaned after a flood, how to deal with carcasses and so on. Secondly, with regard to the covid crisis, an inventory of the impact of the floods on the vaccination and testing centres was made very quickly, and the launch of the impacted centres was launched. Thirdly, with regard to primary health care, in the hardest affected areas, areas where the pharmacists' officials or the consultation rooms of general practitioners or home nurses had become unusable, were placed on the initiative of the federal health inspectors and by the governor's recovery containers. These sites would then be expanded to include, although rudimentary district health centres. Finally, as far as psychosocial care is concerned, while the classical Psychosocial Intervention Plan provides for the organisation of meetings and information meetings for the affected, it was very quickly apparent that the affected population had other things to deal with than to come to a meeting or an information meeting. It was therefore decided to offer the psychosocial shelter via mobile binomists, groups of two psychosocial workers who went out on the streets and went door-to-door to measure the needs of the population and provide help. Those are the initiatives launched from the federal level. My services and the people on the ground really did their best to do that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u77	Minister, our state structure is not making it any easier. When a federal phase is proclaimed when a health crisis occurs, the debriefings are important. Lessons need to be learned and we need to look at what happened and how we can better prepare for next time. With regard to infectious diseases, if I am not mistaken, Sciensano has the role to play in identifying this. I have not heard any more about this, but I will see if an additional question can be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u78	Mr Minister, it has recently been announced that the RIZIV working group to examine a framework for long covid patients has reached agreement on reimbursement conditions. No definitive diagnostic criteria have yet been laid down, but they are expected later. However, a list of symptoms was put forward to help general practitioners with a possible diagnosis. In view of the complexity of pathology, patients can rely on different care providers and, if necessary, a care coordinator is assigned if a multidisciplinary pathway is initiated. That trajectory can be proposed 12 weeks after the first symptoms or a positive test. The cost picture is estimated at more than 7 million euros. There would also be a second part more focused on the second line and centres of expertise in the pipeline. The diagnostic criteria that are now being put forward are rather broad and open to interpretation. How will it be ensured that the budget reaches the right group of people? In what way will the distinction be made with, for example, CVS or fibromyalgia, with which I do not, of course, mean that there is no need to pay attention to people with these diseases? Will work be done on data collection by healthcare providers facing patients with long covid? Are those data analysed and, if so, by whom? Are there also international data collected and compared to our data? How do you see the role of the care coordinator? What profile does this care coordinator have? How will he be reimbursed and are there already healthcare coordinators available at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u79	Mrs Gijbels, the problem is that at the moment there is only a limited scientific evidence that is unambiguous about what exactly post-covid is as a condition. This means that there are no real, clear diagnostic criteria yet either, but directives are now being drawn up in the context of evidence-based practice. Once there are, they will also be used as part of the reimbursement. We believe that informing and training general practitioners and other care providers about post-covid will also contribute to the correct diagnosis and treatment of a post-covid patient. In accordance with his medical deontology, a GP also leaves with the best available knowledge and will act in the best way. Finally, we can, of course, also carry out checks to evaluate the care path using the pseudo-codes that were attested. The aim is to evaluate the whole story after six months and, where necessary, adjust it. Precisely because pseudocodes have been added, the health insurance funds can check how many patients are affected, what treatments patients receive and the frequency of treatment. A further detailing of the analysis is now being developed in consultation with, among others, Cebam, the Belgian Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine. At present, there is no knowledge of the international collection and analysis of such data. The role of care coordinator is reserved for a care provider on the patient team. I assume that the general practitioner often takes on this task. But it can also be a physiotherapist, a logopedist, a psychologist, a dietician or an ergotherapist. The general practitioner may delegate tasks in the general practitioner's practice. The care coordinator is responsible for the organisation, administration, coordination and communication between the various care providers and the patient, but also for supporting the patient and monitoring that the patient is adequately listened to. The care coordinator shall be reimbursed for this. For a period of six months, at least two consultations should be held with the care providers and patients, and up to three.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u80	The attention and resources for patients with long covid are justified. But my concern and fear is that people suffering from other conditions, such as CVS and phybromyalgia, will be confused with lung covid patients or that they will receive less attention. Attention must continue to be paid so that research can also be carried out and the exact cause of their disease is found out. Another concern concerns the care coordinator. This task can be completed by several care providers. I just hope it doesn't get too noncommittal. They should be asked to collect data so that they can be analysed again. Data collection, analysis and consultation between healthcare providers across Belgium is the only way to get a clear picture of the condition and its treatment. Hopefully that will be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u81	Sciensano, the scientific institute that was founded in 2018 following a merger between two other research institutions, has gained some awareness since the covid pandemic. Apparently for some time now there has been the idea to house it in a new building on the Erasmus campus in Anderlecht. The annual reports show that this plan has been postponed several times until 2022. We are now getting signals that the cost of new construction will increase to more than EUR 130 million and that the project will be postponed again. Is it indeed intended to provide for new construction or is it rather a move to a suitable building? Are there any plans and can they be looked at? Where is Sciensano currently housed? Are their services centralised or scattered across different buildings? Why does a new building need to be built? What should the building meet and what functions and facilities should be provided? What budget will be made available for the building? How much is budgeted and is there a detailed budget available? When can we expect more news about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u82	Currently, Sciensano is located on eight sites, spread over five municipalities and two regions. That's a lot of them. In November 2009, the Council of Ministers had already adopted a plan to bring together the services of the predecessors of Sciensano. It was already clear at that time that the predecessors of Sciensano needed modern facilities, mainly specialized facilities such as laboratories, brought together on a site. This must be a site which complies with the necessary bio-safety and safety requirements and has the necessary characteristics for carrying out scientific activities and thus statutory tasks, with the required quality level. On the other hand, there must be facilities that offer a economies of scale and allow for greater efficiency. In the current situation, this is not possible, because the facilities are so scattered and, moreover, obsolete. This problem has become even more acute since 2009, as very little has been invested, precisely because of the prospect of a relocation, which would bring the activities into new buildings in the near future. Sciensano needs specific high-tech facilities to carry out its tasks. In particular, they are laboratories for molecular biology, chemistry and microbiology, including high bio-safety laboratories and high containment animal quarters. Of course, all scientific activities that do not require a laboratory, as well as all support services, must also meet specific requirements. In 2014, the Council of Ministers approved a grouping of all Sciensano's services on one site, Erasmus. This followed the disaffection of the Verrewinkel, Wytsmanstraat and Groeselenberg sites and their subsequent valorisation, and the launch of a negotiated procedure with publication, both for the study and for the work and thus in the form of a design & build assignment, for the construction of the future buildings on the Erasmus-Zuid site. It is still our intention to create a new building for Sciensano in that place. However, the negotiated procedure with publication design & build, launched in 2016, was not successful. So there are no plans available. In 2015, the Council of Ministers decided to grant an additional commitment loan of EUR 84 million to the Buildings Regie. This loan had to be covered by the proceeds of an additional sale to finance the group of Sciensano's services. However, it has been found that the credit was not sufficient to meet the necessary needs. In September 2021, an additional budget of EUR 47 million was requested for the implementation of the project. The budgets needed for the implementation of the project today are not available. It is therefore decided to investigate whether a DBFM construction, i.e. a construction of design, build, finance & maintain, is possible. Unfortunately, I cannot clarify a possible timeline; I am certainly following the dossier very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u83	The importance of an institute like Sciensano cannot be overestimated. During the covid crisis, it became clear to all of us that the institute provides data on which the policy is based. A future plan for Sciensano is really needed, so the employees know where to work. For example, targeted and efficient investment can be made and communication between the various departments and departments, which we have heard in many cases has been problematic, can be improved. Moreover, we hope that our know-how can also be guaranteed and secured. I do not think that investing in older buildings because people no longer know what is going on is the way we should go. I'll keep following up on the case and keep inquiring about the plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u84	Minister, the bill was recently adopted to reduce the waiting period for blood donation from 12 months to 4 months for men who have sexual relations with men. As you may know, several opinions were sought under this bill, in particular Red Cross Flanders and the Royal Academy of Medicine expressed reservations about the shortening of the waiting period. In order to reduce the waiting time from 12 months to 4 months, a number of additional accompanying measures should be taken. For example, think of more explicit and longer questionnaires for the intake interview, provision of spaces where sufficient privacy is guaranteed and training for physicians who have to do this intake, which is more delicate and difficult, in order to make a good risk assessment with as little interoperator variation as possible. Red Cross Flanders fears that these accompanying measures will jeopardise mobile collections. The additional costs for these accompanying measures are estimated at EUR 125 million per year. There is also the possibility that the fixed pool will reduce voluntary blood donors when organisational changes occur. Minister, how will you provide for this budget? At which posts will you save? What if the modified methodology or the higher price jeopardises the blood supply? What preventive measures will be taken to prevent this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u85	Mr Minister, I will not go back to the legislative context referred to by my colleague Gijbels. On the other hand, I must insist on the discriminatory nature of maintaining the period of sexual abstinence, which is required only against men who have sex with other men. Indeed, this is based solely on their sexual orientation, not on actual risk behaviours. This exclusion is also incomprehensible, given the shortage of blood in our country. In addition, it does not take into account alternatives. In this respect, I must recall what I have already told my colleagues - but not enough, it seems to me - in our debates. Indeed, for four of the eight experts of the Higher Council of Health, removing the HSH criterion must be possible in the short term, subject to consultation with industry stakeholders and the necessary adaptation of the questionnaires and pre-donation interviews. According to them, these measures guarantee a high level of safety in the transfusion chain. Moreover, all countries that have lifted the temporary exclusion of HSH from blood donation have accompanied the end of this exclusion from preventive measures. This is the case for the United Kingdom, which has thoroughly reformed its pre-donation questionnaire. Furthermore, as my colleague pointed out, if the Red Cross opposed the removal of the deadline for abstinence in its opinion, this is not for scientific reasons but for budgetary reasons, since the opinion states that these additional measures would have an excessive additional budget cost of around EUR 50 million. As a result, Minister, have you considered alternatives to the temporary exclusion of HSH from blood donation? If so, what conclusions do you draw? Have you already measured the financial cost of such measures, as well as their added value, especially with regard to the quality of transfused blood and the shortage of blood? Do you intend to release a corresponding "short-term" budget, as advocated by the four experts who voted on the issue? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u86	Madam President, before I give my answer, which is relatively short, I would like to say that I still have a question from Mrs Gijbels about Sciensano. I'll take a look around the hall. I also have a question from Mr Creyelman on patient mobility. However, I would like to begin by concluding. Can we agree that the answer to question No. 5502828784C from Mr Creyelman is the last answer for today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u87	Minister, that's good for me. I do not know whether Mr Prévot is coming or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u88	Madam President, I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council: Mr Prévot's 55028765C is still there if he comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u89	We certainly tried to warn him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u90	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, Mrs Rohonyi, I shall return to the blood donation. I do not need to remind you that, after a lot of discussion, a bill has been passed here, with the delay in blood donation for MSM donors reduced from 12 months to 4 months. The law will come into force in a year, which will give us some time to think. That's good, too. I have certainly taken note of all the comments made by the Red Cross Flanders regarding the accompanying measures they consider necessary. I don't want to anticipate that. Mrs Rohonyi, I hope you understand that I do not want to go ahead with what will be the conclusion of the consultation I will have with the Red Cross, particularly Rode Kruis Vaanderen. The consultations with them have begun. I will also seek additional advice if this would prove necessary following consultation. I will draw all the conclusions from this with regard to what is practically necessary to implement this legislative amendment in a proper, correct and safe way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u91	Your answer was disturbingly short, Minister. You say you have another year, but no budget is foreseen. You don't know where you're gonna get it either. Hopefully, the impact on the voluntary donor population will be monitored very well and closely. As the main collection centre, the Red Cross receives the necessary guidance in drawing up the questionnaire. It has to be tested for a long time. Interoperator variability should also be checked. It should be as small as possible when complex and delicate questionnaires are taken. I'm holding my heart a little bit. I would have liked to have had some patience to pass this law. A number of projects already run abroad with a reduction or even abolition of the deadline. We should have waited for more clarity about the risks, so that it was all affordable and could be better assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u92	Thank you, Minister, even if I confess to being extremely disappointed by your answer. My question was very simple. It was about whether your government intended to release a budget to fund alternative and preventive measures that would allow us to end a discriminatory situation, as many countries have done that have made this choice responsibly, based on expert advice, studies, etc. Instead, your silence actually means a negative response, which I find quite violent. Of course, you are going to initiate – you have not even done so yet – a consultation, you may, if necessary, ask for opinions; but what more do you expect from these opinions, than the set of scientific answers that we already have today? In addition, you do not give us any indication as to when you will get more information. The parties of La Vivaldi had a bit of a kick in our parliamentary debates, saying that we should not worry. "This is a legislative step forward. We could go further and put an end to this discrimination in one, two or three years, when we have the scientific data." But we don't even know what scientific data you're waiting for and you're going to seek from the various actors you've cited. We laughed at the first concerned, who are responsible, who want to give their blood and allow us to find a solution and reduce this problem of blood shortage. I think it is dramatic because discrimination is maintained, not for scientific reasons, as was said too much during these debates, and even today, but for financial and logistical reasons. This exclusion from the donation of blood also has a cost, a social cost, a human cost, which is aggravated every day, and which is no longer justified today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u93	Minister, this question covers two shutters. The first concerns the Court of Auditors' report on the accounting of Sciensano. That report was devastating. This resulted in a plan of action. At the time, you told me that you would follow this closely. A second part concerns the questions that citizens put to Sciensano and which remained largely unanswered in the course of the covid crisis, because Sciensano indicated that he was unable to answer all these questions. What is the status of the accounting path to be followed? Can you give the elements of the plan of approach? It was indicated that there would be a shortage of staff. Can you tell me what's going on in there? Is there also a capacity that can be scaled up and scaled up depending on whether or not there is a health crisis? Are framework contracts with universities, for example, also being considered, so that they can be scaled up when needed? Let's talk about the second hatch. How many questions came in from citizens in the course of the covid crisis? How many questions were answered, not just with an acknowledgement of receipt but substantively relevant and sufficient? What deadline did that happen? How does that compare to previous years? Were measures taken to answer the increased number of questions? Which one? Is there a complaint register being kept? If so, can this be consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u94	Mrs Gijbels, first of all I would like to give an update on the route related to accounting. In 2022 additional staff were recruited due to complexity and workload. Mid-term checks, monthly or bimonthly, shall be carried out on the accuracy of the figures. Improvement points are addressed in consultation with the Court of Auditors. An internal control cell is set up in the Finance Directorate, which will monitor the correct use of procedures and the accuracy of the figures. In consultation with the FOD BOSA, the procedures are reviewed to ensure that Sciensano correctly interprets and follows the rules. Training is provided for staff, including through FOD BOSA. AB Costing's project was launched. This is a complete analytical accounting, allowing the revenue and expenditure to be allocated in full detail to the various activities. The implementation of this project AB Costing is planned for the second half of 2022, in order to be able to go live from January 2023. As for your questions about the staff shortage, in January 2020, Sciensano identified a deficit of 110 staff to be able to carry out the daily activities. It is therefore independent of the activities that were added during the crisis period. In order to meet this challenge, Sciensano has been able to recruit 45 structural staff through the core budget, in particular in order to be able to deal with the COVID-19 crisis and the additional work it brought with it. The department of Epidemiology of infectious diseases within the scientific board of Epidemiology and Public Health has had to make the most use of these recruitments, of course due to the impact of COVID-19. In addition to these core recruitments, Sciensano also had to recruit temporary staff for several covid projects at the request of several partners to contribute to the management of the covid crisis. Sciensano has, among other things, a culture of cooperation with universities in the context of various P&D projects and other types of scientific activities. A large part of the projects linked to the covid crisis were also carried out in cooperation with several universities. On 14 June 2021, the strategic cooperation agreement was also signed by Sciensano and all Belgian universities, represented by VLIR and CRef. They have been partners for years and are committed to working closely together and strengthening their partnership to contribute to a healthier society through state-of-the-art research. The partners agree on the common objective of this agreement: to promote the quality of health by joining forces in high-level data-driven research. In addition, contracts were concluded with universities for covid activities, such as modelling, and their role will be allocated to universities in future in the context of surveillance. You asked how many questions citizens had received during the covid crisis and how many were answered. Since the start of the covid crisis, many questions and complaints have been received about COOVID-19. For many of them, Sciensano itself is not competent to reply to them. The questions and complaints reach them via the general telephone number of Sciensano, the general address of Sciensano, the complaint form on the website of Sciensano, the e-mail address dpo@sciensano.be, which is handled by the data protection officers, the e-mail addresses comm@sciensano.be and press@sciensano.be, handled by the communication service, the e-mail address legal@sciensano.be, handled by the lawyers, and of course also the individual addresses of employees who are closely involved in the crisis. These questions were about the calculation of the covid figures, the measures, the procedures, the Coronalert app, the CovidSafe app, the safety and usefulness of vaccination, the vaccination strategy, the personal vaccination status, the test method, the test results, test and recovery certificates, vaccination certificates and foreign travel. Usually it was about questions about people's personal situation. Of course, that brings with it an enormous workload. Since the beginning of the pandemic, besides numerous e-mails and telephone calls, they have received 382 questions via the complaint form. In normal circumstances, Sciensano receives relatively few complaints. For example, in 2019 there were 13 official complaints. In 2020 there were 12 complaints that were non-covid related. In 2021, there were 18 complaints that were non-covid related. So this is an enormous number. In fact, it can be said that it is 25 times more than normal, if you do not yet count the phone calls and mails. I can also give you a detail of the parliamentary questions. 900 questions were asked between March 2020 and 15 June 2022 and 800 questions were answered. I can give you the details in writing. What have we done to answer the increased number of questions? Where possible, a standard response was used, which of course was regularly adapted. For specific questions which cannot be answered by the standard answer and which call for public administration, the Legal Service was consulted prior to the answer or the question was answered by the Legal Service. For specific questions that cannot be answered with the standard answer and which relate to open dates, the DPO was usually consulted prior to the answer or the question was answered by the DPO. In the case of a request for data, the procedure available on the website must be followed by the applicant and the registration shall be made through that channel. For specific questions on COVID-19 dates or procedures, published by Sciensano, which cannot be answered with a standard answer, the crisis team Epidemiology will be consulted prior to the answer or the question will be answered by the staff of the crisis team. One complaint form was drawn up to cover all complaints relating to COVID-19. All complaints relating to the COVID-19 crisis, received via the website or otherwise, will not be recorded separately. Each complaint shall be answered, where possible by means of a standard reply. Questions or complaints that are rudely formulated will not be dealt with. Questions or complaints involving a threat shall be notified to the police through the legal service. All external emails and the responses to those emails are stored in the respective mailboxes. A request may be sought at any time. Is a complaint register kept and, if so, where can it be consulted? Sciensano has a complaint registration system that complies with good practices in complaint handling. Admissible complaints are registered, handled and archived in accordance with the procedure of complaint handling.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. With regard to accounting, I understand that there is some work to be done to correct this situation, when I hear who is all involved in follow-up, additional training and so on. It is about public resources, and I think that this needs to be handled with caution. That's similar to what we just discussed about the Health Care Staff Fund. I think it is obvious that there is feedback, that there is full transparency and that there is accuracy when it comes to public funds. As far as cooperation with universities is concerned, you say that a culture of cooperation is being developed. That seems very good to me, because in the covid crisis we noticed that universities often had difficulty obtaining data. The universities were ready to help with analyses and to make models, but this could only be done very slowly. For Sciensano it was quite an assignment to see what could or could not be done. In this sense, I believe that a clear framework is important for the future, so that it can be scaled up very quickly, so that data can be shared in a secure way, with guarantees of data confidentiality, of course, even in times of crisis. The lessons we have learned from this need to be well anchored for the future. I have not been given any clarity on the questions raised by citizens. I have the impression that it wasn't handled with such care. You said there were a lot of questions asked, but I didn't hear a number. I find it odd that all the questions weren't logged. This is a public institution financed by taxpayers' money. Transparency is therefore appropriate, especially as there has been a certain distrust of science and of Sciensano during the crisis, which I deeply regret. Due to the lack of transparency, by not communicating openly and not answering questions immediately, suspicions are made easier. This is damaging in the face of a health crisis in which the public authorities must be able to gain the full confidence of citizens. I hope this workpoint will be remediated. Its importance should not be underestimated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u96	Question No 55028765C by Mr Patrick Prévot is postponed at the author's request. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 55028766C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u97	Madam President, Mr Creyelman, in reply to your first question, I can tell you that the Observatory for Patient Mobility, established within the Public Health and RIZIV Office, still exists. However, it is not active at the moment. The Observatory has met effectively one last time in spring 2017. This is also why the operational reports only cover the period 2011-2016. In the course of its work, the Observatory has worked, inter alia, on the optimisation of existing registration systems, such as the minimum hospital data, with the aim of providing as accurate and comprehensive information as possible on the influx of foreign patients into Belgian hospitals. To this end, a new classification of the various categories of patients within Belgian hospitals was also developed, in order to clarify how these different types of patients are related to the different modalities of funding. On the basis of the available registration systems, the Data and Policy Information Service of the FPS Public Health has the opportunity to draw up reports that map the influx of foreign patients into Belgian hospitals. In addition, an exercise was also undertaken within the Observatory on the monitoring of waiting times for certain interventions and technical performances, including medical imaging, in the hospital environment. At present, there are no indications that the influx of foreign patients leads to an increase in waiting times for Belgian patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic825x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. All my questions have been answered. However, we must keep an eye on the evolution of foreign patients in our hospitals, for example, because they may be subject to some change. That is why it does not seem uninteresting to me to keep an eye on things in the future.
