ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u1	Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament for this opportunity to organise a dialogue between the government and Parliament at this important time. Since my communication to Parliament last Thursday, a lot of things have happened and the government has taken various decisions. It is therefore a good thing that we are now engaged in a dialogue on the evolution of the situation, the decisions taken and our international contacts. Yesterday, in the nuclear cabinet, we discussed the military situation, the economic impact and the refugee issue. Then, together with the King, we also received a detailed briefing from the General Staff of Defense. The speaking time will be allocated among the various members of the government, to the number of five. Indeed, we are part of a fairly broad pattern of decisions. I would still like to go back to the events in Ukraine and Belgium. The war images we've all seen are heartbreaking. It is blind violence, terrible destruction, aggression against an innocent, free country and on a path of democracy. I hope that I share this view with everyone here in this Chamber: this aggression must cease and a call must be made as soon as possible for a ceasefire and an end to the aggression. We have also been able to observe at the international level a very impressive reaction from the free world, which is united in rejecting what is happening in Ukraine and also united in relation to the response given and the sanctions taken. Clearly, we are seeing a fundamental change in Europe and probably in the world in a number of areas. Of course, Europe was already moving towards a more sovereign economic strategy. But the current situation fundamentally changes our thinking about security, military and energy strategy. The situation started a turn at 180°. We live in a different Europe. What is happening today will have a profound impact on how Europe organises itself. Today Europe is hard geopolitics. The word geopolitics often sounds like a far-from-my-bed show. But today we are talking about our security, about our way of life and how we can secure it in a free democracy. It is also a fundamental discussion about who our partners are. Who are our partners who help us to secure our way of life, and above all, who are our partners absolutely not? I believe that our country can play a very important role in taking the lead in this and organizing it. In just a few days, the European Union has expressed its small power, as well as its hard power. If we look at recent decisions, this completely new package of sanctions – the closure of airspace, the delivery of arms, the personal sanctions against President Putin and Lavrov, the blocking of almost the entire Russian war treasury – reflects the radical measures for which our country had advocated. You have probably seen that, at the various international meetings in which the European Union and NATO participated, we have translated the opinion of Parliament. Last Thursday, you asked for the use of weight sanctions, testifying to our determination. I think that Europe has shown itself to be fast and united in the decisions that have been taken. I have had a great deal of contact with my European colleagues over the last few days, and I have noticed, above all, that consensus. At the European Council last Thursday we had the opportunity to hear President Zelenski directly. We hear a huge expectation of the European Union there, in what way we can support them. During this weekend, yesterday and the day before yesterday, as I said, I had a lot of bilateral contacts with the President of the European Council, with my Benelux colleagues, but also, for example, with heads of government from Scandinavian countries. In Finland and Sweden, there is a significant strategic change. I have also been in contact with my colleague, Mr Iohannis, the President of Romania. As you know, our country will actively participate in the activation of the NATO Response Force and the Very High Readiness Jointtask Force. The Minister of Defence will give you more details. On Thursday and Friday, a European Council was planned in Paris. The purpose of this informal Council was the 2030 growth agenda and the transition agenda. Given the current situation, it is logical that the discussion on the European strategy should focus on certain areas, such as energy, security and defence, among others. It is clear that these issues will occupy a more important place on the agenda. Meanwhile, Ukraine's demand is also on the table to become an accelerated member of the European Union. For me, it is crystal clear that Ukraine is a member of the European family, just as a number of other countries are members of the European family without being a member of the European Union. It is clear that Ukraine is looking to the West. It looks towards the 27 countries that today show what they stand for: for stability, for freedom, for solidarity. Moreover, Ukraine is not the only country looking in our direction. However, we must also be clear that membership represents a very different level of obligations: legal obligations, economic legislation, anti-corruption efforts and compliance with the rules of the internal market. It is clear that full membership is not on the agenda today. Moreover, if we want Ukraine to stop the war as soon as possible, if we want to help and build a partnership, such a partnership must be absolutely a priority. We must be able to do so quickly, while the accession process is far too slow to be able to help in a decisive way. We need to think about how we will do that. The European Union has so far had the Eastern Partnership system in which we have a relationship with countries in that region. However, the geopolitical framework has changed fundamentally and we must accept Ukraine's outstretched hand and a number of other countries in a different way from what we have done so far. I therefore call for the organisation of an enhanced partnership with Ukraine and other countries, but in my view that is quite different from EU membership. Those who thought Europe would be played apart have seen the opposite in recent days. They have seen a Europe that is closer to each other than ever before. Anyone who thought NATO would be overtaken by events has also seen the opposite: it has been shown that NATO's importance is greater than ever and a number of countries are getting a lot closer to NATO than in the past. I would like to stress once again that the Russian people are not opposed to this conflict. We also see, of course, that there are divided opinions in Russia about the conflict. To be honest, I cannot believe that it is the will of the Russian people to write a black page in history. I would therefore also like to pay tribute to those who make a dissident voice and make their horrors heard in relation to what is happening in Europe today. Economic sanctions are, of course, in full effect. We can see the impact of that. Today, we don't have any details of what might be counter-sanctions. We are working with the government to prepare ourselves for this and to look at what measures would be needed. I will also have a meeting with the Prime Ministers tonight. Indeed, a very large part of the impact relates to their powers. We need to look at how we can work out the best possible integrated response together. Our country is also making a great deal of efforts in the field of humanitarian aid. I will give Minister Kitir the opportunity to discuss this further. I would also like to comment on cyber security. The CCB, the Cybersecurity Centre, sent out a public warning on the first day of the conflict to be vigilant in the field of the basic principles of correct cyber resilience, namely the control of security updates, cyber-emergency plans, contact lists, back-ups. It is clear that a very high level of vigilance is needed. The CCB has been in a very high state of preparedness over our critical infrastructure for weeks. I have also seen a very warm response of solidarity in our country - Secretary of State Mahdi will go into more detail - to the hundreds of thousands or perhaps even millions of people who have to leave their lives. I am particularly proud of the warmth shown in our country. I want to thank the Defence and all the people who work there. In recent years, the Defence has been asked a lot, at several times, at unusual times, and it is clear that what is happening here is also an unusual time. I would really like to thank you for all the efforts that have been made and all the efforts that will be made by Defence to try, as best as possible, to play a role that is important for our security, but also a role as a society. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we were indeed able to address the situation in Ukraine in plenary last week, as well as in the topical debates in committee on 26 January and 1 February. That's the thread we're going to keep following. Since then, it has been known that this conflict has caused too much loss of life. Conflicts continue as I speak to you. The images of Ukrainian citizens in great pain and the hundreds of thousands of civilians thrown on the way to exile affect us all. I would therefore like - and I think you will do so as well - to commend the exceptional courage shown by the Ukrainian people and their authorities. Their determination to fight for their freedom reminds us of how precious it is and, in this struggle, the effective and concrete support of the international community is, I think, also indispensable. Belgium, together with its European and international partners, has condemned Russia's aggression against Ukraine in the strongest terms. We have called for an immediate cessation of hostilities and for the return of Russian and Belarusian troops within their borders. Our country is engaged in intensive consultations at European and international level to exert maximum pressure on Russia and Belarus to stop their action in Ukraine. Beyond Friday, I spoke to my Ukrainian colleague Dmytro Kuleba to assure him of the support of Belgium, our solidarity with the suffering Ukrainian people and our willingness to explore our opportunities to meet the needs of his country. On this subject, I must tell you that both the Prime Minister who spoke with President Zelensky and my European colleagues and myself, who had the opportunity to speak with Dmytro Kuleba, the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, whether at European level or live, in one one, we have seen the determination, strength and coolness that they are showing. Dmytro Kuleba was trying to get back on the road to Kiev, while he was safe, to be present for the Ukrainian people. He was obviously very worried about his family, as is the case with all Ukrainians today. These are moments we can't forget. First of all, I would like to address the current situation on the basis of the elements at my disposal at the moment, before dealing with the European, international and Belgian response to this major crisis. The situation is constantly evolving since the brutal attack of February 24th. The battle for control of Kiev continues. Since Friday, the capital has been holding. In Charkov, the second largest city in the country, the fights increase in intensity. The situation is becoming increasingly difficult, including in other parts of the country. The bombings were staged yesterday and last night. Due to the massive arrival of troops surrounding Kiev, the fear of the civilian population in the capital is very great. The loss of life at this stage is very difficult to put a number on because of the disinformation war, which is also going on. There are fierce fighting throughout the country, driving hundreds of thousands of refugees to Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Moldova and Romania. Emergency reception structures are being set up there. On 1 March, according to estimates by the United Nations, 660,000 people were displaced. On Monday 28 February a first meeting took place between a Russian delegation and a Ukrainian delegation on the border with Belarus to negotiate a way out of the conflict. The negotiations lasted five hours without allowing an advance and as the bombings resumed more intensely over the city of Kharkiv. Ukraine's objective is to achieve an immediate ceasefire and Russian withdrawal. Russia demands that Ukraine accept the loss of the Donbass region. Putin also wants Ukraine to end its quest for NATO membership, demilitarize and recognize Crimea annexed in 2014 as part of Russia. At the end of the meeting, the Russian delegation indicated that there were certain points of "convergence". The talks should resume in the coming days. According to the Russian news agency Tass, a second round of negotiations between Ukraine and Russia is planned today. It is clear that the hopes for an improvement in the situation are tenuous. It also makes us very clear that these attacks on Ukraine are Russia's sole responsibility. A rapid European and international response, adapted to developments on the ground, was expected. That's what we did. At European level, while we have mainly referred to sanctions in recent days, there has also been, first and foremost, a large package of financial aid to Ukraine. Indeed, the European Union has committed itself to contributing EUR 1.2 billion in two equal instalments disbursed over 12 months. Why all these details? It is simply because I answer precisely the dozens of questions that were put to me before this meeting. These funds will be borrowed from the capital market and then loaned to Ukraine. There will therefore be no direct budgetary impact on the Member States. The aim of the massive sanctions adopted in recent days is to target the core of the Russian and Belarusian power and to cause significant economic consequences for the cessation of hostilities. A first package of sanctions was adopted by the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 February, following the Kremlin's recognition of the independence of separatist territories and the dispatch of so-called "peacekeeping" troops. On Friday 25 February, so day after the invasion, a second comprehensive package of sanctions against Russia and against Belarus was formally adopted. These sanctions are directed against financial institutions and certain export products from the energy sector, transport and dual-use goods. They also include visa restrictions and individual sanctions. Belgium has advocated the inclusion of President Putin and the Minister for Foreign Affairs Lavrov in the list of eligible persons. It points to the full responsibility for this aggression. Finally, on Sunday 27 February, at the Foreign Affairs Council, we took the decision to adopt a third package of unprecedented measures. This additional package was needed to respond to the growing violence on the ground since 24 February. The aim of these various sanctions packages remains as a priority to cut the funding of Russia and Belarus and to isolate them. The measures finalized in recent hours under this third sanctions package include the withdrawal of seven important Russian banks from the Swift interbank system, the ban on transactions with the Russian central bank and the freezing of its assets in Europe, a further expansion of the list of sanctioned individuals and the ban on Russian-related media broadcasting in the European Union. The aim of the latter measure is to ensure that Russian state media Russia Today and Sputnik and their subsidiaries can no longer broadcast Russian propaganda justifying the ongoing conflict. It is also imperative to launch a counter-offensive in terms of disinformation, which is certainly active in our country, but especially among the Russian population. In order to do so, we need a strong strategy to ensure that information on the situation in Ukraine is disseminated objectively in Russia, as long as possible. In the coming hours, Coreper will also formally approve an extension of economic sanctions in Belarus. In addition to these economic and individual sanctions against Russia and Belarus, the European Union has decided to close its airspace to flights by Russian airlines. It has also been decided – historic – that the European Union will finance the supply of military equipment to Ukraine – a taboo subject so far. This will be done within the framework of the European Peace Facility. An amount of EUR 450 million is foreseen for lethal military equipment, while EUR 50 million is to be used to provide other military resources, including fuel. Finally, a strong response to human tragedy is also expected in the field of humanitarian aid. On Monday evening, as part of the third sanction package, agreement was reached on a new set of individual restrictive measures against a list of Russian oligarchs, including the spokesperson of the Kremlin, the President of Rosneft and several journalists involved in the Russian state propaganda. For example, we show that we remain particularly determined not to let the current drama in Ukraine pass without serious consequences for Moscow. All our Western partners agree with that approach. EU sanctions are also applied by the non-European partners of the G7, namely the US, the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan, as well as Switzerland. Let me now turn to the NATO part of our discussions. We must be clear: NATO will react and take measures to protect the territory of the alliance. The collective defence applies only to NATO members and not to Ukraine. An deployment of NATO forces is only envisaged within the boundaries of the alliance. There is currently no question of sending Belgian troops to Ukraine. But NATO is taking every precaution to ensure the deterrent and defence of the alliance's territory. For more details, I would like to refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Defence, even though questions have been put to me. The allies agreed at a virtual summit on 25 February. This reaffirmed NATO's unity and determination and NATO's willingness to provide political and practical support to Ukraine. This Friday, I will be participating in an exceptional NATO Foreign Affairs Ministerial meeting that will allow us to closely monitor the situation and NATO's response to this crisis. This working session will be held with Finland and Sweden, with the participation of the European Union. An exchange with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, Dmytro Kuleba, is also envisaged. At the international level, consultations have increased at a very fast pace since last Thursday. At the United Nations level, the Security Council resolution urging Russia to withdraw ended on Friday with a Russian veto. However, it should be noted from this vote that Russia has been isolated since China abstained. This Sunday, another vote was taken in the Security Council to launch a special session of the General Assembly, with all members of the United Nations. This session began this Monday. Belgium has already expressed itself strongly. The vote on the resolution is scheduled for Wednesday. This resolution calls on Russia to stop the use of force and withdraw. A two-thirds majority is needed for it to be adopted. An important diplomatic exercise is under way to obtain maximum support. I myself took the time this morning to call some members to reaffirm our willingness to see this resolution adopted. A session of the Security Council was held on Monday in the presence of the High Commissioner for Refugees to address humanitarian aspects, including Russia's respect for civilian populations. A new resolution focusing on humanitarian aspects, prepared by France and Mexico, is on the table. The vote on this resolution is due this week. In Geneva this week meetings will take place at the highest level of the disarmament committee and the Human Rights Councils. The Ukraine issue will, of course, be at the heart of that. A special session will take place next Thursday with the adoption of a resolution creating a committee of inquiry. Former so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of Crimea'. It will make recommendations for accountability and judicial mechanisms to bring the perpetrators to justice. At the Council of Europe level, last Friday, the Member States initiated the so-called Article 8 procedure, which starts with the suspension of Russia. The obligations under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights continue to apply in Russia at this stage. At the OSCE level, four councils were held last week on the situation in Ukraine. I participated in the OSCE Permanent Council on Thursday, 24 February, to reiterate our firm condemnation of Russian actions in Ukraine. The OSCE is a unique forum, bringing together 57 countries, including Russia and Ukraine. It allows us to pass our messages directly on to key stakeholders. I thank the members of this Assembly who also attended this meeting. Moreover, the OSCE plays a special role in the conflict in Ukraine, as it is involved in the implementation of the Minsk agreements, through the trilateral contact group it organizes, an international observation mission in Donbass, known as the Special Monitoring Mission. Given the security situation, the mission had to be temporarily suspended. The observers were evacuated pending a return to the field. The Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court has indicated that he plans to open an investigation into war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by Russia in Ukraine. Belgium will support the Court in its efforts and the precise modalities of this support are currently being discussed within the European Union. It goes without saying that the situation in Ukraine is taking place in all multilateral forums. I will not draw up the complete list here: we are talking about UNESCO, OECD, IAEA, OPCW, etc. So you have seen, like me, the many initiatives that are being taken to isolate Russia both multilaterally and – this seems particular in relation to the tragedy that is taking place at the moment – at the level of sports competitions or cultural events at the international or bilateral level. And I can assure you that it is all these pressures that make the difference. There are no small interventions. These decisions do contribute to increasing isolation and pressure on the Russian regions to cease hostilities in Ukraine. As regards Foreign Affairs and Consular Affairs, Belgians in Ukraine and our embassy, there are currently 287 Belgians, members of their family unit, and registered Luxembourgers who have received notice to leave the country since 13 February. At present, Belgians have been asked to leave the country, if they believe they can do so safely, but in preparation for a very long journey: water, food, fuel, blankets and warm clothes. No displacement is possible in the case of curfews. Consular teams sent from our embassies to Warsaw, Vienna and Bucharest are present at the borders of Poland, Slovakia and Romania with Ukraine. At the Moldovan border, our Honorary Consul ensures the presence. Its teams are available and operational to help our compatriots. Our Honorary Consul in Lviv, Ukraine, is also still in place. The Foreign Affairs Crisis Centre remains fully active 24 hours a day to guide Belgians who need it. An emergency number was opened on 24 February. The Belgian Embassy in Ukraine had to leave Kiev on 28 February for Moldova with the Embassy of France, due to the deteriorating security situation. The team arrived last night in Moldova. This does not affect – I repeat – the consular services to Belgians who are still – always! – insured. On the one hand, consular assistance is provided from Brussels by the teams, particularly at the borders; on the other hand, consular powers such as the issuance of acts of nationality or civil status or ordinary passport applications are transferred to Warsaw. As far as the Belgians in Russia are concerned, there are 931 Belgians registered and not registered in the consular registers of the embassy in Moscow. There are 109 persons registered at Travellers Online, with whom the embassy is in contact. We have received the message to avoid movements to the Ukrainian border, to avoid meetings, to follow the instructions of the law enforcement officers and to take into account the impact of the crisis on connectivity with Belgium. They have also been given guidance on the routes that remain available to leave Russia. Due to the closure of the European airspace for Russian air carriers, passengers currently in the Russian Federation must contact their air carrier in order to inform them of a new itinerary. If the airlines do not provide for this, the passengers can contact the Belgian Embassy in Moscow, which can, for example, help to find a new travel scheme, depending on the individual circumstances. For example, the following connections are currently possible: daily flights from Moscow and St Petersburg to Istanbul, Yerevan, Belgrade, Dubai, etc. I won't go over the whole list. There are many other routes, than those directly to Belgium. It is still possible to leave Russia and return to Belgium. However, there is always a risk that these connections will be interrupted at a certain point in time. I would like to point out that the European posts on the ground are coordinating their work in order to assist the European citizens who have been stranded there as best as possible. As you will have seen, the situation is particularly tragic. It evolves from hour to hour. I will conclude by saying that in the face of adversity, Europe has shown its unity and strength thanks to the scale, consistency and speed of the sanctions adopted. These are among the hardest that the European Union has taken in the course of its history. The taboo for sending military equipment has also fallen, which is a very good thing given the dramatic situation on the ground. The cohesion and determination of NATO's allies are also being strengthened and, in addition to solidarity between states, we see a very broad mobilisation of civil society around the world. These encouragements are important for maintaining the morale and determination of the Ukrainian people. She must know she's not alone! Despite the disinformation in Russia, we are also seeing a growing number of demonstrations by Russian citizens calling on the Moscow regime to stop aggression in Ukraine, despite the risks to their personal security. We hope they will be heard. Finally, we will, of course, be following closely the development of the ongoing discussions between Kiev and Moscow in the coming days and hours. Under normal circumstances, that signal would be received in a positive way, but in the light of recent developments, we need to keep our expectations down. As far as we are concerned, the week will still be charged with bilateral contacts, meetings at European and NATO level. We will also have a Foreign Affairs meeting at the end of the week. At a forthcoming Council of Ministers, the aim will be to take stock of the situation between partners and of the implementation of the sanctions adopted. It is possible – we do not have confirmation yet – that US Secretary of State Blinken will join the meeting. We urgently need to protect our democracy and restore freedom in Ukraine. Belgium is doing its utmost to support the Ukrainians and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I will go straight to the essentials as far as the Department of Defence is concerned. My department is involved in bilateral aid to Ukraine. A convoy of Defence with military supplies, requested by the Ukrainian government, delivered the first shipment on Sunday. This delivery was possible thanks to the creation of a hub to transport the relief goods to Ukraine. The Belgian Government has also decided to deliver weapons and ammunition from available stocks to the Ukrainian Government in response to several requests made by the Government. Most weapons and ammunition were delivered. The rest follows in the coming hours and days. For obvious operational security reasons, I do not wish to communicate any more as to the exact number and type of weapons delivered, or as to how they will be delivered to the Ukrainian authorities and the regular army. You are aware that this is information that may endanger the mission. It is important that our military assistance is given the necessary guarantees. The modalities of our military support should only be made known to the main stakeholders through appropriate channels. In addition, as I had announced, the military hospital is ready to receive victims of the conflict, to provide care for the burns and to redirect the wounded to other Belgian hospitals, according to their pathology. Furthermore, and with the means available, we will also support the transport or reception of refugees, if necessary. As part of our NATO commitments, the immediately available units of the Alliance's Rapid Response Force have been, for many years, an active military force only in response to a major crisis requiring the rapid mobilization of NATO's force. What so far was hypothetical for many of us becomes a reality for Defence, for its staff and for the whole nation. Thus, NATO, with the agreement of our Government, decided this Saturday, 26 February, to strengthen its defensive and dissuasive presence at the borders of the Alliance's territory, in response to the Russian war in Ukraine. This is a major geopolitical moment. For the first time in the history of the alliance it has been decided to deploy this force, with the operational name VJTF. In the coming days, Defense will participate in this united response and send a detachment the size of a company, in this case about 300 soldiers, to Romania, within a battalion under French command. It is the first and third Platoon of Lancers in Marche-en-Famenne, a motorized infantry unit of the Earth Component, which will ensure this deployment with the necessary vehicles, a number of which are currently in operational readiness. Given the geographical distribution of the vehicles to be used, preparation takes a little time to assemble all the equipment required for deployment. But it is also true that today, more than ever, Defence is again experiencing the savings it has faced in recent decades. This is one of the reasons why I wanted to set up a logistics hub. In the coming months, investments are planned to do so. Despite the problems identified, operationality and safety remain assured, thanks to the hard and exceptional work of the women and men who form the department. Many elements from other service and combat support units, as well as the Medical Component, will accompany the lancers and will therefore also join the NATO Rapid Response Force, which will fulfil, as I said, a mission of protection and deterrence at the borders of the European Union in the Alliance area. At this stage, for the reasons already mentioned, I do not wish to communicate further on operational issues. I would like once again to take the opportunity to express my deep appreciation to all the Defence personnel who, in accordance with their duty, have responded to the command's call. The commitment of Defence women and men echoes the excellent reputation we hold within the Alliance. We are, of course, a modest partner in size but we are and will always be of great reliability. I also welcome the opportunity offered by the European External Action Service to use the extra-budgetary instrument of the European Peace Facility. The aim of this instrument is, inter alia, to strengthen international security by enabling the financing of lethal and non-letal equipment within the framework of the common foreign and security policy with military implications. Under that instrument, EUR 450 million was made available for lethal aid and EUR 50 million for non-lethal aid. The use of this instrument is a powerful signal from the coordinated and united European response to this crisis. In this context, coordination within the European Union and with NATO is essential to maximise the added value of our support to the Ukrainian authorities. Finally, as I have also said, this war is a major geopolitical turning point for the European Union and reminds us that our most precious achievement is peace on our continent. This peace was only possible through the construction of democratic States and the promotion of in-depth cooperation in our relations. Today, in particular, we must, together, strengthen our vigilance in the face of hybrid activities in the Union and be ready to deal quickly with cyber attacks and misinformation campaigns. In this context, it should be noted that Defence is currently in an increased state of alertness with regard to cyber threats. One advantage of the recent cyber attack is that structural measures taken in recent weeks significantly strengthen the protection of Defense ICT systems against future cyber attacks. Moreover, the military network is always closed off from the public internet for security reasons, making the ICT systems of the Belgian army less vulnerable. In addition, the SGRS has issued, in the current context, a series of cybersecurity recommendations to all Defence personnel to protect them as much as possible against any cyberattack in the particular context we know. In general, our defence cooperation and the resilience of our common missions in the field of security and defence policy are another important area that we must strengthen. Let us not forget that Russia is also engaged in malicious activities in the Middle East, in the Balkans and in Africa. We need to find a way to prevent the presence of private military and security companies acting as proxies, and more generally also to counter Russia's influence in these regions. In conclusion, I would like once again to thank all those who are closely or far involved in the ongoing military operation. I would also like to have a thought for the families of the members of the department who let a father or mother, relative or relative leave to serve the Nation. Their support is essential and will never be stressed enough. Therefore, I cannot conclude without once again commending the courage and bravery of the Ukrainian people who are fighting every day for the integrity of their territory. It forces and inspires the greatest respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, where there is war, people are fleeing. That's from all times. You believe it or you don't believe it, but 90% of all refugees in the world reside in the region where war rages, according to UNHCR figures. Today we are that region. From Brussels to Malaga is a distance of 2,100 kilometers, from Brussels to Lviv a distance of 1,600 kilometers. Two countries separate us from Ukraine, namely Germany and Poland. The efforts that are being made today, mainly in Eastern Europe, are both commendable and commendable. We must keep our heads down, but we must not delay either. This is what we are doing especially in Eastern Europe at the moment: we are not waiting, we are executing and doing what is necessary to accommodate people fleeing Putin's aggression, who are so forced to leave their homes in search of a place where they can find some security. These images of men and women who are on the border with Ukraine, Poland, Hungary, Moldova and elsewhere and who are willing to accept people and offer them accommodation are beautiful and show how the European Union is prepared to welcome people who are fleeing a place where the danger remains. The situation, of course, changes from day to day, from hour to hour. One thing is certain: there are a lot of people on the run, which of course cannot be surprised when one sees the images. This means, of course, that we face a huge challenge in the area of reception throughout Europe. I can't look into the future, unfortunately, so I can't estimate the exact size of what's coming right now. We must prepare ourselves, all over Europe. We must prepare ourselves, even here in Belgium. In any case, the wave of solidarity that exists today is heartwarming. Today, more than 700,000 Ukrainians have left their country. This number increases every day. According to a credible UNHCR estimate, the number of refugees could reach 4 million, or about 10 per cent of the country's total population. In addition, 7.5 million people could be displaced in Ukraine itself. Questions were also asked about the non-Ukrainians at the Polish border, who should not cross. At least I can't confirm those testimonies right now. For the time being, NGOs and international organisations cannot confirm that there is a systematic violation. European agencies contradict the information that non-Ukrainians should not cross the border. However, it is an important point of attention. International law must be respected. On the previous Sunday Council, I stressed that no one can be denied access on the basis of colour, colour of his eyes or colour of his passport, and I will do so again at the next Council. Making a selection based on origin is, of course, inadmissible. If the persons are safe, the procedures applicable to these persons must of course be examined. They may well have to return to their country of origin if it is safe there. To do so, they can, of course, also be supported to return voluntarily if they do not have the means to do so. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is also there to assist. The Member States of the European Union, which have a border with Ukraine, confirm that they are ready to welcome as many Ukrainian nationals as possible. They make it a point of honour. They do not report difficulties with management or reception. The European Border Guard Agency (Frontex) and the European Union Asylum Agency are ready to provide support if Member States request assistance to carry out their mandate. It is important to draw attention to the work already done by these Eastern European countries. Hungary has already welcomed about 100,000 Ukrainians who have fled their country to find protection. Poland, for its part, has welcomed more than 300,000 people. The European policy in force in Eastern Europe therefore allows for very short-term support. The number of requests for international protection from Ukraine is clearly increasing, particularly in Belgium. As of January 2022, there were a total of 12 applications for international protection from that country. In February of this year, the figures have increased, with 54 additional requests. On Monday, 28 February, some 300 people were held at the door of the reception centre, including 90 Ukrainians. For these, the procedure to be followed is different. They must not go through the Petit-Château. Their recording is done in another way. But I will come back to that in a moment. About 80% of Ukrainians who registered on 28 February had already provided housing, their own home or family or friends. So Ukrainians should not register in the Klein Kastiltje. They should first register with the municipality for an arrival declaration, pending the activation of their temporary status, which will be held at European level tomorrow. As far as the status of temporary protection is concerned, the Justice and Home Affairs Council will examine tomorrow a proposal which Belgium has also supported both the members of the Council and the Commission to activate the Temporary Protection Directive. I'll commit myself to that again tomorrow. As a country and as a European Union, we must show solidarity with the Ukrainian people. That's our duty and we don't abandon our neighbors. It might be good to know why this directive was ever created. This happened in 2001, during the civil wars in former Yugoslavia. It was decided at that time that, in the event of an acute crisis in Europe or at our borders, we must ensure that asylum procedures are not put under pressure so that people can be granted temporary protection immediately. With the situation in Ukraine today, I think it is only logical that we take this historic decision. I therefore hope that tomorrow we can take steps in the right direction. The aim of the Directive is therefore to provide these persons with an automatic stay outside the asylum procedure. The mass influx of displaced persons shall be determined by a decision of the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission. That proposal defines the specific groups of persons to whom temporary protection applies and sets the date on which the temporary protection scheme will enter into force. The Council's decision shall be binding. If the directive is activated, then the Member States will grant protection to Ukrainians who wish to use it. I shall now turn to the registration of the requests. In order to ensure smooth registration, the Aliens Office, in cooperation with Fedasil, is setting up a separate registration centre for Ukrainians. Indeed, with temporary protection, these Ukrainians are not asylum seekers but automatically receive protection. As I said earlier, they must not go to the Petit-Château to register but to the commune for a declaration of arrival pending the activation of the temporary status. Of course, a safety check is provided for in the procedure and must be carried out. The Directive provides for various grounds for exclusion, such as threats to public order, war crimes, etc. Cooperation with the intelligence and security services will take place to that end. If Ukrainians apply for asylum, their application will be suspended until the end of the temporary protection period. I'll get to the right of residence. Persons receiving the status of temporary protection will immediately be granted a right of residence of one year. This one-year authorisation is renewable twice by six months and may be extended by one additional year on the basis of a new decision. With the registration certificate that Ukrainian refugees receive at the registration centre that will be established for them in Brussels, they can register in the municipality. For members of the nuclear family there is, of course, also the right to family reunification, which is already provided for in Article 57/34 of the Aliens Act. Some of them appear to be commenting or asking questions. The men who are still in Ukraine today indicate that they want to stay there to fight for their country. But if they want to be united with their wife and child after that or today, so what? If a Ukrainian man and woman want to be here with their child, so what? Persons enjoying temporary protection status have immediate access to the labour market and social services. In principle, therefore, a person enjoying temporary protection status does not enter Fedasil's reception network for asylum seekers during the procedure. Given the need for shelter and housing that may exist for Ukrainians arriving on our territory, care is provided for those who need it. How do we proceed in practice? Phase 1 concerns the Brussels crisis shelter by Fedasil, which will take place at the Institut Jules Bordet, the former hospital, where people are temporarily taken care of, registered and screened for a few nights. If necessary, other centres will also be used. Phase 2 is the flow to the municipalities. Why is that happening? I repeat that the persons concerned are not asylum seekers, they are automatically protected and are therefore entitled to housing. They need to look for housing all over this country. Of course, the federal government wants to help. It is not a question of looking at who is competent for what, we are looking at what the federal level and the regions can do together. The municipalities can therefore provide for crisis housing in the first instance. Think of emergency accommodations, sports halls or families if there is demand for them. To this end, a call was also sent to the provincial governors via the Crisis Centre on 28 February 2022 to identify available crisis sites. In the meantime, they already contacted the municipalities to do what was necessary. The municipalities have clearly indicated their willingness to cooperate, but I will come back to that later. After that, of course, those involved must be led to regular housing as soon as possible. We are not still at that point either. In an Inter-Ministerial Conference yesterday we looked at the challenges together with the regional ministers. I would also like to express my thanks to the regional ministers here. The cooperation on the basis of that first meeting which we soon convened was immediately constructive. Everyone realises that these are unprecedented times when we need to work together to find solutions in the areas of housing, integration, education and employment. I can go on for a while. Today is a matter of beating hands and making the most of it. On the question of crisis housing, I can tell you that the National Crisis Centre informed the provincial governors, who in turn contacted the local authorities. It is therefore true that it took some time for the information to be properly and properly transferred to, for example, the Civic Affairs department of the local authorities. So these are unseen times. Moreover, I am particularly proud of the way in which the local authorities immediately started working on this information. Since Ukrainians will be given a specific status, they will be able to call for guidance from the CAW, the civil society services and so on. Of course, the federal level will support that, too. This way of working was created in 2001 in order to find solutions quickly in the wake of the outbreak of a war in the European backyard. Once again, it is happening in our region and must ensure that we do what we are asked to do. We must not put pressure on the asylum system. I want to make it very clear with you. I spoke earlier about the distance between Brussels-Malaga and Brussels-Lviv. I would also like to talk about the size of the current capacity and compare it with the situation in 2015. This comparison is sometimes made. In 2015, there were 30,000 people per month for the whole of Europe. In Ukraine today, there are 100,000 people a day. With this, I would just like to state the extent of the matter we are discussing today. Make no mistake. As far as the challenges are concerned, I fully realise that they are huge, but we did not sit still. On 21 February, my services sat together to map everything and see how we can do the necessary with the federal services. On 26 February, I set up a task force for the protection and reception of Ukrainians. It met immediately on Sunday and all next days again, with representatives of the Departments of Home Affairs, the Crisis Centre, Foreign Affairs, Social Integration, Defence and the Prime Minister. The task force will be extended to other departments to do the necessary. The day before yesterday, consultations were held with all the provincial governors to identify the available crisis sites. They then returned to the municipalities. There was also the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Finally, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who are involved, not least those who have indicated themselves to be part of the solution. Men and women contacted me to let me know they wanted to be able to house people. Two days ago, a Wolvertem family took leave to go to the firm and ask me what they could do to help and welcome Ukrainians. In view of this solidarity within society as a whole, we said that we should be able to give our citizens the opportunity to be part of the solution. That is why we launched the hashtag Placedispo - PlekVrij. We found that there are so many people who want to show solidarity. They prove once again that we are a society that is united, that wants to help and that will do what is necessary. I thank everyone. It will be very busy days, weeks and months. But that's part of the job. We have not chosen the chaos that is taking place in Ukraine today, following the attacks from Russia. But we are the ones who have to ensure that things go as well as possible and that we help everyone who needs help in the right way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u5	Colleagues, in a war, ordinary people pay the highest price. We should never think it normal that fathers should say goodbye to their children, that mothers should fear bombs and bullets where they are normally safe at home, that grandparents are left behind and not know if they will be there tomorrow. The humanitarian situation in Ukraine is deteriorating by the day. Thousands of houses have been destroyed in the last few days. In Ukraine, millions of people are on the verge of finding a safe place to stay. More than 670,000 people have already fled the country. That number rises every hour. If this continues, up to 7 million refugees will leave Ukraine towards neighbouring countries. According to the United Nations, the war has caused at least 103 civilian casualties, but in reality there are many more. Last Monday there were still hundreds of wounded, but at the end of the week we may be talking about thousands of wounded. In the coming weeks, direct access to humanitarian aid for the people of Ukraine will make the difference between life and death. Winter makes the conditions for the refugees even harder. According to UN organization OCHA, 12 million people need help. There are more than the inhabitants of Belgium. Since the start of the war, we have therefore closely monitored the situation on the ground with our services and humanitarian partners. Since the outbreak, Belgium has contributed to direct humanitarian aid through international partners. That was as soon as possible, because we chose to use a large part of our humanitarian budget flexibly. We do this by providing predictable multiannual budgets to international organisations and funds so that they can respond quickly to new crises. For example, we were able to make a key role possible for the UN Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), of which 20 million dollars were allocated to the urgent needs of Ukraine on the second day of the conflict. This year alone, our country has contributed EUR 17 million and will help to enable the operation of the CERF at such crucial moments. When the humanitarian situation continued to deteriorate, after a crisis meeting on Saturday 26 February, we decided to release EUR 3 million extra on top of the funds we already provide. This aid will be fully deployed through the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and is intended to protect our humanitarian workers and allow access to emergency assistance for anyone or anywhere. It is now up to us to get our help across the border as quickly as possible and close to the people. I am doing everything I can to monitor the work of our humanitarian partners as closely as possible. The resources must be used as efficiently as possible. Yesterday I took part in the major international UN Conference on Humanitarian Aid in Ukraine, organised by UNHCR and OCHA. UN officials, fellow ministers and the partners concerned discussed the actions we have already undertaken, and we looked at what else will be needed in the future. There's gonna be more to it. Let me emphasise this in particular. Together with my services, I will do everything in my power to get aid to the people as best I can and to protect our humanitarian partners at all times. We must never forget that behind the immense figures that we are dropping on this committee today are people who have the same dreams and the same wishes in life. It is our duty to continue to call for that mad war to cease and to help the people of Ukraine. Belgian solidarity is immense. The power of help is great. Let us now do everything possible to support the people of Ukraine and ensure that the war ends as soon as possible. Peter Buysrogge, President: Mr Prime Minister, members of the government, thank you for answering a number of written questions. This can only inspire our debate in a positive way. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to agree on a proper arrangement for the debate to take place in a somewhat orderly manner. I can imagine that many Members would like to express their views and have a number of additional questions. That is why the three presidents are proposing to complete everything in one round. We give each group eight minutes' speaking time. It is up to the political groups to decide how they divide it up. Then the government will return to answer any additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, eight minutes is not much, I am going to do my best to make some points and ask some questions. War is horrible and knows no winners. The first loser of war is the truth, as we all know. If there is one aspect that can be considered positive, it is that this opens the eyes of the Free West. The war certainly opens up in Europe and in our country. It's not like Russia was in the middle of an exercise. One does not collect a hundred thousand troops at a border, with even troops transferred from Siberia, to practice. People don't do that. Nobody does. Even Putin doesn't. It is not the case that Russia was suddenly withdrawing. Remember, two weeks ago, he said the troops were retreating. When that message came in, I didn't believe it at all, it scared me. It turned out to be just fake news, too. That was all information Russia shared to mislead us. We can't be naive. We can see that the information we receive from the intelligence services, especially the American and British intelligence services, has so far proved to be very accurate. Unlike Afghanistan when it was thought that the Taliban would take three months to take Kabul back, when it happened in three days, the intelligence services have now provided us with very good information. I understand that there is also very good information about the Ukrainian armed forces. I understand the deliveries went relatively well. It is not quite clear to me where that fuel is. Where is it? How are we gonna deliver that? DOD won't do that. That'll be with pipelines, I suppose. Is that finished? I would like a concrete answer to that. I also have a question about the ammo. Is there enough ammo for the FNCs? Is any additional ammo being purchased? Mr. Prime Minister, you know that I have called on you to sit with the management of FN Herstal. Did you do that? Will the Belgian government buy weapons? What material and ammunition will be purchased? I heard about a stock of 5,000 FN SCARS. Can you give me more information on that? I think this is necessary. Madam Secretary, are the troops sent to Romania adequately equipped? It was said that those 200 rocket launchers were actually needed for our own troops. Have we given enough rocket launchers with our troops? In a few hours, troops will be leaving. Do they have enough rocket launchers to meet NATO standards? Or have we given them away to the Ukrainians and now we have too few? I've read the defense union communications. What's the big deal? I want clear answers to that. The people have the right to know if we are sending our troops sufficiently equipped on mission. Strengthening the eastern border remains an absolute ambition and necessity. Have any further questions been asked, Prime Minister? I'm also glad we're not in Mali right now. That would mean they'd have to come back head-on. That would be a logistical disaster. I am glad that our people are here and that we can use them for collective security and defence that is so important and that will become a basic factor in our alliance with NATO in the coming years, even more than ever. After all, we are very likely to go to a new kind of cold war with Russia. Then it is necessary to protect and defend that eastern border itself and to radiate a clear deterrence on Russia and our other enemies. Is there an offensive cyber strategy? Are there any cyber attacks by the Americans towards Moscow? I read of something, but isn't that right? The Russians or the Americans will probably not communicate about this themselves. I think this is an ideal time to, like the Germans, make additional money for the Defense Department. It's now or never for that 2%. I know that the STAR plan is already making an effort to go from 1% to 1.56% of GDP, but should we not try to target 2% by 2030? Prime Minister, I call on you to work on this and to put this resilience agenda really at the heart of it. As far as energy independence is concerned, I would like to hear you say that we are all looking forward to 18 March. We'll see if the government survives. I believe that energy independence should simply be in the strategic concept of NATO and in the new Strategic Compass of the European Union. I therefore hope that you will try to draw that map in the context of the discussions this spring and that you will advocate a passage on energy independence, both for the NATO alliance and for the European Union. That seems to me to be a very important objective. As far as Poland is concerned, I am pleased that we are looking at Eastern Europe with a different perspective. We have had difficult years with countries like Poland, both in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. I am pleased that we are now getting to know these countries in a different way and hope that we can improve our understanding in the long term. They may have a different culture and mentality, but they are also Europeans and fantastic nations. As for the refugees, I hear Secretary of State Mahdi'so what?' say and tell that there are now 100,000 a day and in 2015 there were 30,000 a month. As I know, there were 1,206 million asylum applications in the European Union in 2015. There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics . Comparing an annual average with a daily average is very strange. In autumn 2015, there were also days when many tens of thousands of people applied for asylum in the European Union, so I think it is important that we remain intellectually honest and propose things correctly. Mr Secretary of State, I now come to the issue of refugees themselves. You say the shelters are full. You have taken the flight forward by advocating at European level the activation of the 2001 directive, which has never happened before, but there are certainly reasons to do so. Of course, it's also very convenient for you, because you just don't have a place anymore. You have already been convicted more than a hundred times for not offering places to asylum seekers or asylum seekers, in that sense it is a flight ahead. Now the responsibility lies entirely with the municipalities. I myself am also mayor, and I must tell you that there are a lot of questions on the ground. I am absolutely opposed to the reception of refugees at people's homes. That's nice for a few weeks, because then it's exactly vacation, but not for a year or three years. I think that's really gonna lead to bad things, which isn't supposed to. Many people, of course, have good intentions, but we are politicians and we need to keep our hearts high and our heads cool. We must ensure that such excesses are avoided. We call for collective care by the municipalities; I think this is important. In particular, we are calling for further consultations as soon as possible, which is currently taking place, with the Länder and the VVSG. After all, the municipalities cannot fill in the need for psychological guidance. The OCMW's have been questioned because of the coronapandemic and the current problem of priceless energy bills. On behalf of a lot of mayors, I can say we're understaffed. Yesterday I called together the mayors of Flemish Brabant. Unisono is there absolutely good will to help, but there really needs to be support and guidance. There is also a need for help in the field of logistics. For example, when a municipality opens a reception centre, beds and lockers must be provided. Normally, Fedasil takes care of it. Can we make use of this, or should each municipality order individual furniture? These are all practical matters that every mayor and every OCMW is now considering. I therefore hope for very clear guidelines. As far as screening is concerned, we need to be sure that the Ukrainians are involved. We must be sure that these people are safe, so there are no criminals or people with a different profile among the refugees. There is also a need to provide psychological guidance, taking into account possible war traumas. The children must also be well supervised. I'm making a warm call to make that work. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speaking time. Peter Buysrogge, President: Mr Francken, you have exceeded your speaking time by one minute, which I think is within the limit of the tolerance, but I suggest that there is not too much extra time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u7	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, I thank you first of all for involving Parliament in these dark days for our continent. Thank you very much to our diplomats, our military personnel, our officials for their incredible service in the field. It really matters a lot and it is important to start with that. We are the seventh day of the Russian invasion; particularly dark days are still waiting for the Ukrainian people, and we are thinking of them first. We are thinking first of those completely innocent victims who have to wake up every morning under the fumes of bombs. Of course, the Russian military giant will win battles and conquer land, but I think one thing is already certain: these soldiers will not win the war against democracy that forms the basis of the common European project but also of the Ukrainian revolution. And the autocrat Putin will certainly intensify his bloody strikes, aiming at civilian targets and residential areas as he did in Aleppo or Grozny in the past, none the less, for generations, in the eyes of Ukrainians but also in the eyes of Europeans, a war criminal, a tyrant and an invader. Putin certainly did not expect this other unexpected effect of his brutal and unprovoked aggression against Ukraine. He clearly did not expect such resistance from those whose existence he still denied yesterday. We have all seen these images that glaze the blood of those Ukrainians who were crossing the road of the Russian tanks with their bare hands. We saw this video of the Snake Island soldiers who told a Russian ship to fuck. And, as we remember Tiananmen Square, we will still remember the Ukrainian resistance for a very long time. I am also thinking of Russian citizens. It's important to say so. Thousands of them have been arrested in the last few days because they dared to protest on the street. I mean that we are also at the side of these courageous and bold Russian citizens and even those Belarusian exiles who are now engaged in defending Ukrainian cities. Hat! These Ukrainians, Russians, Belarusians who dare to stand up against a tyrant, force respect, force admiration from all over the world, and give us a lesson in political courage. I think that's the question that sums up all the others, and I'm coming to it. But when we see the terrifying images of these torn children who have to say goodbye to their dad because he is obliged to stay on the ground to defend Ukraine against the invader, I think very modestly and humbly that the question that must be before us today, as politicians, at our small level in Belgium, is whether we are really doing enough. I must tell you that, frankly, I am proud, proud to see the united, rapid reaction of your Government, but also of the European Union. The generous, united and united European Union, which we have seen in recent days, fills me with real pride. I also want to say to all these war refugees, and again without any discrimination on the basis of skin colour: welcome, welcome to our home. I am also proud because yesterday, SNCB announced that train trips for Ukrainian refugees would be free on our territory. I am proud of this generous and supportive Europe that builds bridges when others try to destroy them. I come to my three questions about your government action. The first necessarily concerns, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, diplomatic initiatives for a ceasefire, particularly in the General Assembly of the United Nations. I commend your efforts, I commend the efforts of our Permanent Mission to New York, but also to the Human Rights Council in Geneva. One wonders what can still be expected from the Security Council, which unfortunately seems paralyzed. I also wonder what the prospects are for opening a safe humanitarian and logistical corridor to deliver medical equipment, care, humanitarian agencies, such as WHO, including in eastern Ukraine, to save lives. Finally, I think it is important to recall this, because we have not talked enough about it: the war also knows rules. This is called international humanitarian law. I'm sorry, but when you see Putin deliberately aiming at residential areas, it has a name in international law: it's a war crime. As you said, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, the prosecutor wants to open an investigation for war crimes, and even crimes against humanity, in Ukraine. I know how committed Belgium is to The Hague. But how will our country actually support this initiation of investigations? We know that, if a State party to the Rome Statute, and perhaps Belgium, supports this request to the prosecutor to open an investigation, then it will not be necessary to go through a pre-trial chamber and we can go faster. I think it is important to go quickly, to ensure international justice and to say loud and clear to Putin that his crimes will not go unpunished. Finally, I really want to assure you of the full support of the government, the European Union and, above all, the Ukrainians. Before leaving the floor to my colleague Eva Platteau, I really want to say to them from the bottom of my heart: "No, we will not let you go!"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u8	Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to everyone that the invasion was planned and has only one goal: to conquer Kiev and to overthrow the government. All diplomacy had failed in advance, because Putin won't talk. He has chosen the language of violence. He does not spare the citizens of Ukraine. Putin is a war criminal. He is massively violating human rights and sending ignorant young men and, judging by the images, perhaps even children to the front. I am therefore grateful to our government that it has quickly and unequivocally condemned Putin's actions. We must make it clear that we will not tolerate this act of aggression and will never tolerate it. Putin's aggression model must no longer pay off. Look what happened in Chechnya, Georgia and Crimea. He has always thought that he could move on and the border was moved on literally and figuratively. But this time, as an international community, as a united Europe, with all the democratic parties in Parliament, we say no loudly and clearly. Mr Secretary of State, I had also tabled questions on asylum and migration, including the European directive on the temporary protection status. I hope that a decision will be taken tomorrow. I would also like to express my concern about the coverage of screening at European borders. You are right to stress that you will raise this as a point of attention at the European Council. A selection based on origin is inadmissible. All nationalities residing in Ukraine must have the opportunity to flee and be evacuated safely to their home countries. People of other nationalities wishing to apply for asylum in Europe should also be given the opportunity to do so. I had also asked a question about humanitarian visas for political refugees from Russia. The war in Ukraine also raises the question of the protection of Russian citizens who are currently openly opposed to the war. I haven't gotten any answers to that yet. Maybe you can do that after all. In connection with the reception, you have made a call to the local authorities and launched a campaign with the hashtag site-free. We do indeed see enormous solidarity with Ukraine among our people. Many of our citizens say spontaneously that they want to help. That's good to see, but it's still a challenge to make that happen in a good way. There's a lot of questions with the local authorities. That is why I believe that good communication is needed. That is all the more true for those who want to offer a place to refugees. For the moment, we do not know how long it will take; there is a good chance that it will be long-term care. What support does the federal government offer to local governments? The regions will and will also accept their responsibility for this. I regret that some politicians, also present here, have developed a discourse about real refugees versus other refugees. Let us not use the solidarity that exists among our people to awaken distrust of war refugees from other areas, but let us stress today that it is all about people seeking security and protection and looking for a better future for themselves and their children. My thoughts are with the Ukrainians, with the men, women and children who have to suffer this unjust violence, with all the refugees who have had to leave their homes and who have lost everything, with the courageous citizens who have remained to oppose the Russian invaders, with the families who have been torn apart, who have to miss each other and who do not know when they will see each other, with the vulnerable people, young children, sick and elderly people who currently have no chance of fleeing the country because they are vulnerable. They are courageous in their resistance, even though the fear and uncertainty about the future must be overwhelming for them. My thoughts also go out to the Russian people who didn't want the war and who bravely come out on the street to express their opposition to Putin with the danger of being treated harshly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u9	Mr President, on the basis of last week's statements and Parliament's almost unanimous expression, it is important to reaffirm our positions and support for the government and the decisions taken so far. In this period of cohesion, it is more essential than ever to show the cohesion between Parliament and the government. It is important to recall the primary role of government-Parliament contacts. This must be in line with the attitudes taken by other Parliaments at other times in such circumstances. We must be able to reassure the public that has already been undermined by the health crisis and the misinformation that comes from all sides. We must try, through this cohesive attitude, to limit the anxiety climate. The public has nothing to do with sterile debates between us at this time. If we put forward a resolution, it would aim to strengthen the government in its efforts towards the United Nations, European and NATO actors to obtain an immediate ceasefire, as the UN Secretary-General has called for. A resolution could also aim to inform Parliament in a transparent and almost real-time manner of the next steps in military engagement and define its contours. I would point out that this has been done at other times and that this is provided for in the government agreement. A resolution would also emphasize the reception of refugees, regardless of their beliefs and skin colour. It would also provide an opportunity to express Parliament's support for the military and civilians, as well as for diplomatic personnel, who are going through a difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u10	Mr President, it was thought that the twentieth century had ended in 2001 and that we were entering an era of asymmetrical conflicts. With this war in Ukraine, we are witnessing somewhere the great return of the twentieth century and political realism. Prior to possible discussions for a political settlement of this conflict, we must help create the most favourable balance of forces for Ukrainians. Indeed, the stakes go far beyond Ukraine's fate. It is the future of Europe that is being played here. I come to my questions. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have spoken – these are your words – of sanctions to put an end to hostilities. Does that mean that sanctions are linked to hostilities as such? Do you therefore consider that as soon as a cease-fire is established, the sanctions are intended to be lifted? More specifically, what prospects do you give sanctions over time? On the other hand, the risk of an overrun of the conflict has often been mentioned, depending on the success of the campaign in Ukraine, towards Moldova or Georgia. These are the most frequently cited countries. It is also known that in recent years the Russians have taken very strong military positions in Syria, Libya and Mali. Are you analysing developments in these areas that would be warning signs of a generalisation of the conflict far from Ukraine's borders? In my opinion, it deserves to be examined. With regard to the 450 million European aid, I would like clarification. Is this amount given to Ukraine for the purchase of military equipment? Or is it equivalent to the value of the military equipment sent? If so, who owns this military equipment? Is this a pooling of equipment belonging to the different Member States? Is there a risk analysis of the delivery of equipment, considering that in some areas there is a greater risk of this material falling into the hands of the Russians? I would also like to know what would happen if at some point, depending on the evolution of the military situation in Ukraine, the Ukrainian government called for military intervention by NATO or certain countries on its territory. Is there already a prospect of such a development? What is your analysis of China's role and current attitude? It is clear that it does not provide strong and frank support to Russia, but it is also known that the Chinese are watching the situation carefully and that in the south-eastern Pacific, potential conflicts may or may not be triggered depending on how Europe and the United States, in particular, respond to the Russian offensive in Ukraine. I am thinking here of the situation in Taiwan. I come to the last two points I wanted to mention. The TTF Stock Exchange, which concerns gas, flies completely. Gas prices have doubled in six days. How do we anticipate the situation on the energy markets? This debate has been in the hands of the government for a long time, but it is going to come back forcefully in the wake of the situation in Ukraine. Finally, Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, you spoke about our consul's presence at the Moldovan border. Transnistria is a Russian-speaking region on which Russia also relies to do in Moldova what it did in Ukraine at the departure of the border regions. What is the security situation on the ground, not least for our diplomatic teams, but also for the deployments that could be organized in that area? Peter Buysrogge, president: Mr Rigot, I give you the floor for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u11	Mr President, I will do as soon as possible, but you will understand that the migration issue is important. With regard to the European solidarity that you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, my group welcomes the fact that this Europe of solidarity finally exists. Indeed, this has not always been the case. We are waiting for lessons to be learned in the future. Today, we are proud to be Europeans. But we must pursue the same policy in the future towards all those who are in distress, be they Ukrainians, Syrians, Afghans. Europe must have a constant humanitarian attitude. As for selective screening of refugees, as you said, we must be clear at European level. This is unacceptable. If these facts are to be proved, we will have to condemn them firmly. It doesn't matter where it came from. In the face of an emergency situation, we need a European solidarity attitude. There is no question of racial or other criteria filtering out human distress. In addition, tomorrow's challenge at European level is the launch of the European Temporary Protection Directive. It is entirely justified in view of the context. It is also necessary for us, because we are already in a worrying situation at Belgian level. But what if the European Council does not make progress in this direction? Do you have any information on the distribution mechanism between countries? What information mechanisms will be put in place to ensure that Ukrainian refugees know what door to knock and how to proceed? The activation of this mechanism is likely to affect cities, and major cities in the first place (Brussels, Liège, etc.).). How can we help them to be able to deliver this humanitarian aid, which is quick and necessary? What are the immediate needs for you? Consider convening a CIM to prepare the follow-up, i.e. psychological and social support, teaching, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Finally, with regard to Russian visas, you are referring to the fact that Russians are not welcome. I want us to have a sense of reason, and to ensure that the granting of a visa is refused in the event of unacceptable individual behaviour, but that beyond that, we do not have a general policy on Russian visas. We will not be able to follow you on this point. We must not punish those among the Russians who today do not defend the attitude of a dictator like Putin and who are, on the contrary, in an approach as humane and solidarity as ours today. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, and thank you, Mr. President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u12	Prime Minister, Ministers and Secretary of State, the situation regarding the conflict in Ukraine is evolving and changing as we speak. For days now, a sovereign country has suffered the consequences of a violent raid which should strongly condemn everyone with common sense. We are therefore looking forward to the enormous suffering that the people of Ukraine are currently facing and to the many citizens, mostly women and children, who are currently fleeing. They absolutely deserve our solidarity. Capturing in our own region is a position that we absolutely support. On the other hand, the population that remains on the ground is also extremely combative. This ensures that the hoped blitz war does not go as smoothly as Russian power Putin had hoped. However, the opposition that he is experiencing will cause Putin to shift a gear higher. The military convoy that we are seeing moving towards Kiev does not, of course, promise much good in this respect. Looks like it's only a matter of time. It threatens to be a total bloodbath on our eastern borders, and we must do everything we can to prevent it. That and nothing else must now be our main task, namely a cease-fire with de-escalation. We must also try to reopen diplomatic talks wherever possible, however difficult and questionable their outcome may be. That's gotta come first. We must ensure that the situation is pacified as soon as possible. That is, by the way, an element that I have missed in the explanatory statement. Mr Prime Minister, if they were to answer the question at once, would it be wise in this context to use inciting war rhetoric? For the record, I don't mean you by that. However, we hear a number of provocations and a military escalation is being displayed. We are threatening to overplay our hand and possibly drag Europe into a devastating war. Preventing such a scenario must be our first priority. I would therefore like to ask you a number of questions. In our view, the statements made by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, inviting Ukraine to join the EU in the heat of the battle do not fit in with this vision. Even europhile liberals like Karel De Gucht strongly rejected this idea. His exceptional courage and the tragedy that ravages the Ukrainian people do not detract from the fact that Ukraine is currently neither economically nor politically nor culturally ready for EU membership. I am pleased that you have endorsed that view in your explanatory statement. It's unnecessary to throw oil on the fire. It was perhaps a good thing to communicate publicly at the moment only on humanitarian aid, which is absolutely necessary. As far as far-reaching European arms supplies are concerned, I would also like to hear your views on the further risk of escalation. Which countries are currently participating in this? What is the exact use of the devices and such? Mrs Dedonder, what does the Belgian military contribution mean in concrete terms? What are the concrete rules or commitment to our military forces that will be deployed in Romania from this week on? What about their security? Do they currently have all the necessary supplies in the field of military equipment? How do the arms deliveries to which Belgium has committed itself impact our national security and our strategic stock? Is our contribution to NATO's Baltic Air Police mission in Estonia being extended by the end of this month? In addition, but crucially important, the experts say that an adapted military architectural framework is needed in Europe. Belgium is always on the back. It closes the line on fiscal efforts for Defence. Mr Prime Minister, is this government, like a number of neighbouring countries, considering increasing resources for its own defence? The nuclear threat is, probably rightly, dismissed as additional pressure from Putin, but it is not negligible. A cat in a tight spot often makes strange jumps. Perhaps it is a hypothetical question, but if this regional conflict in Ukraine descends on our European NATO counterparts, how will we react, in cooperation with NATO? Do we currently have a plan for nuclear escalation? What's the impact on our stored nuclear weapons in Little Brogel? Have they been put on high alert at the moment, as the press reported? Are we currently a target for the Russians because of their presence and our actions? Putin is undoubtedly aware that Europe is not or is not sufficiently prepared for that doomsday scenario. This also deserves due attention. Finally, what about our cyber security? I hear certain Members calling for an offensive strategy. However, the latest attacks have taught us that even our defensive strategy is not sufficient to meet this challenge. So I would also like to have your vision on that point. With regard to sanctions, the Flemish Interest has always advocated tough, smart and targeted sanctions against the individual responsible and against the organisations responsible for the aggression. Can you outline the concrete impact of the sanctions already taken on Russia in the EU and NATO context? Do they, in your view, respond to the objectives set out? Prime Minister, you have not yet declared that you have any knowledge of any counter-sanctions. Nevertheless, we must take this into account. What plan do we have on this? I have another question for Mrs Wilmès and Mrs Dedonder. Quid Belarus and the real military threat that exists at the time of Belarus? Belarus and Russia form one army. After all, the country is also mobilizing for Putin and the Russian offensive. What threat does the government currently take into account? Minister Wilmès mentioned the withdrawal of Russian troops. What information do we have at the moment? Do we once again risk hybrid warfare, including organised illegal mass migration, bearing in mind the recent actions of Belarus? How will our government and the European Union respond to this? Finally, I have a few questions for Secretary of State Mahdi. He referred to the activation of the European Directive, under which Ukrainian refugees immediately receive temporary residence papers, without having to go through the asylum procedure. Can he guarantee that only Ukrainian refugees have recourse to that directive or will the regime be applied to others who are crossing the EU border from Ukraine these days? Can he give us any further explanation? In other words, will he ensure that the directive contains a strict definition of the specific groups of persons to whom temporary protection applies? It is predictable that non-Ukrainians will therefore seize this opportunity to come to Europe in the wake of Ukrainian refugee flows and to have direct access to all kinds of support mechanisms. Both Russia and Belarus could even be a deliberate policy. What measures are being taken to combat this potential abuse and to tackle fraud hard? Since Ukrainian refugees will be granted residence status through the temporary protection mechanism, which is therefore being activated, the reception does not fall within the existing frameworks and the State Secretary considers that the local level is the most appropriate for organising crisis housing. He involved the cities and municipalities in making an initial assessment of the available crisis sites. How many additional places are currently available for the reception of Ukrainian refugees, both in the public and private sectors, after consultation with regional actors? Through the hashtag PlekVrij initiative, private citizens can currently choose which individuals they receive. Does there also apply a certain minimum period of time for that kind of care? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that this initiative applies only to Ukrainian refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u13	Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, I thank you on behalf of my MR Group for your presentations, but not only. I also thank you for your action in recent days, which has been intense and professional in this crisis management. Thank you also for your opening at the reception of Ukrainians. We know, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, that solidarity is great for these thousands of civilians, I take the words of Minister Sophie Wilmès, for "the thousands of civilians on their way to exile". Today, after the words I have just heard, it is with the strength of my heart that I tell you that, thanks to your action, I am proud to be Belgian and proud to be European. I will be with my group alongside you in future actions because we know, and that is what we feared, that this may take some time. With regard to the Asylum and Migration component, I welcome the position that the government is taking with the voice of our Secretary of State, Mr Mahdi. I note that our country expresses its willingness to be welcoming to Ukrainian refugees fleeing the war. With the 2001 European directive that you have mentioned several times over the last few days, we could offer automatic protection to Ukrainians. This would be the first time in the history of the European Union that this directive would be activated. In concrete terms, all Ukrainian citizens would have the right to return to the territory of the European Union and to stay there for at least one year without entering an asylum procedure. This could be extended by two times six months. The protection would therefore last for a maximum of two years, but it seems to me, Secretary of State, that you have stressed the possibility of one more year. Could you confirm that? Is there any question of a year with the possibility of being extended twice six months and with an additional year? Secretary of State, I had several questions to ask you and I welcome your full explanation. Some questions have fallen because you answered them. We have received your request at the municipal level for the reception and the private or public reception places available. We were not able to answer all the more specific questions because we need more information, but in any case the approach is present. I think you have received a lot of positive attention in this context. At the level of family reception - many citizens are showing up to welcome Ukrainians - is there a reception procedure to ensure that these Ukrainian families or persons are welcomed in good conditions and are not accommodated in families where there may be a security problem for refugees? We know it exists. I'd like to know if any special attention was planned for the children who will come to our house and who had to leave their dad there. They have in mind that their father must wage war to defend his homeland. I am concerned about the care and psychological support of the children, so that everything can best be done for them at home. Do you have any special attention for Ukrainians who decide to go from home to fight in Ukraine? Are we already preparing their return, which we very much hope for, and the supervision of the return of those people who had a life like you and me here, but who are going to live a state of war and who will certainly return marked in one way or another. Thank you for listening to me, and thank you for the answers that you would like to give me. I will give the floor to Denis Ducrame and Kattrin Jadin who are with us at a distance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u14	Mr President, my connection is fragile and I will give up my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u15	Would you like me to take over?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u16	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Secretary of State for their efforts since last Thursday. Things have changed considerably, but unfortunately not in the way we wanted. The situation in Ukraine is getting worse, and that makes us sad. It must also be noted that things have moved considerably within international institutions such as the OSCE, the European Union, NATO or the General Assembly of the United Nations to condemn Russia's actions. Those decisions had to be taken. I have a thought for the citizens who are still in the country today, whether they are our citizens or all those people who are fighting day-to-day for their country to remain integrity. I would like to address three points. Firstly, as the Prime Minister said, Ukraine's application for membership of the European Union and Ursula von der Leyen's hand on the possibility of an accelerated procedure is an interesting momentum which may also allow us to look at two-speed integration from a new perspective. An exchange on this could take place. Secondly, we are alerting NATO forces, including in our country, and certainly following the threats made by President Putin on Friday. In that regard, it would be interesting to know, as far as possible, what steps would be taken in the coming days. Thirdly, as other colleagues have pointed out, with regard to cybersecurity, there is a huge challenge ahead of us, with the added urgency, to ensure the maintenance of our institutions, for the security of our nation. I hope that progress can be made quickly and that investments can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u17	Mr President, I shall not speak too long. I think I have about four minutes. I shall begin with a number of observations on the military situation and then look at the policy's attitude towards it. As far as the military situation is concerned, there is a new element. People feel that the people in Ukraine want to fight. A few weeks ago that was not assumed. This may explain why a number of European countries, including Belgium, were somewhat reluctant at the time to provide some crucial support. However, we are only in the conflict for seven days. With all the sympathy for the people who are fighting hard, as shown in videos on the social media, and having small victories, I fear this is not the overall picture. The overall picture is unfortunately that Russia is gaining ground day after day. I would now take the military view that the Russians will be present in rather large pieces of Ukraine by the end of March. My point is that the terrain will not be completely under their control, because the population will continue to fight there. All support and sympathy for that. Our legitimate supplies of arms will continue, leading to a kind of civil war between now and the end of March. That has a lot of consequences for what we ourselves have to do as a country. There will be additional questions to the Defense Department. Are we ready for that? Without reproach, because everything has to do with the resources available, I do not think we have given the impression that we have a terrifying army that everyone should be afraid of, so that we have to start walking hundreds of kilometres ahead because the Belgians are on their way. That doesn't seem to me to be the image the audience has when we look at the past few days. We'd rather see a different picture. We're gonna deliver helmets. Where are they? Do we even have helmets? Where are they? We're gonna deliver kitchens. Where are those kitchens? We're going to commit anti-tank weapons, but it's actually a double booking because they've already been promised to others. That global image is annoying for the nation. The conflict in Ukraine will continue in the coming years. So one has to make a choice, either we are a partner and give support, or we do not. Belgium must make a decision. Can the Department of Defense handle that? Can Belgium handle it economically? Is Belgium prepared to take the budgetary responsibility associated with it? Can't our country do that? Should it be delegated to Flanders or Europe? If one says that one is proud to be Belgian, that one is attached to our country and that Defence is a cornerstone of that, then I can only recommend that we do so and that we have a fully operational army. I'm afraid there's a feeling we don't have an army to be afraid of right now. The trade unions are doing something about that and I do not know if that is such a good idea. That must be resolved in all seriousness. Secondly, there is, of course, a clear link with energy policy. Belgium, Germany and all of Europe are in a blackmailable situation. The gas supplies are playing our military tricks. That may also explain why we have not been so strong and have not been able to deter Putin from taking action. Green energy must be at the heart of the future. In this area, I have similarities with Green. However, nuclear energy will also be an important factor. With both green energy and nuclear energy, we must be able to move towards a fossil-free environment. Such a fossil-free environment is wonderful for the environment and the planet, while energy independence at the same time ensures that we are no longer militaryly blackmailable. This will prevent what has happened now, namely that people react too late to stop Putin and the Russians. If I may give this to the government, it is important to be independent in the field of energy. I share Green's view that we need to be energy independent and I support all plans to develop green energy, but that will not be enough. It is not realistic that there will be enough green energy to achieve energy independence over the next 10 to 20 years. I think that there will also be about 11 gigawatts from nuclear power, a gigawatt per million inhabitants, given, among other things, the electrification of vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u18	I would like to thank the government for its commitment and its strategy of restraint and deterrent over the past few weeks. By the way, it is by no means true that she would no longer bet on de-escalation today. The statements made by Prime Minister De Croo and Minister Wilmès clearly show that the cease-fire and withdrawal of troops remain the first priorities and that this is called for in the consultations in the UN, but that a number of partners in the UN such as China are frustrated. If de-escalation is not possible, action must be taken to discourage it. One must continue to isolate Putin. That is the price of freedom that we want. The sanctions taken are unseen. The EU also acted very quickly and unanimously. That was also the question in plenary last week. How the EU acts today is unseen; the military taboo has also been broken. Both the EU and Belgium deliver far-reaching achievements. That doesn't mean we can't go too far either. I agree with the Prime Minister that we need to work towards closer partnership with Ukraine. We must not leave Montenegro, Serbia and (...) in the cold. That remains to be worked out in detail. Hence my question, Prime Minister, how do you see this partnership? The pragmatic attitude of NATO and the US is also striking. Clearly, they do not want to be dragged into the conflict. The European Union must not go that far either. I notice that Turkey wants to close the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea. How do you evaluate that lockdown? After all, this immediately drags a NATO partner country into a conflict. How does it react from the EU and NATO, if Turkey will indeed close the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles? I also wanted to thank the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration for his vigorous, efficient and firm commitment. He took the lead with the temporary protection measure. That is an important measure. We've never seen an exodus as fast as today. This means that we need to react quickly and efficiently. That has happened, for which I am grateful. How will the target group of the temporary protection measure be defined? What criteria will be used to apply the temporary protection measures? At the same time, it is a good thing that heart-warming solidarity was quickly captivated, with the slogan hashtag-free and with concrete measures, which are already a first step for the municipalities. Of course, new instructions will follow. I welcome the fact that you have carried on. It is very important that we help as many people as possible in this unprecedented crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u19	Mr. Chairman, I thank the government for its briefing, which provided us with an update. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all seen the images of this war, of which Vladimir Putin - I remind you - is the only culprit. These images are cold in the back, as we see torn families and a catastrophic situation. Here I would like to offer our support to the Ukrainian people in their resistance to this aggression and to our solidarity in this tragic period. Of course, the PTB unconditionally and severely condemns Russia's criminal war against Ukraine, which constitutes a violation of international law and the Charter of the United Nations. We call for an immediate ceasefire and withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine. Moreover, this war is not limited to military aggression. In the first 20 minutes of his speech, Mr Putin questioned the very existence of Ukraine as a nation. It even accuses the former Soviet Union of having created the Ukrainian state. In doing so, he uses the Tsarist register and his strategy of the "Great Russia" according to which the other peoples would not have a say. This concept is unacceptable and must be condemned with the utmost firmness. Ukraine is a sovereign nation and will remain a sovereign nation, and Mr Putin does not mind. The war also alerted international and Belgian peace movements. We fully subscribe to the call of the Belgian peace movement, which brings together several organizations such as Pax Christi, CNAPD, Greenpeace, Vrede, etc. I am also thinking of personalities who count as Pierre Galand, a former senator. We also heard the speech of Dominique de Villepin, former Minister of Foreign Affairs under Jacques Chirac or even that of Ségolène Royal, former Minister. These peaceful organisations and personalities call for a de-escalation and a return to the negotiating table to find a diplomatic solution, the only way to avoid a total war or even a nuclear conflict following the crazy statements of Mr Putin. It would be a disaster for all the peoples of Europe. We must do everything we can to avoid it. A conference for peace, security and cooperation in Europe must be convened as soon as possible, bringing together all parties around the table in order to ensure a de-escalation and diplomatic solution to the conflict. These negotiations can be held on the basis of the principles of the Final Act of the Helsinki Agreements in 1975 and the Paris Charter in 1990. This process must lead to a common security order for Europe. Prime Minister, ministers, what is the status of these negotiations? What are the possibilities put on the table, particularly with regard to the Helsinki Agreement and the Paris Charter in these negotiations? Then comes the issue of Ukrainian refugees. In recent days we have witnessed the emergence of solidarity - both at Belgian and European level - with Ukrainian refugees, and it is quite normal to have that solidarity, because solidarity has a role to play in the most difficult moments. In this case, the Ukrainian people need European peoples to help them cope with this horror. As a result, many Belgians opened their homes to offer refugees a warm home they had just been deprived of. In this respect, practical questions come from the communes: will the citizens who thus address their communes receive assistance for the accommodation of refugees? How will these refugees be properly monitored and guided in this context? At the same time, the current situation requires an organisation at European level, in addition to the emergency procedure for the distribution plan. Discussions have taken place on this issue. Mr Secretary of State, what has been the result of these discussions at the distribution level? Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u20	Dear Presidents, honourable members of the government, thank you for your massive presence at this exchange of views. I'm glad you're here. Together with Mr Vandenput, I will speak for my group. The situation is, of course, appalling. The images are horrible, the news is horrible. We can be angry and emotional. We must continue to condemn violence. However, politicians and diplomats must keep their heads cool and, above all, remain rational. Support for Ukraine, which is very important to us, both humanitarian and military, is the only right choice we can make. However, I do miss the diplomatic trail for a piece. I really call for the diplomatic path to continue, first and foremost through the European Union. Yesterday I saw the scenes in the European Parliament, undoubtedly a very emotional afternoon with all those speeches, but I think it would be more useful if the map of diplomatic talks were drawn. I think that the current talks between delegations, somewhere on the border between Belarus and Ukraine, could be better. I believe that the European Union should take the lead in this. Why do these negotiations not take place in Geneva, which still has a tradition? Brussels may be difficult, because it is the capital of the European Union, but it is also the capital of NATO. Vienna is also a possible location. I believe that the European Union has a leading role to play in diplomatic leadership. I particularly regret the political games in Belgium on arms and ammunition in terms of military support. Look, the decisions and deliveries weren't too early or too late. It is always dangerous to judge the facts of a few weeks ago with today's knowledge. That's what we saw in the corona crisis. In the light of this terrible crisis, such games are therefore inappropriate. The deliveries have been made. The Minister has been very clear about the machine guns. With regard to anti-tank weapons, I call on the government to maintain our own capacity as quickly as possible, by means of additional supplies, and to do even more, because capacity is now far below the level. We're gonna have to make a quick catch-up. That will also send out a clear signal to our military forces, and to whom we can count again today. In general, in the field of defence, I can say that the reality we are seeing today is not even the new reality. Get rid of naivety! I can see that many of my colleagues are finally aware of this. Away with Francis Fukuyama's dream images, no matter how unfortunate it may be, but this is the new reality. NATO is going through a unique period in its almost 73-year existence. We're seeing a powerful alliance. We should be glad that we are part of that and we should do even better to ensure that this membership is fully implemented. I see a lot of reality in this House. The Prime Minister was also very clear about Ukraine and its future relationship with the European Union. That must also be the case with the Balkans and Moldova. At European level, I see agreement on sanctions. The European Union must pay even more attention to Theodore Roosevelt's quote: "Speak softly but carry a big stick." We do more than whisper, and use clear language, but as far as that big stick is concerned, a lot of work remains to be done. It is currently American B52s who use strategic weapons to defend Europe's airspace. The American and British intelligence services were right. The tanks that provide assistance in the east are mainly American tanks or tanks purchased by American states. We need to learn from that. European military integration is unstoppable. There is still more to be done in the future. The task for the European Member States and for Belgium is clear: to invest more in defence. Germany has already made this clear and the debate is also raging in the Netherlands. We really need to face this new reality. This government has already done so in temporal non-suspecto. It's been about unseen investments since the fall of the Berlin Wall. The number of soldiers is increasing: we are going to 29,000 staff. For the first time since the fall of the wall, that rise is there. It's good to catch up on that historic backwardness. Almost everyone in this Chamber is responsible for this delay. In any case, we need even more capacity to deal with this new reality: further military integration with our partners, investing in offensive and defensive firepower, strengthening our cyber-capaction and intelligence services, and an urgent purchase of strategic capabilities at European level. That's the road we need to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u21	Dear Presidents, Prime Minister, members of the government, I would particularly like to talk about Ukrainian refugees. The images of the past few days remind me of the many Belgians who had to do the same more than 80 years ago. They then fled from the German ruler, they went to England and southern France. It is also our duty to take care of the Ukrainians, here, in our own region. We say that Afghan refugees are best received in their own region. Ukraine is in Europe, and we must do our utmost to ensure that it is taken care of. Mr Secretary of State, I understand that there will be a reception centre in Brussels where Ukrainian refugees will be screened and given limited shelter. From there they will be sent to the municipalities. Can you explain how that will happen? When are the first Ukrainian refugees expected in Belgium? In what way will local authorities be supported? Of course, we do our utmost to make homes available, own or via private individuals. Can European financial support also be expected? You will have a meeting with your European colleagues tomorrow. Will this be discussed, so that there will also be financial support, not only for Belgian municipalities but for many European cities and municipalities? My next question concerns screening at the external borders. That screening needs to be done properly. Does Frontex have a role to play in this? Or is it our people, from the DVZ, for example, who have to go there? How's that gonna happen? Do you expect a distribution plan to be agreed at European level tomorrow? If that is not agreed, how do you see a distribution per Member State? Finally, I have a question about coordination. There are a lot of people, in every municipality, who bring all kinds of things to the municipal sheds, which is very good. Will there be a Belgian coordination to take stock of everything and bring it to the right place in the country or region, in Poland or Romania? After all, I find it difficult to imagine that every municipality should do so alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I should start by repeating what I said in plenary last Thursday. There are no excuses at all for Putin's actions in Ukraine and there is no justification whatsoever for the aggression there. We see Putin acting without respect for life. He said he was only targeting military targets. The footage shows something else. Residents and civilians are bombed and innocent people die. 26 children would have been killed by heavy weapons, too. That's a terrible and barbaric war crime. It is a violation of international law and human rights. That is why we are pleased, dear members of the government, that Belgium has taken a side, in particular that of democratic values, the side of the right to self-determination and the side of a people fighting for their lives. I would therefore like to make three brief points in the debate, which are of interest to our group. First and foremost, we are pleased that Belgium is doing what it can to help Ukraine with the resources it currently has at its disposal. We also thank the Defense Department and our military for doing everything in their power to make that possible. It is good that we give the Ukrainian people the means to defend a home. It is also a good thing that the European Union responds vigorously and unanimously. Economic sanctions do not miss their impact. Economic sanctions and economic pressure have only one objective: to make the price for war so high that only a cease-fire is still an option. That is the message that the democratic world is giving loud and clear today. We hope that the ceasefire will be there soon. We also see that the European Member States have promised a lot of military and other aid in recent days. However, we believe that European coordination is necessary in order to prevent a bid and to adapt supply to demand. Military aid is also being sent out very openly. Perhaps there is no reason to let Russia look at our cards in this way, and we should also consider whether it should be communicated so openly. We must, of course, make it clear that we support this, but we should not give away the details. We also see that the European Union wants to be a defence union in the future. But we believe that this must be accompanied by a coordinated foreign policy. There is an urgent need for this too. It is already encouraging that the war is that of Vladimir Putin and not of the ordinary Russians, not of Russia. This is demonstrated by the videos of Russian soldiers who indicate that they do not understand why they should shoot at their Ukrainian brothers. This is demonstrated by the fact that Russian companies are openly starting to distance themselves from the war and by the courageous protests of ordinary Russians, who come every day on the street to protest against that terrible war. So there is hope in another way of cooperation between the European Union and Russia. We therefore need a political and diplomatic European strategy that can lead to lasting peace with the Russian people in the longer term. Even if it is not yet early in the conflict, is that under consideration? What is the strategy of Belgium, the EU and NATO and also Ukraine in the long term? What are the terms for us? What is the diplomatic strategy that we will follow? The Ukrainian people today bear the terrible consequences of the war. They're facing it. It is fantastic that our people want to put their hands up to help the refugees. At the same time, we must also ensure that there is help for those who have decided to stay there or who have no choice but to remain behind. Both deserve our support. It is essential that aid also reaches the disadvantaged population, from shelter at the Ukrainian border to the Kiev Children's Hospital. Our inhabitants will also feel the consequences of the war. The most direct effect will also be seen on our people's energy bills. They were already high, they only got higher on the day of Putin's raid. The crisis will require something from each of us. However, the crisis must not be an excuse to make a basic product such as heating a house priceless. It is therefore time for the government to speed up the introduction of 6% VAT on energy and gas. The crisis also shows how important it is to become energy independent. Exchangeing Russian gas for uranium from Kazakhstan makes little difference. The crisis calls for more than just that choice and only that debate. It also requires investments in wind, sun and insulation. It will be important to do so across all the governments of our country. Many Member States in the European Union are increasing above themselves today. We cannot and cannot remain behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we note that military doctrines that have been held for years are being thrown overboard at a rapid rate. Nothing is what it seems and everything is upside down and in the midst of all that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are now fleeing with all the misery that unfortunately comes with it. There might be millions of them. In the midst of this enormous chaos, they need protection and security, because as far as asylum and migration are concerned, too, nothing is as it seems. There too, the European Union and the Belgian Government have nothing less than an agreement with history to offer this protection and security together. A violent invasion in our immediate backyard, at our European borders, barely two countries separate us from Ukraine. Today we are the region, you rightly said, Mr Secretary of State. It is such an exceptional circumstance that requires something special to happen, both by the European Union and by Belgium. For example, it is unpublished that the European Temporary Protection Directive may be activated, and it is excellent that this government has taken the initiative. If you hadn't suggested it right away, Vooruit would have submitted it to you. We also ask you to take the lead in shaping the sustainable European asylum and migration policy of the future in these unpublished circumstances, by screening at the European borders and then distributing efforts in terms of reception, finance and thus more fairly with a full role for the Eastern European countries, which were often very reluctant to do so. Let us do everything we can to prevent Ukrainians from wandering around within Europe. Let us save those who continue to suffer and ensure security, clarity from the European borders and this in the interests of both Ukrainians and Member States, as well as future European asylum and migration policies. Exceptional circumstances require something extra to happen, and so does reception. Let us be clear: our reception capacity is currently at its limits. We fully support the 'place-free' campaign, where you now have a major role to play for cities and municipalities, and ask you to use this momentum to shape the Belgian asylum and migration policy of the future. It is very encouraging that so many cities and municipalities have already responded immediately to your call, but we would also like to warn you as we also hear from all sides that they have a lot of questions and uncertainties. This has to do, among other things, with the announced, but not adapted, framework for local reception initiatives and corresponding financial incentives, which the cities and municipalities have not heard from since that announcement. If you want to count on the goodwill of the municipalities, you will also have to provide an answer. They also have questions about the status of Ukrainians, about how they are supposed to guide them when they stay at home, about education, about psychological guidance or how they can prevent abuses or even abuse. How, for example, are host families screened? In order to make the campaign a success, you will therefore have to give the cities and municipalities maximum support and clarity. However, that will not happen on its own. It's great that so many citizens and cities and municipalities show their hearts. In order to be able to translate all this commitment into action, not only the federal government, but also the Flemish government and the other state governments must offer a clear framework. Together, in Belgium and in the European Union, we will ensure security and protection for Ukrainians, now and in the near future. Hopefully we will do so in a sustainable way for others. We wish you every success in all of this. Of course, you can also count on the support of Vooruit. Meanwhile, our thoughts are with the Ukrainians and with everyone who has to bear the terrible consequences of this war.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the government for taking the time of these discussions with Parliament. My thoughts go to the Ukrainian people, to their leaders, to their soldiers, who are now fiercely defending their freedom and their will to live in democracy in Europe. Some time ago, I regretted the hesitation, delays, modesty in European aid and Belgian aid. Today I am relieved, I am satisfied and I am proud to be European. Europe is at the rendezvous of its history. I also fully support the government's action. On behalf of my group, I can say that this action seems to me to be in line with what we need to do, even if there are still difficulties in terms of engagement, military, humanitarian support, reception of refugees or our participation in NATO. If this support is there today, it is again thanks to the bravery of a people who have shown that they would not let themselves be crushed and who are writing one of the most heroic pages of their history but perhaps also of the history of humanity at the beginning of the twenty-first century. I think what is going to happen at the United Nations today will be very important. We will see which countries choose freedom, democracy, law, multilateralism and who will give it up. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, you are doing well to be very active in this field because this page that will open at the United Nations tonight will be extremely important. There are a few questions and additions at the political level that I would like to bring to the discussion. I think it would be good to have a House resolution to support and frame the government's action. It must be an initiative of the House and not a political group. We must show our unity and I would like to see a resolution in the plenary next week in support of the action of the government, Belgium, Europe and NATO. On the other hand, although, unfortunately, there is not enough support for this accession, Ukraine has the right to join the European Union. That request must be granted. Of course, this cannot be done overnight. But there can be no second class Europeans. Ukraine is destined to belong to our European family. It is because she has turned to us, she has approached us, she is in line with our values that she is paying a terrible price today. It is therefore important that we be able to include it in our large family, as Ursula von der Leyen proposed. Minister of Defence, I understand your support for our forces deployed in the field. I am delighted that, through our soldiers, our government, our Parliament, the entire population, we can show that we are all on the bridge. Nevertheless, we must also be able to carry out our examination of conscience, as the Germans did. We have not provided our Defence with sufficient resources for many years. We remain the last or penultimate of the class in terms of the budget allocated to our Defence. It is also necessary to carry out this examination of conscience on the modesty of our means today. Indeed, it is important that we can, on the basis of this examination of conscience, build a true European Defence. I would also like to call for the acceleration of this European defence. For the first time, a genuine European defence act has been put forward by the Member States and the Commission. It is important that we be able to meet our destiny, the protection of our security and our freedom. It is important that we can act together. It is this unity that makes us today strong, determined to ensure that this bloodbath ends as quickly as possible. That is, of course, our objective. I am pleased that we can support the International Criminal Court (ICC) in the context of these war crimes allegedly committed in Ukraine, where particularly devastating weapons, such as thermobaric weapons, are used on civilian populations. Neighborhoods are bombarded. These are war crimes. The ICC goes further by talking about crimes against humanity. It is important that we can do justice to the victims of this conflict and designate Vladimir Putin as a war criminal. As far as our energy policy is concerned, I will not go back to the obvious importance of ensuring our strategic autonomy. Indeed, it seems to me difficult to give up energy, such as nuclear energy, which would allow us to be less dependent on Russia. I would just like to point out that there is today in France a debate on Engie's involvement in Russian interests and in particular in Nord Stream 2. Engie is our main energy partner here in Belgium, both for gas and for nuclear power. I do not hear that there is a debate in the head of government. I would like to see clarity on the support or participation of Engie in certain Russian projects. This would seem particularly unacceptable to me today in the context of what we are experiencing. With regard to cyber attacks and cyber-disinformation, Minister of Defence, I continue to believe that the perpetrator of the December 17 attack should be identified as soon as possible. All the information I'm taking tells me it's from Russia. It is obviously difficult to identify a very precise source. I'd like to know what's going on with this investigation. What is the state of the reconstruction of Defence software to date? I hear that work is still being done night and day to regain our full capacity. Does this have an impact on our operations? It seems to me important that we have specific information on this. You know Microsoft said yesterday through a communication that cyberattacks were war crimes. Does the government share this feeling? Cyberattacks are growing in power today around the world, and I think we should consider them as war crimes, as some private companies do. I would like the government to make a clearer statement on this issue. Of course, I welcome the reception of refugees in Belgium. In particular, I welcome the modalities that are planned. I can hear that we welcome them with dignity. I know that those people who are looking for temporary protection will want to return to their country very quickly and I hear the enthusiasm of the Belgian people who live up to the shock that we all feel in the face of the war in Ukraine. Here's most of my questions today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the Government for this exercise of transparency which is necessary vis-à-vis Parliament. I too am thinking of the victims of Mr Putin's aggression, of the courage of the Ukrainian people, of the courage of the Russians who oppose their regime and of all those who help the victims of this conflict, including in our defence and diplomacy. I, curiously, what happens to us, remind me at the beginning of the pandemic two years ago, of a world event of historical significance, which we immediately understand that it will beat the cards for a long time but which we do not master all the ins and outs because it contains a large part of unpredictable and therefore obliges us all, politicians, journalists, observers, both to a great determination and a certain humility. We share strong convictions about what needs to be done in the immediate future, but we do not know where we are going in the medium term because we need to evolve in an environment where we do not have all the data. That's the whole problem. There is a large unknown in the equation, which is Mr Putin's psychology and intentions. So, of course, we can only welcome and support what Belgium and Europe have done in recent days and I fully measure the strength and unprecedented nature of the decisions taken. Of course, what has been called the "awakening of Europe" is excellent news. But it's late. When we step back, it is since 2004 and the Orange Revolution that the Ukrainians knock at the door of NATO and the Union. Eighteen years when we say "no" politely, especially for fear of irritating Mr Putin. This may be the only thing that can be objectively reproached by Europeans and Westerners, not to have heard and taken seriously Ukraine's pressing, repeated and argued demands. For the rest, what is happening to us today is not the fault of the West. NATO is a defensive Alliance that has not attacked Russia! If the countries of the East knock massively at the door of NATO, it is precisely because they are the neighbours of a great country, unfortunately, led by an unpredictable, undemocratic man, possessing nuclear weapons, poisoning or imprisoning his opponents, hacking the elections of others and regularly invading his neighbours when he had the opportunity. I think the big problem ahead of us now is gearing and climbing. So far, we are reacting rationally to an adversary who no longer acts rationally. And this is a potentially dangerous cocktail, even if it is inevitable. We have placed the bar very high in terms of indignation and assistance to Ukraine. The question is whether we are going to maintain the level, if we are not going to step back. By helping the Ukrainians, we have just signed a moral contract with them, a contract of assistance which may not be as valuable as a membership of the Atlantic Alliance but which has a strong reach. We took sides without having entered the war, a little like the United States in 1940, when they refuelled Britain, which stood alone against Nazi Germany, with weapons or ammunition. We will not be able to back off this line and have opened the door on a dark room. Our country, like the rest of the European Union, will have to live up to this commitment and not weaken. I too would like to know how Belgium will support international investigations into alleged war crimes in Ukraine. Europeans have little choice: they must help Ukrainians in all possible ways. Yes, of course, we must continue to be firm on economic sanctions. The energy issue will have to be added. I will not relaunch the nuclear debate here, because we will soon have other opportunities to do so. Nevertheless, what the current crisis shows us is that we absolutely need energy independence at European level. The European Union must – for example, through the pooling of its renewable and nuclear resources – become completely independent and no longer be exposed. Yes, we must regain military credibility. We are no longer used to considering war, we do not want to pay the price of sending our sons and daughters to the front to defend ourselves, but this relative tranquillity has a price: our too great dependence on our American allies. The Trump Presidency has shown us that the wind can quickly turn. Europeans must regain control of their defence and build a European defence pillar within NATO. Does the government share this feeling? Yes, without weakening, the European Union must welcome all asylum seekers fleeing the fight in Ukraine. I am pleased, Mr Secretary of State, to hear that the Temporary Protection Directive is activated, while regretting that we did not do so in 2015 when other victims – and this is not the least of the ironies – of Mr Putin, by Bashar al-Assad interposed, the Syrians, were knocking at our doors. In this case, Secretary of State, the number does not change the case. I know that Belgium is present. Like you and many others, all of us are overwhelmed with spontaneous proposals for help. I also know that the municipalities are asking to get involved in a collaboration with the federal state. A very clear communication to them and to the citizens is essential. Is a mechanism for proportional distribution between European countries envisaged? I have not heard you on this subject, but I know very well that this is not provided for in the directive in question. However, in fact, this may arise. The Ukrainians must be rescued, but also the many foreign nationals, particularly Africans, who were present there. It is important for the Union to be at the forefront of its values. Anyone fleeing Ukraine must be able to do so. I take note, Mr Secretary of State, of your commitment in this area and of your doubts about some evidence of discrimination on the basis of skin colour. Nevertheless, they are very numerous, corroborated and unbearable. I therefore count on Belgium to remind the Council of European Ministers that no discrimination between refugees at the borders of the European Union can be accepted. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of this will lead us in the future to pay a price that will upset our vision of the world. This time force us decisively to get out of our comfort zone. But doubt is not allowed: we have in front of us a powerful dictatorship that will stop only in the face of the determination that will be opposed to it. The date of 24 February 2022 will remain in history as the day when Europe, irremediably, was forced to abandon its role as a spectator of the world, in which it has been caulked since the end of the Second World War. The rest is in our hands. Thank you. Peter Buysrogge, President: Colleagues, I think everyone who wished to express themselves could have done so. I am therefore happy to give the floor to the Prime Minister and the other members of the government to provide the necessary answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the interesting exchange of views so far. Let me start with a general point. The only solution that will ever be found in Ukraine will eventually be a diplomatic solution. In order to reach a diplomatic solution, we must, of course, ensure that the violence stops as soon as possible. In the end, there will only be a solution if one speaks to one another. That has always been the position of our country and of the European Union. The European Union and NATO have always behaved in a very predictable way. We have been very clear about our intentions and the actions we have taken have always been announced in advance. We have also made it clear that there is no threat from our country towards Russia, but that we do want the violence in Ukraine to stop and support Ukraine in the right to defend itself, which is enshrined in international law. Ukraine has the right to maintain its sovereignty and territorial integrity. It has always been very clear that we support Ukraine in this. At difficult times, cold-bloodedness is effectively a very important feature. Our country has always shown this and will continue to do so. I come back to some of the issues that have been highlighted. First, with regard to the delivery of equipment and weapons to Ukraine, such as rifles, it has always been clear that deliveries included ammunition. I don't know where the rumor came from that the weapons would be delivered without ammunition. We have always been clear on this point. With respect to the other elements that have been provided, it has always been clear that these were elements that we could provide without having a destabilizing effect on Defence's short- and medium-term operations. As far as the fuel is concerned, logistics is all ready. The difficulty is getting the energy hubs organized on the ground, at the border with Ukraine. One can take the fuel there, but that fuel must then be taken over in a certain way so that it can be transported further. We are actually ready today, but there is still a difficulty because at the same time there are a lot of goods coming. Then I'll come to the defense's bet. The Minister will certainly go into this in more detail. Raising the defence budget in the coming years is a choice that we have made in the government at a rate of non-suspecto. It was part of the coalition agreement. The decision to spend additional 10 billion in the coming years has already been taken a few weeks ago. I believe that today it has been shown that this was the right decision. We see that a number of other countries are making a similar decision today. Someone has asked a specific question about the Bosphorus, the Dardanelles and Turkey's attitude. Turkey's attitude on this issue is a very correct one. The Montreux Convention clearly states that at times of conflict, the passage of the Bosphorus is limited to the warships that have their homes in the Black Sea. It is therefore logical that Turkey should take very strict care of this, without having to interpret it as an aggressive act of NATO. However, I would like to talk about an element that caused me to frown on the eyebrows, namely the way in which some people talk about defence. I do not share their criticism, nor do I share it internationally. I see above all that there is a great deal of appreciation for the international role played by the defence industry. We have been active in the Baltic States for a total of 17 years. I hear a great deal of appreciation for the role we play there, for the professionalism we demonstrate and for our will to intervene. In my conversation with the Romanian President, I heard exactly the same thing. Our defense is seen as a defence that is professional and reactive and intervenes in the right way. I think some of us here are a little scornful about our defense. I absolutely don't share their opinion. What I think is perhaps less important than the appreciation we receive internationally for the role we play. As regards the economic aspect and the reactions that are being prepared, we do not yet have any indication of measures taken on the Russian side. What is important for us is that the European Commission is developing a solidarity mechanism to ensure that, while some countries are far more affected than others, there is a mechanism to correct this. In Belgium, as I said, I will hold a meeting this evening with the Ministers-Presidents to coordinate this preparation. But we are in preparation for something that is not yet decided. We are upstream, but we understand that at a time when counter-sanctions may come, we must be able to react quickly. I was clear in my introduction about the EU partnership versus membership. There is now a reflection on how things should look right. I have had the opportunity to discuss this with the President of the European Council on a number of occasions. We need to get out of here quickly with a plan of action. Moreover, this plan of action applies to all those countries which are looking at Europe with a great deal of urgency today. Indeed, we must quickly propose a new way of working very closely with them on a number of issues. A question has also been asked about cybersecurity. The Center for Cyber Security uses a defense strategy, in which it does everything it can to avoid the impact of cyber attacks. Cyber attacks cannot be avoided; they take place on a daily basis, but the approach at Belgian level, mainly from the Center for Cyber Security, is a purely defensive approach. Finally, I am very surprised at the message that more efforts need to be made to engage in dialogue with Russia, because it comes from parties that have done nothing but insult Russia in recent years, a country that today shows that it is diametrically opposed to everything we stand for, our values, our freedom and our democracy, a country that is actively working to destabilise Europe. If, for years, parties are calling for the peace pipe to be smoked with that country and now determine what it is capable of and what atrocities it is going to lead to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u27	Mr President, I will try to answer all the questions that have been asked. As far as the issue of the humanitarian corridor is concerned, this is something that has already been raised. If a humanitarian corridor is to be possible, we must know that agreement and coordination are essential, but we must also ensure that this is done in security conditions which are unfortunately not possible at the moment. With regard to the ICC, there is coordination that is taking place at this very moment. There were two types of requests, first a response to the request for strengthening or supporting, regardless of the ICC's functioning, regardless of the form it would take. Belgium is obviously in favour of this strengthening, since it is clearly going to be asked a lot more. It will obviously have to be seen how this will be materializable. Then we need to know that in order to send a situation to the ICC or to join an internationally organised request, we need a decision from the Council of Ministers. We're being solicited. We are in favour of moving forward. We wish and are committed under the coordination of the Prime Minister to make a decision today. As far as sanctions are concerned, they are intended a priori, at first in any case, to punish behaviour but above all to prevent it from occurring. We realized that they didn't have any effect. The question I am asked is whether, in the event that Russia stops its hostilities, we will lift all sanctions. First of all, I cannot prejudge all the decisions that will be taken at the international level on this subject, but I can give you my point of view a priori. The outright cessation of hostilities without any other form of condition, regardless of the conditions under which it occurs, is a little light to lay off and lift all sanctions. On the other hand, it is true that all sanctions are scalable. This is the whole intelligence of the approach, trying at the same time to change and modify a behavior with this modularity that was possible! Don't forget that all this must be done with everyone's agreement! A question was asked about the presence of our consul in Moldova, who goes to the border post if necessary. It does, of course, do so if requests are made. Of course, we remain attentive to the security situation. Perhaps it is worth recalling today what I said yesterday at the press conference. In such a crisis, we are a team: at European level, within NATO and this government. We are also one with this Parliament, and that is fundamental, as well as through the various services. We've talked a lot about the defense. There are also the services in charge of all migration issues, and then also the Foreign Affairs which, since the first day, are standing and present in Kiev – much longer than others – taking important personal risks in order to continue to deal with the situation of Belgians. It is important to recall their courage and professionalism. As regards the question on the European Peace Facility, an amount of EUR 450 million is foreseen for lethal military equipment and EUR 50 million for non-letal military equipment. The aim is to pay back the costs of the Member States when they supply the different materials. The costs will be reimbursed after an analysis by a committee to verify that all the conditions are met. This system shall apply with retroactive effect from 1 January. As far as Belarus is concerned, the information we have is contradictory. The official information given by Belarus – if we have to do with a credible interlocutor – speaks of alerting and a presence in areas of concentration close to the Ukrainian border. It is certain that Belarus is used by Russia to attack Ukraine. As such, Europe has decided to further sanction Belarus in the context of the Russian attack on Ukraine. There was a question about China. China calls for dialogue and negotiations to reduce tensions, but has not condemned Russia and refuses to talk about a Russian invasion. It also rejects the sanctions imposed by the United States, the UK, the EU and others against Russia. For China, it is a search for an impossible balance between different interests: its own economic interests vis-à-vis Europe, the United States, but also Russia, the strategic partnership they want to build with Russia, the traditional claim to the principle of territorial integrity and non-interference that we know in another situation. It's not always clear where they'll go. What we know is that China has not vetoed the Security Council, and that is an important signal. We also know that the Chinese press represents the Russian narrative alongside the official line of Beijing. So we also see a certain direction there. Yesterday there was also diplomatic contact between the Chinese and the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, where Beijing reportedly deplored the violence of the conflict and expressed concern about the damage to the civilian population. There were also questions about Taiwan. It is known that, for some time, Beijing has increased pressure on Taipei, notably by multiplying air incursions into what is known as the "Taiwan Air Defence Identification Zone". On the day of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, nine Chinese aircraft entered it. It is true that we are far from the peak of 23 January, where there were 39 incursions, but the timetable is quite special, and you think we are obviously keeping an eye on all these questions. The question of the position on Turkey was answered by the Prime Minister. Another question related to energy. An extraordinary Energy Council was held this Monday. The issue of security of energy supply, changes in energy prices and assistance to Ukraine were discussed. It was Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten who represented us, and Belgium called for a coordinated freeze on energy prices at European level. In this regard, the ball is now in the hands of the European Commission, which will be able to adapt its toolbox. In any case, that is what we want her to do. This does not prevent us, at the level of government, as set out in our agreements, from taking into account the current situation at the international level. I have two more points to address. I've told you about the negotiations – or rather the discussions – that are taking place right now, or that took place a few days ago (time disappears...) between Kiev and Moscow. Of course, we want them to bear fruit and lead to a ceasefire. As has been said, diplomacy is the only way to a normalized situation, and I think that the path will be extremely long, we must not be mistaken. I would also like to underline France's constant efforts in this diplomatic path, which continues to keep the channels open. All avenues are considered in all possible fora, but, of course, there must be a will to succeed. I am saying this because I am hearing here references to the Helsinki Charter or the Paris Charter, which are obviously the founding texts of the Organization for Security and Coordination in Europe (OSCE). The OSCE is a forum in which we have discussed repeatedly with Russian interlocutors to try to understand positions and to make ours understood, and we still see that, despite everything, Russia has made the choice of confrontation. With regard to the defence cyberattack, an investigation is under way within the defence cyberattack. Yesterday, I received a letter from the Minister of Defence asking to initiate the diplomatic award procedure. Indeed, you know that there are procedures that include foreign affairs. This process of diplomatic attribution takes place in several phases. First, there is the initiation of the procedure with the request of one of the permanent members of the National Security Council, which has been done. Then there is a technical assessment of responsibility for malicious activity. A report drawn up by the competent departments will be sent to me. We will then make an opinion. It must be understood that this is a decision that must be taken in a collegial manner by the National Security Council. Now I have to leave you for a few minutes. Indeed, as I said, the exercise of overseas in order to obtain a vote in favour of the United Nations is complete. So I have a phone appointment. I'll come back to you as soon as it's finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u28	A lot of questions have been asked about our detachment. Is he ready? Yes. I have complete confidence both in his state of readiness and in his professionalism. Its members underwent extensive training throughout 2021 and completed certification. They are ready to be deployed since January 2022 and, I would like to point out from the outset, with all the equipment necessary for their operationality and with all the equipment necessary to protect them. I think that already responds to one of your concerns. Be aware that this concern is mine, too. When we send troops to theatres of operation, it is our responsibility to ensure that they are properly equipped and that they have all the means to ensure their own safety, and that is the case. I have already said this in my speech, but I will repeat it as there have been questions. At the element and vehicle level, some were in different units. We had to gather in March all the vehicles ready for deployment. Everything is now gathered and our staff will leave in the next few days. What mission? A protection mission, a deterrent mission within NATO's borders. It is a Franco-Belgian battalion under NATO military command. The military command resides in the SACEUR - NATO's rapid reaction force is activated. How long? We're talking three to six months a priori. We will see how the situation evolves. What about the future? It is precisely the evolution of the situation that will tell us. Various avenues are now being explored at NATO and European Union level. There are discussions about strengthening or not strengthening the east flank. It is still under discussion and in the immediate future, it is this mission within the framework of the VJTF (Very High Readiness Joint Task Force) that we are carrying out. We will then see if there is a need to strengthen it. On the other hand, still in relation to this rapid reaction force, if the situation degenerates, we still have forces of several hundred military personnel and capabilities that can be activated, again by NATO, in the context of the crisis that is before us. Will they intervene in Ukraine? I think I've already made this clear. No. It is NATO's rapid reaction force. The aim is to deploy within NATO's borders. I think no one here wants the Third World War, and no one wants a direct confrontation with Russia. On the other hand, each of us wants to protect our countries from any threat. When one speaks of an army, and an army that does not have a sufficient level, the Prime Minister replied; but already, one would have to see what one compares with. We can talk about the Belgian army as we can talk about our country. If we compare the German army's budget with the Belgian army's budget, the German army's budget is 54 billion, and the Belgian army's budget is about 5 billion. Already there, the ratio is 1 to 10. When we talk about additional resources of 10 billion on the one hand and 100 billion on the other, somewhere, the ratio is the same. Beyond that, I heard you, Mr Bogaert, talking about an army that doesn't scare. As far as I'm concerned, I prefer an army that we trust, rather than an army that scares us. Because the army, it's there first to protect, to deter, and to ensure our safety. The Prime Minister said: we are recognized for the quality of our men, despite the modest size of our country and our army. I think that for his mission, that is to say an army in which the people have confidence and in which the Allies and partners have confidence, it really responds present. In terms of delivery, I said, most of the weapons, along with ammunition, were transported to the borders of Ukraine. There are still a few weapons left, which will leave soon. These weapons and ammunition we are talking about have indeed been taken from the surplus and available stockpiles of Defence. Is there any possibility of going further? No. At the Defence level, we now need to keep enough equipment to ensure our deployments and security. As far as the budget is concerned, I made a little reference to it. But you know, I'm not a fetishist; I'm not going to stop at a percentage or a figure. What matters is to be pragmatic. And above all, what is it to make of this budget? As has been said, we have decided to increase this budget by more than 10 billion, and I thank my colleagues for supporting me in this direction. The process started a year ago, as there was this update of the Strategic Vision with first a reflection on the threat, then capacity by capacity. What do we want to do? First of all, we want to restore a certain balance to the capabilities purchased in the past and to the staff that were lacking. So it's recruitment, and as you know, we're in the middle of recruiting: 10,000 soldiers over four years. It's also investing in dual capabilities. It has been repeated enough when there have been crises in the national territory, not least at the level of floods but also for the covid: more logistical resources would have been needed. Today we see the importance of the logistical elements for the deployment that is taking place in the coming days. It therefore has all its meaning and all its interest. The Medical Component, cyber, we talked about at length here, it's part of the planned investments and what we have an extra budget for. Should we go further? We'll see about it. We will always start by investing with the means that have been given to us. Of course we must follow the geopolitical situation! Today we see the importance of a Defence that protects. Look what's going on on the east side. Look at what happened in other regions and all the implications for our people. We talked about the price of energy. We see the people who line up for fuel. Yes, that's the geopolitical situation; that's what's happening there. This has a direct impact. Beyond what is happening and which is terrible for the Ukrainian population, it has a direct impact on us too. When we had the attacks, we also knew why Defence needed to be present to fight terrorism in some areas. Even today, it shows its full interest in having an effective defence and in which we invest - which I have unfortunately not known - but my challenge is enormous: to rebuild the Defence and I am pleased to raise it. On the cyber level, Defence is obviously on an enhanced alert regarding cyber threats. You know that as a result of the December attack, steps have been taken to strengthen the protection of our systems. We remain vigilant in this regard. Of course, military installations are subject to vigilant protection today, and this must be monitored from time to time. There is no indication at this stage of a threat to our facilities. As regards the award procedure, Ms Wilmès replied. I sent the mail not yesterday but we started the award procedure. It takes a while. Is that why we don't work? No, our intelligence service has been working since this attack took place to make the report that will then be presented, as indicated by Minister Wilmès. Mr Dallemagne, I have already told you this Sunday on the RTL platform: are you Mrs Irma of the European intelligence services? Indeed, you have such certainty. Seriously, I'm telling you with a little humor. You announce this as if you knew because you spoke to Peter, Paul or James who would have revealed things to you. There are very few people who do this analysis. I have already said: be careful! You cannot now designate the person responsible for this attack. Be careful, please! As far as the nuclear speech is concerned, it is clear that it is not an anomalous announcement, but it is not, in our view, an abnormal speech today. It is a military posture that Russia takes. You have to be careful about it. It is the speech that is a bit of a defensive speech with as an indication: "We have the nuclear weapon and if you, NATO, if you, the United States attack, we can retaliate." At this stage, in any case, these are indications that go more in this direction, but, of course, each threat must be taken seriously. I obviously share the need for a broader analysis and debate on Russian influence in different parts of the world. We saw it and we talked about it in the Defence Committee a short time ago: our military detachment was not deploying to Mali. Of course we see this Russian presence, both in Mali - the East side, I don't even talk about it - and in different parts of the world. So it's really worth looking at this issue. Our services are, of course, following this situation closely, but it deserves our utmost attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the many comments and questions. I think it is particularly important that we know what we are talking about, because the citizens need the right information. After all, it happens very quickly. We are in the process of providing specific reception for persons outside the asylum procedure. It is important, on the one hand, that we act quickly and, on the other hand, that we get the right information to the people as quickly as possible. The combination of those two is important. You're all people's representatives. It is particularly important that you, as ambassadors, make clear exactly what we are doing and what we are not doing. I repeat the philosophy. The starting point is the emergency shelter organised in Brussels, with the registration of persons and control through all possible systems that need to be checked. If the mechanism is set in motion at European level, it will automatically be granted the right of residence. The federal government could then theoretically say that it has provided residence and that the housing is for the regions. That is not what we want to do, on the contrary. We want to work together. I notice the same with the regions. There too there is the will to work together and look beyond the division of powers. The intermediate link that we are now trying to make possible with the municipalities and the regions between the emergency shelter in Brussels and housing throughout the territory is crisis housing. For this we call on the municipalities. These include premises used for other activities, such as sports halls, youth clubs and vacant buildings, as well as private places. Please don't say that people are supposed to be taken in for a year from someone who signs up for that. Please do not ask that question again, because that is not the intention. It is about crisis relief, the buffer between the emergency shelter in Brussels and the final housing to which every Ukrainian is entitled. Because we know that the regions are faced with certain housing difficulties, which are perfectly understandable, we are providing a buffer to help people get into crisis housing in the interim period. This must be clear to everyone, but even the ambiguity that some might make possible does not cause people to dissolidate themselves. On the contrary, solidarity is more present than ever. Questions have been asked about coordination with the municipalities and the regions. The IMC has already come together and there was very good cooperation. In the short term, we will meet again to discuss the next steps. The architecture needs to be worked out, to determine who does what. The Crisis Centre will play a very important role, as it will coordinate. This involves answering questions from the population and the architecture between municipalities, regions and the federal level. All these aspects must, of course, be taken into account in the architecture that is to come. It will only succeed if everyone is of good will. For the umpteenth time, I stress that everyone is effective in good will at this time, because it is also the truth. Fortunately, the Ukrainians can use it. I have been asked questions about future migration policy. It is certain that this can be a decisive moment for the European Union, but we must realize that a Member State cannot achieve this on its own. That is why we must cooperate and base a European migration policy on which to agree. Otherwise, we will continue to live through the problems we face today. I will not divulge the country's name, but at a conference I attended in Vienna, the representative of an Eastern European country said that he understood – in the wake of the potential crisis – the question of a European migration policy. Does that mean that tomorrow we are going to launch the Migration Pact? Of course not. However, we can hope that, together, we will see the need for good coordination for a future migration policy. What will the Council decide? It's hard to know. We'll see him tomorrow. If he decides not to vote for this directive, I must make it clear that Belgium will look at what it can do to answer this question which is not yet a question. In the event of European inaction, we cannot wait and do nothing. It's up to us. With regard to the sharing mechanism, the question does not yet arise. Solidarity in Eastern Europe is enormous. Poland had announced that it was ready to host a million refugees, just like Hungary. Of course, if four million people flee their country, pressure will be exerted everywhere. We will need to see how to coordinate our initiatives at European level. That is why, last week, I insisted with Ylva Johansson on the need for European involvement. This is where Frontex and the European Union Agency for Asylum must play a role in coordinating our actions. Otherwise, this will not happen under the best conditions. With regard to Russian humanitarian visas, when it is claimed that "Russians are not welcome", it is a pity that they did not read the press release correctly. It was clearly stated, and it is very important to me, that the Russians who are fighting Putin and whose political conception is totally different from that of the Russian political world at the moment must be protected. The European Union and Belgium have a role to play. Yes, of course, I too, with my discretion, if we have to play the role, I will gladly play it because we must help those who fight for our democracy, for our freedom and our living together, as we see, and as many Russians see as well. It is awaiting how much crisis housing we will have at our disposal. I can only say that the day before yesterday a letter was sent to all the municipalities through the governors and that after less than twelve hours more than 100 municipalities had already responded positively. That does indicate that there is a very great willingness. Screening guarantees were also requested that the parties concerned were indeed from Ukraine. Again, for those who are registered in Bordet, a screening will take place there. It must be clear who it is, where it comes from, and all other aspects which are obviously part of a proper registration and which are of great importance. With regard to social surveys of individuals or the procedures to be followed, I repeat that an architecture must be built in which the crisis centre will play an important role. There is an inter-federal consultation that continues to develop the stages every day. In this regard, the role that commons and regions can and will play should not be underestimated in order to ensure that this is done in the best possible way and to avoid certain excesses. Secondly, general solidarity should not be underestimated. In Poland, for example, some people display signs to invite refugees to their homes. Is there a check? Somewhere yes, but there is above all the hope that people want to be supportive and do what is necessary. They want to believe in the fact that the human being is there to help. Of course, checks will have to be carried out at the level of the regions and the communes. At the federal level, we will do what is necessary. For children, there will be psychological support. Persons who have a temporary residence permit in Belgium will enjoy social rights like the others. We'll have to see how we organize things. The ICD will play an important role in seeing what the federal, the Regions and the municipalities can do in relation to well-being and mental health. With regard to the Belgo-Ukrainians who leave Belgium to go to Ukraine, I would point out that if we speak of Belgians who have Ukrainian roots, that does not fall within my competence. My jurisdiction is limited to non-Belgians and which non-Belgian has access to the territory or not. With regard to the assistance of the communes, it is important to help the communes and to organise things. I repeat that everyone has a role to play. The monitoring of persons will also be carried out at several political levels. Compared to the distribution in Belgium, initially we wanted to rely on the proposals for assistance from the citizens. Depending on the scale of this wave of solidarity, we will see whether a mechanism should be put in place. Indeed, for me, the most important thing was not to block the momentum of solidarity by immediately establishing a principle of duties and obligations and by providing for a mechanism. I was pleasantly surprised to hear that there is unconditional support for Europe, including from the PTB Group. I assume that this message will be sent to your colleagues in the European Parliament. Registration and dispatching are carried out thanks to cooperation between the federal and regional levels with the municipalities. In principle, the dispatching is done by Fedasil. The municipalities shall communicate the information on their available capabilities to the crisis centre. The crisis center coordinates all that data and Fedasil can then arrange the dispatching. We're still working on the architecture of that plan. Yesterday, at the IMC, the regions stressed that they too want to play a role, to help and to help ensure proper dispatching. I have told you how it is happening now, but of course we are always looking, in good cooperation with the regions, at how we can support things even better. The question raised by the Open VLD Group as to whether Europe will also support local authorities, regions or the federal level, I think is quite right. There will be another European Council tomorrow, which will discuss the European directive, whether or not it will be activated. I will then ask what financial support Europe can offer to the Eastern European countries, which are already making enormous efforts, and other countries such as Belgium, which are already doing so. Questions have been asked about a sustainable European asylum and migration policy, but I have already answered them in my reply to Mr Rigot. With the future of Belgian migration policy in mind, I found this very pertinent question because it concerns the division between the federal level and the regions and a correct transition from one stage to another. This could result in many new findings, which hopefully also bring migration policy and integration policy closer together. So I certainly see a lot of opportunities in that regard. I come to the question of Mr. De Smet concerning the non-activation of the Directive in 2015. This directive was created in 2001 at the time of the civil war in the former Yugoslavia. There were problems in Europe with the rapid migration of people. The mechanism was activated by Turkey in 2015, with the creation of a special status for the Turks, with a reception in the region. It had been put in place quickly with fairly large figures. That was done correctly. Given the situation, it was important to activate it. Nor should we forget Europe's role in hosting in 2015. Many retain only the negative or the waves of populism that have been witnessed. But we must not forget the waves of solidarity and the positive work done by all European countries at the time. Unfortunately, as in many cases, the media only retain the negative. It is therefore important to highlight the positive developments in 2015. It is up to us to ensure that in 2022 the positive elements of this Ukrainian case are retained above all. You can, in any case, count on my commitment. Peter Buysrogge, President: I thank the members of the government for the explanation. Of course, Parliament has the last word. If there are any political groups that still wish to speak, I would ask you to limit your speech to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u30	Mr President, the material on the way will be fine. I'm glad the ammo was delivered. I had other information about that. I apologize if there were any misunderstandings about that. I hope there's enough ammo in there. I hope that the energy hub will still be regulated and the fuel will be refueled. I'll follow that up. Prime Minister, I did not receive an answer to a question about a meeting with FN Herstal. Has that taken place in the meantime? Has there been a review of whether additional stocks are possible, which can be accessed or purchased? You are right to make a point about European membership, including those in the Balkans and other candidate countries. This requires an interesting and fundamental discussion over the next few weeks. It has been proven that opening up NATO membership for 14 years makes countries very vulnerable. One makes all enemies very assertive to strike during the period in which one is not yet protected on the basis of Article 5. We made mistakes in that respect. Mrs. Dedonder, in your opinion, we do not need an army that has a copy, but an army that offers confidence. Yet we also need an army that scares off. Deterrence is one of the basic pillars of the NATO doctrine. So we need both. You said we made an extra investment. However, it is necessary to spend 2% of GDP on Defence. After all, we need heavy artillery, tanks and extra armored vehicles. 1.5% or 1.6% is therefore not enough. I hope that additional funding will be provided. Finally, the question of temporary protection. When a Ukrainian family signs up at the municipality, they have to go to Brussels. That's where they're being screened. People will be staying at the crisis center for one or two days. They need to get papers and a notification before they have to go to Brussels. Then they'll come back and we'll have to give them shelter. You're saying that's not for years. It's temporary. The private market is saturated, the social housing market is completely saturated. It won't be that easy to find shelter for that. You take your dreams there for a reality. We'll see how that goes. You don't care if they're men. What are we supposed to do when a Ukrainian family comes here, with a man who wasn't supposed to leave the country? Should we report that to the Justice Department or the police to make a PV for desertion? I don't want to make mistakes. We have an extradition treaty with Ukraine. What should we do with a deserter? I'd like instructions on that. I haven't heard anything about our Russian ambassador being deported. Some countries do. What is the Belgian Government's attitude in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u31	First of all, I would like to thank once again the government that is strong among us today. In all of your answers today, you have shown voluntarism and frankness, and that is significant. I believe that, in the troubled context that we know, it is essential that we retain this automatism to inform as much as possible and to have as much transparency as possible vis-à-vis Parliament. I thank you for this transparency within the limits, of course, of the security of ongoing operations. As several colleagues have pointed out, the images coming to us from Ukraine are very worrying, which is the least we can say. To say the least, they are appalling and I would like once again to express our full solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Because, of course, with this invasion, comes its lot of dead, wounded, fearful refugees who flee as they can, against the backdrop of besieged cities, bombardments on residential areas and the use of cluster munitions and vacuum bombs, according to what we have heard. In short, war in all that is dirty, more revolting and more filthy. The greatest urgency is therefore to obtain a ceasefire, and for that, Belgium and the European Union must support all possible diplomatic and political efforts. This is the first thing to do, and I am pleased to hear that this is the case today. In order to give all its chances to an exit from the political crisis, we must absolutely avoid, I believe military overbidding and escalation in warlike discourses. The example of the exit and subsequent withdrawal of the French Minister of the Economy is illustrative in this respect of everything that must not be done. It was pathetic and unwelcome. We must all be very cautious at the risk of seeing a new escalation that would lead us to a direct confrontation with Russia. In this case, we could only note at our expense that nuclear deterrence was a beautiful chimera and that without a real will to non-proliferation, decrease and ban these weapons, we can only have one way out that nobody here wants to experiment, and that no country is able to cash. So, the stakes that must be with us are that everyone stays calm. I think it's important. There can be no question of taking decisions that go beyond the framework of collective defence, and we must reassure the Belgian people on this point. Indeed, it is clear, to hear you, that we are always well in this context. Belgium has fulfilled its obligations to NATO. I would like to thank our soldiers who are participating, of course, and I very much hope that we will not have to do more in the days and weeks to come, because the situation will have calmed down. Finally, I think that we would have been in an even more worrying situation if the events had taken place under the previous US administration. In this case, I believe that nothing could have guaranteed us support across the Atlantic in the event of a direct confrontation with Vladimir Putin. Here is an additional reason to develop this very valuable tradition of diplomacy and peaceful conflict resolution and to maintain a coherent, solid and autonomous Europe of defence in the new security architecture that must and will emerge from this crisis. I'll sum it up. The extraordinary European unity that has been on display for a week seems to be a good opportunity to seize. To conclude. In line with the comments made by Mr Flahaut and others here, I would like to say that we tabled a resolution last week that would allow the government to feel supported in its action by, I hope, all the democrats in our country. So I invite all the groups to join. It would indeed be a strong symbol of unity in such a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u32	It is my turn to extend thanks on behalf of my group to the government, which was very well represented today. That is to say, all the interest and attention that is being paid to this important issue. Today's session allowed us to express our full and profound support for the graduated and modular action of the government – I think these are two very important adjectives – in connection with our partners. This support for government action is also a support for Ukrainians who will not be able to negotiate a good agreement if they find themselves in a position of weakness or extreme weakness on the ground. We also express this support through the resolution that we drafted - my colleague André Flahaut spoke about it. The stakes are obviously the lives on the ground and the sovereignty of a European State, but they are obviously far beyond. It's probably part of the architecture of tomorrow's world that's playing here. Also, diplomatic actions, economic actions, military actions to set a course of peace in accordance with international law. We will therefore remain very vigilant, very attentive and very supportive of the action you take on this issue on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u33	Thank you. Let me stress once again how solidarity and courage we feel that the Ukrainian people are resisting the aggressor Putin. It's very brave how young men take arms. What a difference with Syria and Afghanistan where the young men fled. We can only find a solution by talking and keeping our heads cool. In this respect, we agree with the Prime Minister. Some committee members, however, tweeted: "Time to finally hit back hard, shut down Moscow and its administration, shut down the defence apparatus." That's war language that doesn't make anyone any better, least of all the brave Ukrainian people. Mr. Prime Minister, you made a fervent plea in which you stated that each country has the right to defend its sovereignty and rights. How cynical then is it that you later rejected the praises of Hungary and Poland, the same countries you wanted to sanction and whose money you wanted to take away. You also said that Belgium is a reliable military partner. That was funny, wasn't it? Your party has been in power since 1999, and our defence apparatus has never been so bad. Weeks ago, when the brave Ukrainian people asked for military equipment, you did not answer them, nor did you help them. Trying to get back to work quickly doesn't really suggest a reliable partnership. You also have no knowledge of counter-sanctions. Yet none of you has said anything about our energy independence and whether the government would take action on this issue. My final words are addressed to Secretary of State Mahdi. Your call to citizens to provide care is an example of the failure of your own policies. You have no place at all to receive European refugees. You have no place to help a European sister people. Your government stands for the choice: will you continue to play 'Hotel Belgica' for the whole world or will you open your heart and our borders to a courageous European sister people in difficulty? I hope that the brave Ukrainians on the run can get a spot. However, there must be strict guarantees about the derogation that is now being made possible. It can only serve to bring Ukrainians, but not the whole world, here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, I am convinced of the great momentum of solidarity that has already emerged and will intensify. The population has offered to welcome people from Ukraine – women, children, men of all ages – but I really insist that we have the guarantees that these people will be accommodated in families where there will be no problems. I am a mayor and I know that in a population, there are everything, in the vast majority people of good faith and full of good intentions, but we also have people with a heavy criminal record. I wouldn't want those Ukrainians who leave hell to find themselves in hell at home. We cannot bear this responsibility, we must offer all the necessary guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u35	I would like to return briefly to the comparison with Germany in terms of budget. Of course, we all support the defence and support the defence personnel. It is certainly not the intention to look down on their performance by quoting this, quite the contrary. We want them to be able to do their job in optimum conditions, but the reasoning is that Germany is much bigger than Belgium. The EUR 100 billion that they are making extra available must be compared with the size of that country compared to Belgium, which is a ratio of about one seventh or one eighth. However, if you look more closely at the German figures, it can be seen that they provide an additional EUR 100 billion, but at a time of four years, i.e. 25 billion a year. If Belgium then makes an additional 1.4 billion per year available, that is a ratio of one to eighteen. That is not at all the ratio of one to seven or one to eight, which you might expect. I repeat my plea in all constructivity: I think that the army needs a great deal more resources than has been the case so far and has so far been thought beyond party boundaries. If we look at what will happen to the eastern flanks in the years to come, it will not really be about the resources that are now being provided. I'm sorry to have to name the elephant in the room, but it takes a multitude of what the government is currently planning to provide extra for the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u36	Mr President, I once again insist on the diplomatic path which is the only way to avoid a real catastrophe on our European continent. I hear many calls and statements in this direction. I hope that the second round of negotiations that is taking place today will produce results. Mr Secretary of State, you said that the PTB unconditionally supported Europe. When did I say that? I don't remember saying that in my speech. I said that we condemn the war unconditionally, but I did not mention Europe. I want to be precise. I wanted to correct this mistake of saying words that I did not say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic712x.u37	Mr President, I thank the government. I think it is important that this type of meeting be organised on a regular basis. I would like to appeal once again to the vote on a Parliament resolution to frame and support the government's action. I would like briefly to respond to the little humor of the Minister of Defence, who asked me to be careful in designating Russia as the author of the cyberattack. Of which act. Madam Minister, I would like to see an answer to Parliament's legitimate questions on this subject. This attack has been massive and still has consequences. However, you have not answered any of my questions about the current consequences, the impact of the operations, the level of knowledge we have today of the alleged perpetrator of this attack, the fact that we are in the process of doing so, the possible response, or the fact that Microsoft considers that some of these attacks may constitute war crimes, especially when they attack critical infrastructures such as those related to energy. I asked a lot of questions and, frankly, you didn't answer them. It is important to provide these responses. You contradicted, in her absence, the Minister for Foreign Affairs by stating that the letter did not reach you yesterday. When did this letter leave? It's been two and a half months since this attack took place and I hear that a mail would have left recently. You sent a request for an award procedure. I'll let you find out where the truth is. Anyway, it's important. Do you have any serious clues? Is this just the beginning of the procedure for the attribution of such an attack, which is extremely serious against Belgian Defence and which still has consequences at the moment? It is important that this issue be taken seriously. Of course, it is about our safety.
