ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u1	Allow me to begin by expressing my appreciation for the fact that the government has taken decisions both on renewable energy and on energy security. This is not always evident, especially in cases where a coalition with different parties has to make such decisions. Someone once formulated it very nicely: if one participates in the policy, this applies not only to policy parties, but to all parties - sometimes the nostalgia of one's youth dreams must be replaced by a common solution to the challenges facing the next generations. That's hard. I appreciate the fact that the Minister is available today to explain the decisions taken, summarised in the fine title 'Energy breakthrough'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my presentation is divided into two parts. First of all, I should like to explain the decision taken last Friday. It goes without saying in the explanatory statement to the parameters relating to the quantity of capacity to be purchased, which I mentioned a while ago that I will consult Parliament on this subject, in accordance with the resolution. I'll start with the power breach. Allow me first to outline the context, although perhaps it is already well known. I will also come back from two days in full on energy security, security of supply and the geopolitical situation with several members of the International Energy Agency. It cannot be stressed enough that Europe and, above all, our country are facing the biggest energy crisis ever. The war in Ukraine makes clear how dependent we are on energy from abroad. We import more than 90% of our energy into our country. This dependence creates a double vulnerability. We are vulnerable in terms of supply, as energy is used as a weapon under the threat of a supply shortage. In addition, we are vulnerable in terms of the price to be determined for energy, for which we pay war prices today. At the beginning of last Monday, the government adopted a whole package of measures with a direct impact to reduce the energy bill. This concerns a VAT reduction for gas and electricity and a reduction in excise duty on fuels at the pump. At the end of last week, as in an ideal pliers construction, the government also adopted a series of measures that would result in an unprecedented acceleration of the energy transition in the light of more energy independence, while at the same time ensuring supplies in all winters and in all scenarios. There is no doubt that the energy transition is a fact that is currently being worked on every day. No one's questioning that. It is not so much a story about the energy transition as it is about accelerating that energy transition. One of the conclusions at the end of the two meetings within the International Energy Agency was that it was necessary in the light of the war in Ukraine to accelerate our energy transition. So we have to move away from fossil fuels to turn to renewable energy. For our own country, this means more renewable energy and more electrification. Four things are important for wind at sea. First of all, for the Princess Elisabethzone, the date 2027 must be pushed forward again. Today, 2028 is pushed forward. It is our ambition to make every effort to bring that back to 2027. On the one hand there is the connection of the windmills, but on the other hand that is also a question of good and sound project management. Serious momentum must be maintained in what precedes the construction of the windmills, for example the geophysical studies that we have already discussed in this committee. Secondly, a repossession of the first zone is important. That is not new and has already been discussed in this committee. At the end of this year, we want a strategic vision for this. We will, of course, work on it in cooperation with the sector. I have already received proposals on this from the sector. So we want to put them into a strategic policy. The third point is essential. It has been decided to increase the capacity in the Princess Elisabeth zone to 3.5 gigawatts. This means a tripling of energy from wind turbines at sea. We are now explicitly looking for an additional 2 gigawatt, so a triple of current capacity. We will do this, on the one hand, by reclaiming the first zone and, on the other hand, by searching for new areas in the North Sea where electricity production is possible. We are doing this in the context of the revision of the Marine Spatial Plan. The final point concerning wind energy production at sea is cooperation with our neighbouring countries to accelerate the expansion of the wind grid at sea. It is our ambition that our country takes the lead in this and we are already quite far away from that. We have the Nemo Link, the best performing connector. There are also plans with Denmark. Of all the countries with which Denmark has concluded an agreement, Belgium is already the furthest. There is also the second link with the United Kingdom, the Nautilus. I have also been able to speak with Kwasi Kwarteng, my colleague from the United Kingdom, in the last two days. We have already made considerable progress in terms of our interconnection, both in terms of thinking and in terms of concrete projects. This leads us to take the lead in setting up, together with a number of countries, the vanguard for the development of the sea wind network. Wind on land is a regional and not a federal competence, but we do have a number of levers here, namely aviation and defence. Today 5.1 gigawatt is blocked due to exclusion zones, radars and technical rules. We have provided a budget so that we can support the Regions to unblock the capacity they want to use. It is one thing to speed up the energy transition, but it is another thing to ensure that everyone is with us and that it is accessible to everyone. That is why we place great emphasis on removing price barriers through a VAT reduction for solar panels, heat pumps and solar boilers. In addition, the measure on reduced VAT on demolition and reconstruction of a dwelling is extended. We also want to maximise the greening of our own buildings and SNCB stations. I now turn to green mobility, because independence is not only a matter of gas and electricity, but also of oil. Up to 30% of our oil comes from Russia today. We must also reduce this dependence. The International Energy Agency also adopted yesterday a ten-point plan to reduce dependence on oil. We have therefore taken a number of measures concerning green mobility, such as the greening of mopeds and light trucks, the boost for smart loading posts, which can help us in a different area, in particular flexibility and capacity. As part of the acceleration of the energy transition, we want to unblock a lot of gigawatts of energy. Thanks to the leverage measures we take at the federal level, we provide a lot of additional capacity. At the same time, by focusing on the measures I have just explained, electrification also goes up. This will reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, reduce CO2 emissions and reduce gas and oil spending to EUR 18 billion. In order to finance the measures, we are looking at the contribution of the nuclear operators to the overprofits of the nuclear power stations they share. That repartition contribution is a lot higher because of the high electricity prices and we will use them to finance the policy outlined. We also want to be fully committed to the energy transition fund and we want to cooperate with private companies. I am thinking, among other things, of loading stations at SNCB. This can be done through a public-private partnership. I am also thinking of the measures we are taking that are not price barriers. There are many other barriers, also in the market, such as upfront cash but also whether people have time to think about whether a heat pump is appropriate for their home. That is why we have a number of measures in the agreement to make it easier. One of them is an amendment to the Economic Law Code, where we want to review the provisions on consumer credit and tying to make it easier for energy suppliers to offer energy services. Let me be clear. Today, 200,000 new buildings have been built in our country, in Flanders alone. These are homes without heat pump, but they are sufficiently isolated and often also have renewable energy on the roof. So they are fully ready to switch to a heat pump. That investment choice was not made when building the house, because the heat pump was too expensive then and there was no business case for it. There is today. We want to boost that by reducing VAT. That's why there won't be a heat pump. It is not because it is easy to install a heat pump. Then it is important to find out who the partners are. That could be the energy suppliers, for example, who could offer their customers such a service. That is why I absolutely want to talk to them and to the producers of heat pumps so that we can ensure that this policy is also an effective success. At the same time one can also activate private resources, for example via the green bonds that are in the scaffolding anyway. This is a total package of nearly EUR 1.2 billion to accelerate the energy transition over the next few years and to work on our independence. This brings me seamlessly to our country's security of supply. In this respect, our country has been faced with a great standstill over the last 20 years. This has led us to have had to implement the CRM in time at a record rate. In recent times, we have faced a number of difficulties in this respect. We manage the case in the right way. Moreover, the situation has changed substantially since December 2021, in particular as a result of the war in Ukraine, which has led all European countries to review their strategy. Last weekend and last few days I spoke with my colleagues from Poland and Germany, who are also reviewing their energy policy, more specifically in the field of coal. A second point we are faced with is a serious situation of nuclear unavailability in France. Twenty percent of the nuclear capacity in France is not available. Moreover, the situation is more serious than the situation that was taken into account at the time of the identification of sensitivities under the CRM. You know the situation of the sensitivities in this area. However, we have been faced with new elements since December and we cannot ignore them. What has been announced in terms of availability, so the data we work with in the context of REMIT, do not correspond to the situation in practice. Finally, by speeding up the energy transition, we will also ensure faster electrification and thus increased electricity demand, leading to a need for additional capacity. This has led the government to decide last Friday to continue with the CRM, but also to keep an open eye on the lifetime extension of two gigawatts of nuclear capacity, namely Objective 4 and Tihange 3, for a period of 10 years. The government has decided to take the necessary steps to this end. The Prime Minister and I will conduct the negotiations with the nuclear operator. The outlines of these negotiations are clear. We wish to conclude these talks by early June. On the other hand, there can be no link between the waste file and the fees. Both the nuclear operator and the contributing company, Luminus, remain responsible for the decommissioning and management of the irradiated fuel and bear all the costs associated with it for the seven reactors. I make it quite clear that the Belgian authorities are not supposed to be an operator. With regard to the decommissioning and management of the irradiated fuel, the legislative text on nuclear commissions has now been finalised and has been placed on the government's agenda. We have received an opinion on this from the Council of State with few comments. As I explained earlier, this concerns the full repayment of loans, both for decommissioning and for the management of spent fuel. The text will be submitted to Parliament shortly. This also means, of course, that we will move forward with the discussion of the draft law on extending the life of nuclear power stations Objective 4 and Tihange 3 at first reading by the government. This will be a somewhat atypical reading, as the environmental impact report should then be launched. In addition - and perhaps this is somewhat illogical in the list - there is still a discussion with the European Commission on the approval of the CRM. That brings me seamlessly to the CRM. The CRM is our investment mechanism that monitors security of supply and guarantees supply. We have organised a first auction for the winter 2025-2026. Two capacities were selected, one of which was not authorised. On the basis of Elijah's report, we found that, even if there was an unauthorized capacity, other capacities are enforceable and that, even more so, there is no appeal against them. That allows us to conclude that the law on the allocation of additional capacity, which you have approved, will be fully implemented. The ministerial decision to instruct the allocation of capacity will be submitted to the government today. We have also decided to use the CRM even more as a tool to facilitate the energy transition. We will reduce the CO2 limits in the CRM so that less energy from gas plants and turbojets are included in the system. We are thus creating an incentive, so that this method of production can be replaced by clean technologies, always on the basis that there is no overcapacity and we are focusing on rapid greening. This brings me seamlessly to the decision we have to take on the CRM. Last year, on 30 March, I came to this committee with the same intention as today, in particular to discuss with you the parameters that will determine the volume that we will decide at the second auction of the CRM. As you know, CRM is an annual process to auction capabilities to ensure our security of supply within four years. This is always done on the basis of the reliability standard defined in the law, namely the LOLE of 3 hours. Since that second year, we have been entering a sort of operating regime. The timetable is set and each authority knows its role, its task. All processes and calculations have already been completed. We learned the lessons of the previous year, etc. Some parties are still getting used to it. It is enough to see some recent discussions in this committee. Perhaps some had hoped that some long-term discussions would be determined. All this proves to be insignificant in the face of a world that has changed a lot in the meantime: a war on the European continent, uncertain economic prospects due to the sharp rise in energy costs and, at the same time, a fight against climate change that we cannot afford to weaken, on the contrary. It is in such uncertain circumstances that a policy instrument such as the CRM, designed to provide security of our electricity supply, is very important. It has to go through as legally foreseen. That is why I think it is extremely important that I can share and discuss with you today the proposal for a decision on the auction parameters for the winter 2026-2027, not only because this is provided for in the July 2020 resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the step we are talking about is the run-up to the volume decision. That volume decision hasn't been made yet. I'll come to you before the decision is made. I would like to stress, however, that this is not about the means by which we should guarantee our security of supply in the winter of 2026-2027, but about what capacity is needed. I'd like to situate it in time. The CRM is an annual process and starts early, i.e. 1.5 years before the actual auction. I am not going through the whole process, but I would like to point out that in May last year Elijah consulted the public very extensively on data, scenarios, sensitivities and also on the method that would be used in the calculations. The debate on the use of the climate-years database is also part of this, in order to be fully compliant with European legislation in this area, in particular with regard to the different methodologies. This whole process of consultations, proposals, reports, opinions and decisions brings us to the point today, where I can propose the demand curve and other parameters for the auction, this year for the first part of the necessary volume for the winter 2026-2027. Last year was later, as you will remember, because we were still in transitional arrangements and had to be ready by 30 April. We had then foreseen in the law that there could be a delay. This year and all the following years will be in accordance with the law by 31 March, so by next week. Without losing time, I'd like to present the demand curve to you. You will notice through the presentation that there are certainly still aspects on which I would like to receive your feedback. Firstly, you see the demand curve with the proposed values on volume and price. As you can see, our proposal is that we set the maximum price at EUR 75 per kilowatt, as provided for in the resolution. This amount differs from the lower value proposed by the CREG. The reason for this is the advice of my administration. My administration has pointed out to me that the CREG did not make the calculation of the net CONE in accordance with the Royal Decree on Volume Methodology. With a correct calculation, a higher amount was obtained than stated in the resolution, in particular EUR 81. The CREG came out at 48 euros, my administration at 81 euros. That is why we have capped the maximum price at EUR 75 per kilowatt. In the previous auctions, we have seen that this has not been a problem and that there is no reason to change the price upwards either. That is, of course, the maximum price for multi-annual contracts. Then there is also the intermediate price cap for capacity that is contracted only for one year. We set it at 20 euros per kilowatt. The CREG points to a number of inconsistencies but does not suggest any other value. That is why we are maintaining the value proposed by Elijah, which corresponds to what we have stated in the parliamentary resolution. This is a point on which I would like to hear your reflection, ladies and gentlemen. You will also notice that the prices I am proposing here, EUR 20 and EUR 75, are not indexed, while our resolution did contain indexation. I would also like to hear your opinion on this. Then there is the obligation to pay back. We re-enter the repayment obligation as soon as the price on the daily market in Belgium is higher than the exercise price of 300 euros per megawatt hour. We therefore fully follow the advice of Elia and the CREG. An investigation is under way to further analyse the outcome of the previous auction, focusing on the modalities of the refund obligation and the exercise price and how they have had an impact on the offers. The preliminary conclusions of that study are currently being submitted for consultation on the FPS website. The deadline for the reactions is today. Therefore, the suggestions contained in that report for adjusting the way in which the exercise price is indexed cannot be taken into account at this stage. With the next slide I go deeper into the volume figures. On this slide you can see the volume distribution. The information is included in the CREG proposal, on the basis of which a certain volume is transferred in the T-4 auction, and thus also a volume transferred to the T-1 auction. You can see that the split between the two auctions is similar to the split we saw last year. In the first of the two columns you see the point A, which takes into account the correction factor, and in the second column you see the volume for points B and C. This is already known to you as the average electricity consumption in the event of a shortage, and we then add up a need for control power. I often use the image that when the water is on the lips, one still needs a swimming strap. Those are the balancing reserves. If there's a problem, we'll switch on the balancing reserves. That is why we add these volumes. Once we have lost a cartouche, it can of course no longer be used. For this reason, the volume has to be added. On the next line you will see the average non-supply energy in case of scarcity, the so-called unexpected energy not served. We'll subtract that volume. We accept that this capacity is not there, because it corresponds to our standard of reliability, the LOLE of three hours. If we accept that we do not have electricity for three hours in a statistically normal year, then of course we should not contract it either. Then we get to the ineligible capacity. The ineligible capacity is taken away from the volume to be auctioned. This is capacity that is already being supported and which we discussed very extensively last year. In response to the CREG proposal, Elijah proposed to correct that volume by 2 megawatts. It is this line, i.e. the ineligible capacity, which will be essential when we can soon have 2 gigawatts of nuclear capacity. I will finish the reasoning and come back to what the nuclear extension means for this scheme. The following lines are the volumes transferred to the T-1 auction, so the capacity reserved for the T-1 auction according to the law. That is the capacity that requires less than 200 hours of rotation per year. The volume used by the CREG for this was not entirely equal to the volume in the calibration report with some megawatts. That was probably a mistake taking over the numbers. Just like last year, a certain volume is reserved for foreign capacity. They will normally be able to participate in the T-4 auctions, but that is not yet on the table for this year either. European methodologies and agreements with neighbouring countries still need to be made. This volume is therefore also reserved for the T-1 auction. In the first auction capacity was also contracted for longer term. This is of course deducted from the capacity to be auctioned for the winter 2026-2027. It concerns capacity that received contracts in the first auction and for which the capacity contracts were signed. That is, of course, volume that has been contracted and that we do not have to contract back now, so that capacity is deducted. The CREG had proposed an increasing correction using the higher reduction factors, but this would result in a double counting and is not in line with the QB on volume methodology. As I said, the distribution between the two auctions of 75 %-25 % is the same as last year. Which brings me to another aspect. The CREG had sent me her proposal of demand curve. She had done an additional analysis in which she made a comparison between this year's demand curve and last year's. She identified differences which, according to her, could lead to an overestimate of the necessary capacity for the winter 2026-2027. When the CREG had forwarded its proposal to me, we then had a meeting on it, because the CREG was very concerned about it. The comment that the CREG wanted to share with me is that Elia did not provide the data requested by the CREG to explain these differences on the merits. That's why I encouraged both the CREG and Elijah to work together. You know that. I told the CREG that they should have information and I asked Elijah to provide it. In the weeks following the delivery of their report they have therefore consulted intensively and Elijah has also provided additional information. These data show that in particular the implementation of the new climate database and the higher demand in the winter simulations of 2026-2027 lead to a difference in the demand curve. It thus leads to a higher number of simultaneous scarcity situations between Belgium and its neighbouring countries, but they are shorter in duration. This brings us back to the discussion on how to deal with these climate years. I said in committee two weeks ago that there are three ways of doing this in ACER's methodology: the synthetic climate years, the weighted average of historical climate years and thirty climate years. We have opted for the first method of synthetic climate years. The METEO FRANCE database used for this purpose meets the requirements of the CREG to take climate change into account and is also fully compliant with European regulation. This was also confirmed by the CRM in the context of the approval of the CRM. This is referred to in the State aid notification. More scarcity situations, but shorter of duration. This means that this affects the reduction factors, the derating factors. That's the next slide. In order to have a level playing field, reduction factors by technology category are used. These are percentages, always less than or equal to 100 % of the nominal reference power. It is a statistical estimate of actual availability on scarcity moments. Last year we discussed this in detail. If there is a shortage, to what extent can one rely on a particular technology? If a piece was used to avoid a scarcity moment, then one can no longer use it at a scarcity moment. These reduction factors have changed dramatically in particular for storage technologies and demand management compared to last year, which has to do with the use of that other climate database. So there are still winter peaks and cold waves, but they are colder and heavier, which means that those technologies have a higher availability at those scarcity moments. This also has the beneficial effect that more of the required capacity for the winter of 2026-2027 can be completed with these technologies, which have now become more competitive than, for example, gas plants. The second year of the CRM should really put the CRM on track. Eventually, the CRM must come at full speed. The methodological improvements introduced to fully comply with European regulations lead to a clear improvement for demand management and storage projects. That's a good thing. They offer the necessary flexibility in the system if we accelerate the switch to renewable energy even more. The CRM thus presents itself as a fully-fledged, complementary tool in the energy transition. It stimulates investment in flexible alternatives such as storage and demand management while guaranteeing our security of supply. That's what it's about in the end. The security of supply, as I said, is not about how we complete it, but about how we achieve it. Two final comments. Quid the 2 GW of the nuclear? In the explanatory statement, I said that this government will take the necessary steps to allow the extension of life. This means that the 2 GW of the nuclear will be inserted into the CRM at some point. We have to ask ourselves how to deal with that already. One question might be why this is happening now, why by definition this volume decision should now be taken. There is a legal obligation to do so by 31 March at the latest. Let us not forget that CRM is the way to monitor and guarantee our security of supply. That's more than two GW nuclear. Failure to do so today would be a serious risk to the country's security of supply. We have to make sure that we contract the right volume at all times. The CRM is market-wide and technology-neutral. This means that we need to know how the business is evolving from all the players with an energy production plant that are active on the market today and in charge of supply, the law is the peak question and how to reach that peak demand. Only in this way can the market organise itself. At the same time, with the volume decision, we also give clarity to the market, in that if there is 2 gigawatt nuclear capacity available for that winter, we will add it to the non-ligible capacity, so that the demand curve also shifts and that there is no unnecessary or over-contracting. What does that mean for the new capacity? I would like to be a little ahead of you, because there will undoubtedly be a whole debate, just like last year. In response to the CREG's questions, Elijah himself estimated its impact on the new capacity, but I think we should keep in mind the previous auction. At the last auction, I was tempted to make a statement about the size of the new capacity we need to look for. But at auction, market dynamics play. The new contracted capacity is determined by the actual bidding behaviour. I've shown the reduction or derating factors. They will have an impact on the type of projects that are offered and that will be selected, as we saw at the first auction. In other words, it is actually impossible to make a preliminaries for the new capacity today. Of course, the availability of 2 gigawatt capacity also has an impact on this. Last Friday, a decision was taken on a comprehensive package which deals primarily with speeding up the energy transition and securing security of supply. We have a lively and ambitious exercise ahead of us. Last year was actually also a spicy and ambitious exercise, because we had to work with a totally impossible deadline, but it did succeed. This must be our mindset in the file: it is not because it is difficult that it is impossible, quite the contrary. Last year we succeeded because I could count on your feedback and availability and an atypical majority and opposition. In the same way, we are entering year two of our security of supply policy, a special year, in view of the war in Ukraine, where everyone faces exceptional circumstances and calls for extraordinary efforts from everyone. Everyone has responsibility, and as far as I'm concerned, let's get to work. We can do it and it's a good thing for our country. We can work on our independence and we will all benefit from it. I am now happy to listen to your questions and comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u3	You made the difference in the CRM file, during the previous legislature with Mr Wollants. Your achievements in that file are new milestones. I give the floor to your partner in crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u4	Mr President, I have the impression that my contribution to the development of the CRM is increasing every week. Yesterday, a minister even said I designed it. I think that is a harsh verdict, because the study firm PwC has been paid to do so. I will divide my speech into two parts, firstly, with my comments on the energy transition, and secondly, with my comments on the volume decision and everything related to it. With regard to the energy transition proposals, there was first of all a more comprehensive list of measures with a total cost of EUR 8 billion. A more limited list of measures with a cost of EUR 1 billion has been landed. Of this, EUR 673 million is borne by the State and the rest is charged to the private market. I am not surprised, and I also asked Minister De Sutter yesterday a question about this: the EUR 673 million almost coincides with the expected revenue from the nuclear taxes next year. If I add up the amounts, I'll get to that amount. It seems to me that the resources of the Energy Transition Fund are well included, while they should serve other objectives such as research and innovation. I believe that specific resources should be allocated to the proposed measures. This raises the question of to what extent the Energy Transition Fund will then be adjusted. In the past, some things became negotiable after a call, but now the call is organised by the government itself. How can we ensure that the EUR 20 million is used for the right purposes? That's important to me. In addition, several proposals come back that do not sound completely unknown to me. In recent years, I have mainly asked skeyes questions about the thresholds that were possible there. I see that coming back now. There are very high expectations of this. At the moment there is about 2.6 gigawatt of windmills on land. Eliminating the thresholds would increase this by 1.5 gigawatt in the short term. That seems to me quite considerable, especially since the people at skeyes themselves indicate that they don't actually make so many negative decisions in that story. Then how exactly was that calculation made? In what way did the cost calculation take place? The budgetary table provides for around €13.5 million for that part of the project, while the radar systems need to be adapted. Skeyes has also always said that this must be paid for by those who invest in wind energy. Is the federal government supposed to charge these costs? Will we then receive the 13.5 million euros? A further study is being carried out on floating solar panels in the North Sea. There is also a fairly high pattern of expectations attached to this. There's talk of one gigawatt. The project in which you have participated so far assumes that there will be a proof or concept of these floating solar panels this summer. In what way do we get 1 gigawatt for installation in a relatively short term? Where did you get those numbers? Eventually 1 Gigawatt is relatively much in that area. Flanders scores fairly high in terms of the number of solar panels today, with 4.3 gigawatt. Realising a quarter of that in the relatively short term with technology that still has to prove itself is solid. Nor is it clear to me how many solar panels you plant exactly on the federal government's buildings. You know that we have called for this on a number of occasions. We have made a recommendation in the context of your policy paper, which unfortunately - perhaps it was a misunderstanding - was voted away. It will now appear in this list. I'd like to hear what direction you're heading there. You are talking about the quadrupling of the wind at sea. Of course, for the sake of fairness, it has to be said that the ambition for this legislature was already higher. The ambition was already at 4 gigawatts. Even with what you are proposing here, you will have a maximum doubling and not a quadrupling of ambition. I do have some questions about the schedule. If I am right, you want results by 2030. That means that you would execute the repo early. We have had an offshore hearing here. At that time it was not about early repossession but it was said that we had to be ready to install that new generation of windmills as soon as the present generation comes to the end of its life. This, of course, poses considerable challenges for the companies that have the concessions today. If they have a concession today that runs for a few years and they say it has to be done faster than originally planned to get that 8 gigawatt, then I wonder how you are going to achieve it, because some of those investments obviously still have to be paid off. Will it be the federal government that is going to intervene in this, to ensure that this investment is made more quickly and that there will be an enlargement? Is that different? I see you're making a point of moving that second zone forward. You're talking about 2027. Compared to the table currently available on the website of the FOD, this is an advance of three months for 700 megawatts, a quarter. Is that what this advance is supposed to mean? In your answer to a question from two weeks ago, you were mainly aiming for no further delay. I also see a number of cases on which the federal government has held otherwise in the past. I see the story of the hydrogen trains. In the past, this track was not followed because research had shown that this was not the most cost-effective way to ensure that those trains could run on the non-electricised lines. What research has made this the most efficient way? It was also initially communicated that this would be a doubling of the modal share of the train in both freight and passenger transport. However, I see something else on your slides, namely that it would only be about freight transport. Could you give us a little more explanation on that? I understand, of course, that doubling the modal share of rail transport in passenger transport is a major challenge in the short term, and I wonder where the measures that should lead to this are. I do therefore have some questions about the way in which these figures have been obtained and where they are going with them. With regard to the negotiating mandate to proceed to an extension of 2 gigawatt nuclear, the question is how you arrived at that 2 gigawatt. Were there any other power stations being looked at or not? Didn't that ever lie on the table? To what extent is it wise to make that extension only for 10 years? I can imagine that an extension of 20 years in size would require almost the same investment. This was also indicated in practice by a number of players. That makes it a lot easier for you to negotiate in Paris for that 20-year extension. After all, there will be a lot more revenue and then it will be much easier to reach an agreement. There are also, where appropriate, more yields that can be shared with the wider population. Have you made a conscious choice in this matter? Why was the choice made for ten years and not for twenty years? I now come to the story of the environmental impact report. You have to do an alternative study in this area. For Objectives 1 and 2, the alternative study was approved in the 2015 law or the zero alternative. In my view, it would be a sensible choice to look at the three options in that study, namely the zero alternative, the ten-year extension, but also the twenty-year extension. Are you prepared to look at the 20-year extension in the alternative study so that the best choice can be examined at least in an environmental impact report? The results may be to the advantage of the environment in this area. So we need to look at that. As far as the whole CRM package was concerned, I had already noticed in the calibration report by Elijah that the reduction factors had become the nuclear power plants. You know that in the previous calibration report there was still a line with the reduction factor specific to nuclear energy. That line isn't in there anymore. I can imagine that the figures in question have not changed dramatically. If I am not mistaken, last time there was a 96 % reduction factor, which together with the turbojets was one of the highest of the list. Do you recalculate the same reduction factor when you are talking about determining the ineligible capacity and when the two gigawatt nuclear capacity is inserted into it? That makes quite a difference. Or did you have other reduction factors calculated? I noticed that the line had disappeared. I cannot explain how that has disappeared from the overall package. When I put Elijah's calculations next to last year's calculations, I see some evolutions. The CREG has taken part of this and does not really have to comment on the relationship between the T-4 and the T-1 auction. However, I think that has a big impact. Compared to last year's auction, a large package seems to have moved from the T-1 auction to the T-4 auction. I'm declaring myself. If the package for the crossboarder (foreign capacity) gets smaller, this package automatically shifts to the T-4 auction. If the part that was foreseen for the 200 hours is reduced, this means in absolute figures that there is more auctioning in the T-4 auction. This is important because we know that in a T-4 auction other capacities can participate than in a T-1 auction. The case is technology-neutral, but I'm pretty sure a new gas plant in the T-1 auction will have a lot more trouble than in a T-4 auction. You have to build those things, too. The question is whether these capacities can no longer be addressed. You have said that you will no longer make the mistake of expressing it in new gas plants, I can understand that, but the result of what is on the table may well be that a larger package could be discussed. Then the question is what the effects will be. If you add all the changes together - the volume calculated for the previous auction and the volume calculated for the current auction - the difference in volume between 1,365 and 1,858 depends on whether to take point A or points B&C. Then, of course, I haven't removed the contracted capacity yet, just to be clear. That's about the order of magnitude it's about. That of course means that a little more capacity will be allocated unless we ensure that nuclear capacity brings the bar down again. For me, however, the question remains whether two new gas plants plus two extended nuclear power plants will not bring us to more capacity than your calculation should actually indicate. Unless you're about to say something about the reduction factor of the nuclear energy you've applied in your calculation. Of course, it can make a difference. With regard to the gas plants, you said that the thresholds for CO2 emissions are being adjusted. Do you have any idea what direction that would take? I have already suggested to you in the past that we take a look at them, specifically what they were about turbojets. I think it would be a good thing if they weren't in the story anymore. I note that initiatives are now being taken. I am curious to see how you will deal with the emissions of existing gas plants. It can ensure that the capacity that now receives one-year contracts is replaced by capacity that may receive 15-year contracts. That makes a difference, in the sense that an old gas power station can fall out from one year to the next. One winter later, it can be concluded that this capacity is no longer needed. No problem, he won't get a contract for the next year. For a new gas plant, that's different. After all, it automatically receives a 15-year contract. To what extent will the scheme lead to a kind of lock-in whereby we keep capacity in the market, even though it may no longer be necessary at that time due to any other developments? How do you see that? It is not entirely illogical to apply the price limits set out in the resolution. But things have already evolved. For example, we had to establish that the previous auction focused rather strongly on the intermediate price limit. Almost everyone offered a one-year contract for amounts ranging between 19.6 and 20 euros. The fixing of the price limit can therefore have a major impact in this respect. In a previous version, we have also discussed whether it is appropriate, with those determinations in mind, to bring down the intermediate price limit, especially since there are possible deviations from the intermediate price limit in your system. This will not necessarily exclude capacities and thus not necessarily lead to a security of supply problem. Only a procedure should be carried out to demonstrate the need for a higher intermediate price limit, which may lead to a deviation from it. Is it not appropriate to set the intermediate price limit below what we had proposed in the resolution? After all, when we put the EUR 20 on paper, there was no derogation from the intermediate price limit. Now that the safety net is there, there are good reasons to adjust that limit downwards, just because everyone has remarkably allied themselves entirely on the intermediate price limit, with the exception of 0.4 euros per kilowatt. With regard to the maximum price of 75 and 50, we may have set it somewhat arbitraryly, taking into account the expectations based on the studies of that time. But in view of the fact that the auction offer is much lower, one might ask whether one should not consider setting these parameters for adult contracts so high. It could indeed be argued that we had capped the 83 parameter held by PwC to ensure that it would be limited to 75. But the final bid was much lower. So I think there are reasons to consider whether the parameter cannot be set lower and what its effect is on the whole package. I also think that we should be able to give a very brief opinion on when the two gigawatts of nuclear energy can be withdrawn. This is important for the determination of the volume and the ineligible capacity. Of course, there's the pre-qualification first. The next step will clarify the extent to which the ineligible capacity plays a role. Does that mean that, in your view, nuclear capacity should also be pre-qualified in the context of the forthcoming auction in the relatively short term? On the one hand, there is a warning from Mr Saegeman, among others, that the capacity of the long-term nuclear power plants will only be available from June 2027 and, on the other hand, the story of the FANC, which, on the basis of a table, shows that there is no real problem and that the extension of the life of the nuclear power plants can be completed in good time. What will you take into account? If you record the volume at the end of the month......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That will change the whole story, with the instruction to organise the auction. Last time you worked with a very high ineligible capacity, which we questioned, but that figure was adjusted after the pre-qualification. To what extent should this be done for nuclear capacity? Another element has not so much to do with the auction that is now being organised, but rather with the result of the previous auction. The figures that Elijah now uses should have been used at the previous auction, taking into account the availability of foreign capacity or the reduction factors. Let me give you an example. I really cannot imagine that there is a big difference between the two winters when the availability of solar panels in the story is then charged as a reduction factor of 3% and now as one of 1%. It's mostly about moving insight. Does that mean that we have to make some kind of compensation in the context of the T-1 auction for the winter of 2025-2026? I think that is the way forward, but that, of course, could also have a number of effects. I would like to make these points, however, so that we can take the right steps with all the information on the table and come to conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u5	We cannot complain about a lack of knowledge of the file among our committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your very detailed briefing and for being made available to you this afternoon to participate in our debates. Given the importance of the issue and the context, it is quite normal that the exchanges we can have here should be long, technical, precise and detailed, as we have seen during the speech by our colleague, Bert Wollants. On behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group, I would like to draw attention to and make a few comments on the comprehensive agreement that was reached by the government a little less than a week ago. In our view, this is an exceptional agreement to the extent that it has been found in an exceptional context. No one can deny it. The war is taking place in a dramatic manner at the gates of the European Union, with Russia attacking Ukraine. In particular, this context highlights our energy dependence. Belgium is 90% dependent on energy. This is about all the raw materials it imports to produce energy. It is particularly dependent on Russia. The figures have been cited on numerous occasions: 30% for oil, 25% for uranium used in nuclear power stations and 6% for gas. At the international level, at the energy level, the challenge for environmentalists is to get out of this dependence by keeping in mind the climate objective. As I have said on several occasions, as has been the case with some colleagues, in all the debates on this subject, in this committee or in plenary, the solution is to invest heavily in renewable energy to reach 100% renewable energy in order to make us totally independent of Russia, but also of other countries, and to achieve our climate objectives. The goal is carbon neutrality by 2050, a goal set collectively at European and international levels. In this exceptional context, another important point is the total price instability on international markets, such as the price of gas and all raw materials. Because it is a question of the food crisis in all the analyses. I'll stop by the energy prices. Madam Minister, you said you were coming back from a two-day summit with your European colleagues. Today there is a summit between Heads of State on this subject. The Belgian Prime Minister reminded us yesterday and Monday in committee that Belgium has put on the table a non-paper of proposals on energy prices to establish a ceiling and a collective purchasing mechanism, as was the case for the purchase of vaccines, a comparison which the Prime Minister took up on Monday. From what I read in the press, the discussions are ongoing and several blocks of countries (Spain, Italy, France, etc.) which support our initiative include discussions on the energy price cap. Other countries do not yet appear to be convinced, such as the Netherlands and Germany; have there been any new developments? It was felt that the principle of the single buyer was on a very good track. What about the energy price cap in your discussions over the last two days, but also in those that Mr. De Croo is talking to his European counterparts? Belgium plays an ambitious and pioneering role here between part of the Southern countries and Germany and the Netherlands. This initiative is to be welcomed. This ambition is important in the light of international instability. We are talking about an exceptional agreement because it sets the course for the next ten years and, above all, puts in place unprecedented decisions in terms of accelerating investment in renewable energy. For environmentalists, this has always been the course. This has always been our energy vision. It is also a strategic vision in relation to geopolitical security, to get out of dependence on fossil fuels. In this case, I would refer to an unprecedented acceleration of 1.2 billion in structural renewable energy solutions. These are mainly offshore wind investments, which will be increased to eight gigawatts, but also to other types of solutions, whether onshore or compared to photovoltaic panels and others. I'm not going to go into the details. Here I want to support not only this ambition, but also encourage you to do more. On the part of our group, that's the least we can do. I would remind you that this is an additional gigawatt of renewable energy per year in the years to come. As I said, the goal is carbon neutrality by 2050 with 100% renewable energy. But by 2030, it is 30% renewable electricity generation. There, we enter into the concrete, the operationalization. There are no longer major plans that sometimes seem abstract to our fellow citizens – rightly so. As far as our group is concerned, it is fundamental. Having been able to speed up the transition to renewable energy is a great reason for satisfaction. This, of course, is in conflict with the energy vision and policy that has been carried out in this country over the last 20 years. It was either over-the-counter or, in the best case, non-decisions in relation to this type of investment. That is what I would like to stress. Minister, I can only encourage you to do even more. I think we have the possibilities. Moreover, Europe will also push us to do more in this area. The Prime Minister was talking to us on Monday afternoon about opportunities for joint investment at European level for interconnection. Imagine that we can invest, with the Netherlands and France, for example in interconnections in the North Sea to connect renewable energy cables. It's fundamental. These are solutions that are being put in place to move faster. The final part of the plan relates to the remainder of the power generation capacity for electricity. As ecologists, we have communicated on our opening to review "Plan B", i.e. the possibility of extending the two oldest reactors, Doel 4 and Tihange 3. This opening that you yourself have made has materialized, through our vice-prime ministers or party presidents, through the mandate you have received from the government to negotiate this extension of the two oldest reactors. Negotiations are under way. In this regard, I would like to make a number of points. As part of this mandate you have described, it also confirms the closure of the other five reactors, which is extremely important to us. This is a clear decision that stems from the negotiating mandate you have received. You recalled it at the beginning of your presentation. In view of what is being read today about the interventions of actors such as Engie, one of the main stakeholders, can you provide additional information about the discussions that you are currently conducting? It is well known that every actor, whether it is the Belgian state that you represent with the Prime Minister or Engie, must be in a negotiating phase and we imagine that statements to the press have a goal each time. We are in a negotiation that is obviously important. You have reminded us of the parameters of the very strong mandate in relation to nuclear waste in particular, which must not be linked to this extension, but also to the provisions which are a fundamental subject in the field of dismantling. In any case, for us environmentalists, at the level of our parliamentary group, it is extremely clear red lines in the mandate that has been given. Could you give us some information? Indeed, this has stirred much of the debate this week. Could you tell us more? However, I would like to remind you of our lines on this subject. Indeed, when you hear some, you have the impression that all this looks very simple, that you will extend reactors overnight. When I hear the lobbies or the most pro-nuclear parties in our political landscape, I have the impression that installing four, five, six nuclear power plants can happen overnight without much difficulty. That is obviously not the case. It remains an energy that raises many questions not only in terms of waste, I have just mentioned it, but also nuclear waste is a real problem of society, the environment and safety, not to mention the more global security aspect of nuclear energy. For us, these remain fundamental points. I find it interesting to re-emphasize the points that are important to us in relation to this mandate. If you could just say a word about it. For this first round, I shall dwell on these various considerations, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u7	Mr President, first of all I should like to apologize for the absence of my colleague Malik Ben Achour, who is being held by a family event. Minister, the March 18 agreement states that you will be given a mandate to discuss with Engie the ten-year extension of the Doel 4 and Tihange 3 reactors, as has been said, repeated and repeated, so that this issue can be closed by June. These reactors could only be extended from winter 2026-2027. Therefore, given that the current legislation provides for the closure of Doel 4 and Tihange 3 respectively on 1 July and 1 September 2025, our country should dispense with the supply of two gigawatts for more than one year. How do you expect to ensure security of supply during this interval? The answer to this question should relate to CRM. As the Vilvorde plant has not received an environmental permit, projects not retained during the previous auction (Eneco à Manage or Luminus à Seraing) should compensate for the capacity. Are we sure that this new power plant will be enough? The remuneration of the State to be granted to these projects will be higher than that provided for the Vilvorde power plant. Moreover, if we take into account the activity of two nuclear reactors by the end of 2026, the capacity to be provided by the CRM gas plants should be smaller than envisaged, which could represent a greater loss of profits for operators and thus increase the state's compensatory financing. Can we get your feedback on the analyses carried out by CREG and Elia on this subject? Can you provide us with a complete estimate of the impact of the two-reactor extension on CRM costs and more specifically on the October 2022 auction? How do you guarantee that these costs will not be passed on to our fellow citizens? Madam Minister, one of the main reasons for the extension of Doel 4 and Tihange 3 is the volatility of gas prices and the need to strengthen the independence of Europe's energy supply from gas - in particular Russian gas. However, we will have to use gas intensively between winter 2025-2026 and the next. Are we sure that price sustainability and supply will be guaranteed during this period? With regard to the negotiations with Engie and the risk of a disadvantageous position in Belgium, you have indicated that you are not "back to the wall" since our security of supply is guaranteed by the CRM. However, prior to the announcement of the extension of two nuclear reactors, a shortfall of 1,000 MW was mentioned for the winter of 2026-2027. Can we have your return here, too? Similarly, what is the state of negotiations with Engie? Has there been any mention of financial intervention by the State? How do you envisage guaranteeing a strong position of our State in these negotiations? How do you intend to ensure that Engie meets its nuclear supply commitments and that the cost of renovating facilities estimated at one billion is borne by the operator? Up to 3.3 billion profits could be generated by nuclear power plants in Belgium by 2024. Do you intend to maintain the open possibility of taxing these overprofits or of increasing the nuclear rent in this period of energy crisis? In addition, Minister, the road to the extension of Doel 4 and Tihange 3 to the winter of 2026-2027 is long. It involves several stages: work, alignment with the safety criteria, the approval of the European Commission and I am moving on. Should an agreement be reached with ENGIE in June, could the timing be respected? Can you inform us of the contacts with the European Commission and the deadlines for the validation of the extension of the activities of the two reactors? In the opinion of our group, given the government's decision, it is essential that the power plants be able to operate as quickly as possible, at the beginning of 2026, failing which we risk seeing the technicians at work on the sites leaving their office or, quite simply, our country. This is of great importance. We cannot settle for an extension by 2027 or even 2028.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u8	Madam Minister, this is about the agreement that was concluded on Friday 18 March and which was also communicated at that time. I wonder whether everyone in the government is equally happy with this agreement, especially given the communication of the various parties in the following days and the reservations that have been expressed. Madam Minister, I understand, of course, that it was difficult for the Greens to swallow at that time, given the extension of the life of those two youngest nuclear power plants. Each party has gone to the negotiations with a certain wish list. In your case, it was reported that EUR 8 billion of measures were needed to achieve a faster transition. You have just outlined the vision that has flowed from it. I am particularly concerned about the feasibility of this. You say you will go to a faster transition, but there is of course also a proverb that says that the faster you walk, the faster you can fall. I am particularly concerned about the feasibility in the future. I notice it every time, with every agreement, people say they will go faster, faster and faster. However, it must still be possible. Madam Minister, as you know, we have followed the entire CRM story with a certain critical eye in the past. When we talk about external dependence, dependence on gas and so on, we all know that there will be increasing electrification in the coming years. We make a switch from fuel to electric, we make a switch from gas to heat pumps. With the measures you take, including the reduction of VAT on heat pumps, you will of course also direct people in this direction. The electricity grid will also be crucial in the coming years. We often talk about security of supply and the electricity that needs to be available at the time, but infrastructure still needs to be followed. Madam Minister, I know that we are in the waters of the regions, because they have to take care of the infrastructure aspect. However, there are also the capacity rates in Flanders, which have just been invented because they were afraid of all the infrastructure works that would be needed to enable further electrification and to reduce the peaks. So there's still a lot of work to be done. When I look at the ambitions you cherish, much less fuel, much less gas, more heat pumps, and that's the way it's gonna have to be about the nets at the end of the ride. Will that all flow well together? In the title you spoke very nicely about an energy breakthrough. When we look at the extension that is now on the table, the question is whether there is a real breakthrough here. I don't know. In any case, the current government has ignored many signals for far too long. You will recall the many debates we have had in recent years with academics, employers, international institutions, the OECD and at some point even with the European Commission, which talked about an important presence of the nuclear story in the energy mix. You are also talking about a spicy deadline that was there in 2021 and about a deadline now. However, when we look at the extension of nuclear capacity, that deadline is not at all spicy for me. You pushed that deadline way too far. Indeed, as of the 2020 government agreement, it was envisaged that the government would take that decision in October or November 2021. At that time, however, we had to establish that no plan B was prepared at all. The war in Ukraine is an additional factor that has now prompted the government to make the basic choice for an extended life of two nuclear power plants. A full core trip may have been your party's greatest commitment to government participation. Due to the war in Ukraine, the loss of face in the choice of nuclear renewal may be a little more limited. I also understand that not everyone fully agrees with the decision on these two nuclear power stations. There is a discussion on whether the life span should be extended by 10 or 20 years. Perhaps you should also have looked at extending the life of more nuclear power plants than just the two youngest, given the situation in Ukraine. This decision has been delayed for a very long time. I notice that other government parties, such as Open Vld, are beginning to speak in TV studios threateningly towards the operator, who had finally decided to write off all those nuclear power stations accounting at the end of 2020 when the financial year ended. After all, the government did not participate in the story of an extended lifetime and the government did not show any interest in sitting around the table. The operator therefore has his arrows aimed at complete decommissioning. There is now a whole story where Electrabel says that those nuclear power plants can't just stay open any longer, when you say they can. That makes it all very difficult. Whether we are talking about a complete closure of nuclear power stations or not, it has always been said in the past that if nothing happens, we would become dependent on abroad for a third of our security of supply. That is also apparent from the figures. I didn't need a war to see that being dependent on abroad is a bad idea. As far as I'm concerned, a lifetime extension was a necessity anyway, because war or not, especially when we're talking about energy, security of supply is something that we need to keep in our own hands as much as possible. I do not understand why you are talking at one point about interconnections that are important and are being worked out, but you say in the following sentence that we must be as independent as possible. That seems to me to be a contradiction. Regarding the ambition to scale the offshore to 8 gigawatt, the Flemish interest has never opposed renewable energy, but with sun and wind alone we will not get there. At certain times, sun and wind can be very interesting for our security of supply, but there is always an uncertain factor involved. If we go a great deal towards renewable energy at some point, then we will also have to work more and more on the storage of energy, just in order to cope with this unpredictability. As I said earlier, I do ask myself questions about the timing of things. It can be said that the whole story of offshore will be scaled up even further and that certain timelines will be added to it, but I wonder to what extent these timelines will actually be feasible. With regard to the affordability of our energy, which we are talking about very often, we must dare to approach it micro-economically. You have often said that renewable energy is the cheapest form of energy. In the hearing we heard how price formation was achieved. Inframarginal pricing has also shown this, but it has also shown that nuclear energy together with renewable energy is the energy mix we need in the future. So I don't see one thing apart from the other. That's why those two are one and indivisible to me. There are also other parties in the majority in favour of a permanent presence of nuclear energy in the energy mix. I wonder what the government's position is on the energy mix of the future. It is said that one wants to speed up the energy transition, but what does this mean in concrete terms? Some parties are talking about the nuclear power plants of the future. I haven't heard you say anything about how we should see it in the future. My main concern is the government's late decision. Are we gonna get there or not? That's the question. Is it a game of Electrabel to sell their sheet at this time very expensive? I take note of what you say. I take note of what Electrabel's top man says about June 2027. They say that the two nuclear power plants will not be able to produce for a while. Mrs van der Straeten, you have always been a non-beneficiary of the extension of nuclear power stations. You will now join us at the table with the operator. I wonder how easy it would be for you to defend that agreement with complete determination? The ten-year extension is particularly limited. I think a lifetime extension of 20 years would be more reasonable. This makes it easier to talk to the operator about the extension of the service life and thus the costs of the extension can be spread over a longer period. What is your position and that of the Prime Minister if ENGIE Electrabel himself proposes an extension of 20 years during the negotiations? I also refer to the FANC, which has always said that it is possible to extend it for 20 years. You say that these two gigawatts should move in, but what will you do if ENGIE Electrabel will not act faster and cling to the envisaged period of June 2027? Is it gonna be interesting for a while? What is the government's position on this? There are also a lot of organizations that in the past had a lot of affinity with your party. They have announced that they will do everything in their power to prevent and boycott this extension of life. As a green minister, you will loyally defend this agreement with the operator. Will you also talk to these organisations to explain to them the need for this extension? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u9	Mr President, first of all, I thank you and the members of the committee, especially Mr Wollants, if I remember correctly, who wrote immediately so that we could have this exchange of views as soon as possible on the government agreement that was reached last Friday. I thank the minister for being here when she had international obligations this week. It's Friday afternoon. It's a big sun outside. It's also good for solar panels. But we're at work and it's a good thing. To talk about this very broad government agreement – I believe we will not exhaust, in one afternoon, all the things that can be said about it – I will start by saying that this whole matter began with the refusal of the Vilvorde plant licence. Basically, in your CRM plan – which is yours, personal, on which Mr. Wollants weighed at certain times, but which has changed over time, because you have rightly appropriated it – it is clear that the first stone in the shoe was the refusal of the Vilvorde plant's licence, and all the avatars that followed, with this obligation to create a bill to correct the shot, or attempt to correct it, in order to obtain in the first auction the capacity that you yourself assessed at two gas plants, and no more. However, some observers already knew at the time that this capacity was calculated in a way that was far too fair, and that it would in any case lack capacity in the medium and long term. It is in this way, regardless of the current geostrategic situation, which is linked to the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, that the government has finally and reasonably considered other means of capacity, in order to strengthen the assessment of volumes, and to strengthen the security of supply of our country, in a context where there is a weakening of the CRM system based on gas-fired power plants. Indeed, in terms of supply of raw materials, as Mr Vanden Burre has pointed out, we are going to have a completely different management at European level than the way in which gas supplies will be made in the years to come. No one knows how long this conflict will last and this fragility is important to take into account because it will create a lot of difficulties in terms of supply of raw materials and basic elements for the construction and maintenance of the large machines that produce electricity in this country, whether until 2025 or later. My remarks are not neutral because it is quite obvious that wanting to implement a greater capacity of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea – what I also want and what is part of my vision of the energy mix of the future, i.e. a renewable nuclear mix – is also having difficulty predicting in terms of supply of raw materials, in terms of the strength of the companies that will present themselves in public procurement to obtain concessions. This will also apply to the extension of nuclear units. This will inevitably come within the framework of the negotiations that you have, I hope, now begun with the energetician. These negotiations start in a somewhat special way since the energyist in question reminds – and this is a position that is entirely legitimate – that he had indicated that it was necessary to decide by the end of December 2020 and that arriving in March 2022 with a decision to extend two nuclear units for ten years was too late. It is already a first expression which may make things a little more complicated than they would have been if the negotiations had been started at the end of December 2020 and if, already at that time, instead of embarking on magic calculations, we had recognized what we had to admit afterwards, namely that we needed a minimum of 4 GW of capacity to be able to imagine a partial exit from nuclear power. This first difficulty will make the discussions very complicated because the second difficulty - some Members have pointed out - will lie in the necessary investments, raw materials, deliveries and others which will inevitably come to light, making an extension of ten years extremely expensive and inefficient in terms of the legitimate profitability that an operator can expect from what is being asked of him. Because, in our system, and unlike in other countries, it is the private operators who make machines available to us on the electric circuit that enable them to develop a minimum of profitability in order to take on their business and be able to put on the market machines in working order to render the service for which they exist. It is clear to both offshore operators and nuclear operators and those who are going to participate in the pilot project - because I am sorry, but I have only heard about a pilot project for solar panels in the North Sea - that these private companies need to have visibility over time, legal certainty and be able to cope with the burdens inherent in what is being asked of them in order to obtain a minimum of profits and ensure that their infrastructure produces for 15 to 20 years what is being asked to produce. My questions are as follows. On the one hand, starting today, your schedule will continue to become extremely busy. In fact, we must try to erase the Vilvorde episode and launch a new auction in order to replace the capacity that will never see light on the soil of the Flemish Region, but probably more on the side of the Walloon Region. On the other hand, negotiations with Engie must continue - with a view to their conclusion in June this year. At the end of this month, it is also appropriate to present a first draft amendment of the law in order to encourage the extension of nuclear units, as well as a draft amendment of a royal decree with regard to all safety requirements - but it seems to me to be within the competence of your colleague from the Interior, since these issues are being coerced by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Similarly, the study and work on CRM must be continued in order to be able to properly and subsequently prepare the second auction. Therefore, you still have a lot of work to do. In essence, all the questions that are put to you by colleagues, and to which - for some of them - you will obviously not answer, since the black box of negotiations must remain confidential in order for them to succeed, are legitimate and are all based on the same feeling: concern for security of supply. You have already proved once that the calculations were not good and that, in order to succeed, it was important to set up nuclear units - which was initially not foreseen in your plan. We will not have a significant acceleration in the installation of large offshore machines in the North Sea before 2027 at best, which is very far away. Knowing that ENGIE's staff is not married to the company and that the social plan of retention with serenity bonuses will not necessarily retain all engineers and managers in the company, we will not be able to operate all the plants properly until 2025. These capacity problems will therefore come to you and this will probably be an element that will have to be addressed in the negotiations. To arrive at the end of June 2022 at a successful negotiation, will you expand the possibility of negotiations according to what the company that is in front of you will say? I'm sure she'll tell you that ten years is totally insufficient and she won't be investing for that period. She already did it before and she said it was the last time. This time, she would like to have the opportunity to extend for 20 years. She will probably then tell you that her intention was not to extend, but since she was asked, she would like to put on the table the extension of other nuclear units. In order to give credibility to what you claim to want to inject into new generation nuclear power plants – for example, RMS – you need to keep a value chain for a sufficient period of time – at least fifteen years – and you need to run a company with a sufficient level of know-how throughout that time so that you will one day have a chance to have new generation nuclear power plants that are capable of making a real renewable-nuclear mix, with nuclear power plants capable of making charge recovery when there is no wind to avoid putting fossils into action through thermal power plants such as gas power plants. This is part of a serious plan, which we support and which I defend, in particular through a bill that I want to table. My colleague Bert Wollants has tabled a bill on the extension of certain nuclear units. The CD&V and the Open Vld have also tabled bills for the establishment of new generation power plants in our territory. I support these initiatives. I intend to introduce a bill calling for the extension of nuclear units and linking it to the establishment of new generation nuclear power plants in our country. I believe that, in combination with renewable energy, we have the capacity we need and the energy mix of the future. I will come back to you in the second round when I have heard the answers to the questions you have been asked to ask one or the other more specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. Last month we woke up in another world. The war in Ukraine is, of course, primarily affecting the inhabitants of Ukraine, but here too we feel its impact, albeit mainly in economic terms. The energy crisis, which affects not only Belgium but also all other European countries, is a direct consequence of the Ukraine crisis. Energy prices go through the roof, prices at the pump are extremely high and energy independence suddenly becomes an important pillar in our energy debate. Security of supply is suddenly given a different dimension, i.e. own security of supply. Exceptional circumstances require, of course, exceptional measures. It is therefore that the government has already adopted three packages of measures to reduce our energy bill. There is also an exceptional agreement on security of supply. It is right that the government has finally chosen to extend the life of the two nuclear reactors. It thus opts for energy security: the extension of the life of the two youngest nuclear power plants, combined with an adapted CRM system to attract new capacity, and an acceleration of the shift to renewable energy. These three simultaneous processes must ensure that our supplies are not compromised and that we immediately switch to renewable energy. The first part of the agreement that you have explained, Madam Minister, focuses on more wind, solar and hydrogen energy. The broad lines are clear, but of course questions remain as to how and when all this will be achieved. I share some of Mr Wollants' concerns about this. How will we work on some of the measures in practice? For example, the energy agreement talks about the installation of solar panels at SNCB stations. But should our committee follow up on its implementation or the Mobility Committee? You also have the ambition to achieve 1.5 gigawatts of extra wind power by reducing thresholds. I think we should be careful about this. I am curious how we will achieve this effectively. The main focus of the debate is, of course, the ten-year extension of the life of the nuclear reactors and the CRM. Of course, we'll discuss these topics in our committee. For us, the extension has been discussed for some time; we have no taboos in this respect. Why are we not considering a longer extension? From a purely economic point of view, would it not be better to immediately opt for a longer term? Of course, such a longer extension can also have an impact on the growth of renewable energy. What are the pros and cons related to that chosen deadline? How is it motivated? According to the agreement, the nuclear power plants whose lifespan has been extended account for 2 gigawatts. That is still not enough for some people; worse still, some people change their minds every day: first they do not want an extension, then they want to extend the life of two plants, then four plants and then six plants; the sky is not the limit. Why did you choose 2 gigawatts? Undoubtedly this has to do with the impact on renewable energy growth and is it a balancing solution? Please explain the motivation, so that we can be opponents of the 2 gigawatt of answer. When will the extension of the life of the two nuclear power plants be completed? This has an impact on the CRM. When determining the volumes we need to know when the 2 gigawatt is available. The extension will not be a walk in the park. Much remains to be done, such as the completion of the EIA procedure and nuclear safety procedures, and the vote on the relevant draft law. So the timing is definitely a hard nut to crack. Engie warned the day before yesterday in the newspaper that they would not be ready until 2027. That's nothing new. It has always been said that people would be late. But we are faced with exceptional circumstances. The government shall take exceptional measures. We also expect exceptional measures from our citizens and businesses. I expect that from Engie, too. In view of the new situation, Engie will have to sign up for the route we have set out. There will undoubtedly be strong negotiations on many aspects, such as renewal, nuclear waste, overprofits. Hopefully these negotiations will take place at the table and not in the press, and we will hear something different every day. I wish you every success in reaching a good agreement with Engie for our energy security. One aspect that has not yet been really addressed is the degree of flexibility of nuclear power stations Objective 4 and Tihange 3. I once tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, which was adopted in 2020. What steps have been taken to follow up this resolution? On the basis of that resolution, will you consider during the negotiations to what extent both plants can be used flexibly or can be modulated? Do you include this aspect in the negotiations? Finally, the government agreement also provides for a budget for nuclear know-how. Our country has a lot of nuclear know-how and expertise. We have a top position there and, of course, we must not lose it. An annual budget of EUR 25 million has been made available for the next four years. Could you give me some more information? What does that mean in concrete terms? Nuclear technology doesn't stand still, and it's a good thing. We had hearings on the SMRs here recently. We have tabled a bill to make it possible in our country too. Madam Secretary, you are preparing a bill to extend the life of two nuclear reactors. Will you also include in the relevant text the possibility of new technologies for the fourth generation nuclear power stations? How do you feel about that? A number of legislative proposals have already been tabled, including those of other colleagues. So the issue is certainly close to our heart and we must tackle the challenges in this area with our eyes open and with our eyes open. We must not hypothesize the future. In conclusion, I am pleased with the agreement, which clarifies the direction we are going to take. It will certainly not be easy, but I hope that everyone understands that sense of urgency and acts accordingly. This applies not only to the federal government, but also to Engie and the regional governments, which also have a role to play in terms of security of supply. Security of supply is a task and a matter for everyone. Everyone's gonna have to do their part. So why bother if we can do it together? That's a boltade. We must all work together to ensure security of supply for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u11	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we do not call this an energy agreement, but an Engie agreement. Engie wins here again, three times. Engie receives subsidies for the new gas plant under the CRM. Engie will now also receive financial guarantees for the longer-term opening of nuclear power plants. You must negotiate, Madam Secretary, but I do not know if there will be much to negotiate. Engie will probably ask for a minimum price, probably also a concession on the bill for the disposal of nuclear waste and the decommissioning of nuclear power plants, and there is no mention of the surplus. This week, the CREG released the figures and confirmed what we have been saying for months, soon to come, namely that Engie Electrabel is making billions of euros overprofit. Apparently that's really taboo here. This has just been demonstrated in the course of the work, and we should not even talk about it. According to the majority, a legislative proposal to assess the excess profit should not even be discussed. The government's press release also states that no initiative will be taken before June to tax the surplus in the energy sector. There is, of course, no connection between the fact that this is in the government's press release and that the parties of the majority, including the so-called leftist like PS and Ecolo, voted away the request to discuss our legislative proposal on this issue. Madam Minister, in your presentation, I see that in the section on the financing of the energy agreement, you are not even talking about skimming the surplus. However, you have said at least 10 times in this committee that no one should enrich themselves in this crisis. That's the magical sentence, but apparently it's dead and buried. At the same time, you want to make an agreement with Engie by June. The first thing Engie will put on the table in the negotiations will be protecting the gain. Both Mrs Almaci, still your president, and several spokesmen from government parties such as Mr Magnette of the PS, Mr Rousseau of Vooruit and Minister of Peteghem of CD&V have said that no one should enrich themselves in this crisis. It amounted to 2.6 billion for Engie Electrabel, from 2021 to 2024. We know where that money is. It's also simple. What people pay through the invoice goes from their account and comes into another account. That's mostly with Engie Electrabel. So it is said that no one should enrich themselves in this crisis. Those are fine words and hollow slogans, but we see no deeds. We can't even talk about it anymore. You have been hiding behind the European Commission for the last two weeks. You are supposedly waiting for a European initiative, but the European Commission has already indicated twice that it is up to the Member States themselves to take an initiative. Mrs Van der Straeten, you are vice-president of the International Energy Agency. So you are well aware that even the International Energy Agency has called on the Member States to remove the excess profits in order to reduce the invoices of families. You have taken a number of measures. You know that we think they are totally inadequate. Greater amounts must be provided for. Moreover, this must not be paid by the taxpayer; it must be paid by those who enrich themselves with the crisis, as you yourself said. Madam Secretary, will you now finally skim the profits? Will you ensure that no one is enriched during the crisis? You guarantee here and now that you will take an effective initiative yourself, if there is no initiative from Europe. This European initiative is not going to happen. Will you not therefore accept, in the negotiations you will be conducting or are already conducting with Engie, that the excess profits will be protected? In fact, Vice Prime Minister De Sutter said yesterday in plenary that I quote 'a clear framework and a clear mandate has been agreed for negotiations with Engie on the opening of nuclear power stations'. What are these preconditions? How much can the extension cost? I can't imagine that this government didn't put any money on that or that you don't have any money in your head. Actually, it's pretty simple, Engie should pay for the extension himself. The company makes more than enough profit. That excess profit could be perfect for the extension. I now come to the justification of the energy deal by the current government. I have some observations on the matter. Firstly, the extension of nuclear power stations has had a 0.0 effect on the price of electricity on exchanges. It has not fallen since the announcement of extending the life of nuclear power plants. That also makes sense, because the problem today is market forces. Again, the price is determined by the most expensive plants, in this case the old gas plants. The extension or otherwise of the life of nuclear power plants therefore has no effect on the price of electricity. The CEO of Electrabel also stated that the life of the nuclear power plants will not be renewable by 2025. You have already replicated that this is not a problem because security of supply is guaranteed, as you will already subsidise two new gas plants under the CRM. The MR appears to have the same position. I see Mrs. Marghem has left in the meantime, so she can't contradict me. The MR says the opposite, because if the opening time of the two nuclear power plants is extended by 2025, then no new gas plants need to be built. Madam Minister, how can you justify that the government will subsidise both two new gas plants with a few hundred million and two nuclear power plants with an unknown cost? In other words, how do you support the decision of the Energy Agreement, if security of supply is guaranteed and that decision does not affect the price? You refer to our energy independence, but in the past you always pointed to the fact that we are also dependent on abroad for uranium. I would also like to refer specifically to the justification given by Elia's CEO at the press conference, namely the deterioration of the security of supply in France by the old, unreliable nuclear power stations. Of course, that sounds plausible, but it turns out to be wrong in the facts if I base myself on Elijah's own figures. I'm declaring myself. Before 2025, Elijah doesn't count on French imports in times of scarcity. To be precise, in the grid operators' report for 2025, Elia is counting on 4 megawatts, which corresponds to half a windmill. Before 2026, Elijah is counting on more, namely 196 megawatts. In other words, despite the deterioration of security of supply in France, Elijah relies more on French imports in times of scarcity in 2026 than in 2025. This cannot therefore justify the need for additional capacity in 2026. Madam Minister, how do you explain these figures, in which the situation in France is deteriorating and at the same time we are counting on more imports from France? That seems special to me. Now I come to the volume decision for the CRM, the volume decision for the T-4 of 2026. You say that in recent weeks there has been intense consultation between Elijah and the CREG, but has the CREG already received all the detailed quantitative data requested? Not last week, as a representative of the CREG informed us on the Energy Committee. The CREG was still waiting for these data, in particular for simulations and intermediate results. That's a big problem. As Minister of Energy, you have demanded that Elia transfer all data to the CREG. Until last week, Elijah refused to do that. The members of the Energy Committee have said unanimously, so to speak, that this should indeed be done, although not everyone has spoken out loud, and therefore the CREG must have Elijah's figures. When Elijah delivered figures to the CREG last time, the latter revealed enormous sensitivity in the results, namely the impact of climate change. I therefore understand that Elijah prefers not to have watchers, but it is the role of the regulator to control the system operator. Elijah must therefore provide full transparency. Can you confirm that the CREG has received all the quantitative data, as you rightly requested? As far as volume is concerned, we have noted that you refuse to take into account CREG's proposal to apply the impact of the higher reduction factors also to the already contracted volumes. It's 64.72 megawatts. According to the CREG, this should be deducted from the demand curve, which capacity is available. Why don't you take this into account? Do I understand correctly that a double count is taking place? I'd like to know more about this. I note in particular that you are following Elijah's volume before 2026 and that the need for capacity for 2026 is increasing sharply compared to 2025. This has also been extensively cited by the CREG in this committee. Based on Elia's figures, there is a volume of 1,924 megawatts for point A and a volume of 1,431 megawatts more for points B and C. Based on these figures, the CREG translates this into one or two new gas plants. I do know that CRM is technology neutral, so it is not certain that gas plants will provide this capacity, but that is very likely. However, it concerns the increase in the required capacity. The sudden increase in the need for capacity must be explained. The CREG says that Elia still can't explain it. How do you explain this rise? You reiterated Elijah's argument that the cause of this is climate modelling. However, that is counter-intuitive. Climate change is essentially global warming. The VUB has clearly shown that severe winters will statistically occur much less frequently. It follows that the need for capacity should logically decrease by taking climate change into account. That is why we supported the CREG's question on modelling. I questioned you about that last week. We do not want to do that to change models, but to check the counter-intuitive proposal of increasing capacity at less severe winters. Modelling can also be carried out without climate change or with a different methodology, for example over the past 30 years, as there are three methodologies available to take climate into account. In this way we can check the effect and also see if it would be effective due to climate modelling that the need for capacity increases so strongly. For the sake of clarity, I am not asking for there was apparently a misunderstanding about this last week, so as to change methodology, I ask for the impact of the specific methodology chosen for statistical modelling. Did Elijah or your administration do that in the meantime? If so, what was the result of the comparison between the methodologies? If not, why not? If you don't, why would you refuse? We must be sure of the figures. 1,000 megawatts isn't nothing. If we are to provide capacity for this and subsidise it and the consumer pays for it, we must know that it is certain and that there is no error in Elijah's black box anywhere. You say, Madam Minister, that it is impossible to estimate how much new capacity there will be, but I believe that this can be done quite easily. One has to subtract from the total volume only the existing derated capacity and then one comes to the volume available for new capacity. I understand, of course, that you would rather not unpack today with the news that there will be additional gas plants. From a green angle, the chords you make are catastrophic enough. What would change is that before the auction in October an agreement will be reached with ENGIE to extend the life of the nuclear power plants by 2026 so that the volume of the nuclear power plants can be deducted from the volume that you now decide. I admit that is speculation, but I do not believe too much in coincidences in politics. Finally, I have a question about the price limit. You again set it at EUR 75 per megawatt hour, but you said that the calculation of your administration actually amounts to EUR 81 per megawatt hour. Why is the price limit rising compared to last year? Energy prices have just risen. The profitability of gas plants has never been so high. Logically, I would think the price limit would fall. I'd like to know more about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u12	Madam Minister, a number of crucial issues were decided last Friday. Firstly, on security of supply, so that our industry can continue to function and families will not be left in the cold. Secondly, we want to speed up the energy transition and become more independent of fossil fuels. With regard to security of supply, the government has taken the courageous decision to keep the two youngest nuclear power plants longer. At ENGIE Electrabel one still indicates not to stand for this jump. The action of the Belgian CEO is proof of this. He does not say:yes we can, but he gives a list of problems and doubts and states that the lifetime extension can only be completed after the winter of 2026. I was at that presentation the day before yesterday. In fact, the FANC has a different opinion on this. I know the government doesn't always have the best position to negotiate strongly. It must act with open books, it must answer to Parliament and the government's minutes can often be found in the press. Imagine that you could follow the management committee of ENGIE in Paris live via streaming. I'd love that as a government. I also have experience as chairman of an intercommunal contract negotiation. I know that sometimes people have to have the courage to come out there. The negotiations will not take place in Brussels, but in Paris. This is too important a file for ENGIE to leave it to the management of their Belgian branch. In this sense, it is good that you are negotiating such an important dossier with the Prime Minister. The statements made by the CEO of Belgium fit into a certain negotiating strategy of the mother house. Het is of good war. We're not asking for anything. That is a slogan that we have heard before in Belgian politics. Let's face it, companies have a future strategy. ENGIE is a supplier of electricity and gas, but is committed to renewable energy and has put nuclear energy into exit mode. ENGIE also has a past and obligations arising from it and also claims socially responsible behaviour. When I look at their website, I see that they want to make that up with a clear ESG statement that has so far been attested as A1. I had previously expected impossible n'est pas français, but their negotiating strategy is different. I do understand that not obtaining a licence for the gas plant in Vilvoorde, especially in their current strategic focus, is a disappointment for ENGIE and that they feel a little brusque there because they have invested in it. I fully understand that they remain right to be concerned, in my view, about the slow and late decision-making processes in this country and about the reliability of a consistent long-term energy policy. In this respect, the members of the majority of the previous legislatures must look in the mirror. Entrepreneurship is taking risks and contracts with the government, knowing that that government is not in any way inflexible in terms of investment subsidies and price guarantees, are not always a win for life. Entrepreneurship is taking risks, but the framing around excess profits has to stop. There may be winful profits, where one has the wind in the sails and has higher profits, but that needs to be looked at in a clear framework. Madam Minister, you confirmed to me that initiatives are being taken at EU level and that if they were not, the government itself would take the initiative. Moreover, as an entrepreneur, I dare say that the OECD negotiations around Pillar 1 and 2 on taxing large companies deserve attention. Both losses and excesses are therefore subjective and not meaningful terms, even though our absent communist friends like to take those words in their mouths. Madam Minister, you still need to consult with the European Commission in the context of the CRM. With the information that has been leaked about the policy, it is clear that this will succeed in the current geopolitical situation. You chose a rerun and we look forward to it. Are there any other capacities to be met after the Elia report, or are there any capacities that were selected in October and for which there is no licence? What are you going to do with that if it happens? I do not want to go into technical matters, because much has already been said. You have placed a strong framework around this acceleration towards climate-neutral energy sources. The concern, which other Members have also shared here, is, of course, that these plans must be feasible in order to do more and faster. Then, of course, there are the problems of connections and permits. I would also like to insist on the following. We in this country need to take a critical look at our licensing processes, at the administrative processes. We have seen this in the corona crisis, in times of urgency we must be able to deal with dossiers as a matter of urgency. I agree with Mr Dierick on what we are doing. That dimension was a little lost. It was said that a nuclear power station could not be turned on and off and that gas plants would be the solution. Nuclear power plants may also temporarily decrease their production volume. How do we adapt one thing to the other? That's gonna be a lot of worries. In addition to subsidising through the CRM, in addition to preparing the next generation of carbon-free non-renewable sources, not to mention the SMRs explicitly, I would like to ask you to continue promoting energy efficiency, Madam Secretary. Today's high prices mean first and foremost that supply and demand are not in balance. The best thing to do, rather than subsidising energy prices in the long term, is to call on citizens and businesses not only to be energy efficient but also to put energy efficient into practice. There is a whole arsenal of measures, of initiatives, but we must also be careful that we do not continue to throw money at any initiative relating to energy transition or climate. We must do the study where we can invest most successfully, where the biggest return on investment is. After all, all government money has to be recovered at some point. Let us negotiate smartly and talk clearly at the negotiating table and keep as much silence as possible elsewhere, including party chairmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u13	Most of the time, the opposition says it's not ambitious and it's too slow. Now the opposition thinks it is too ambitious and too fast. It's been noted. In addition, many problems are attributed to everything related to renewable energy, but when it comes to nuclear energy, it seems to be self-evident. These are two notable findings in this complex dossier. The Energy Transition Fund is explicitly mentioned on the website when financing. It has been clear to me for some time now that the resources of the Energy Transition Fund should be able to be used for more than just to continue studying in the light of the challenges we face, especially as the energy transition is accelerated. That is also in line with the coalition agreement. We have already made adjustments to the last call, in particular shorter projects, i.e. projects with a duration of one to two years. A frustration in the first call was that there used to be projects in five years. However, for demand-side projects a period of five years is too long. In October 2024 an auction should also be organised, which deals mainly with demand-side management and storage. Interesting findings from science may be too late. In the previous call we made adjustments, especially projects over a shorter period of time and the subjects for which input is needed were more clearly defined and indicated towards the researchers. Above all, the resources of the Energy Transition Fund should be able to really be used for the energy transition, the main purpose of these resources. Of course, there's still time to study. It is my express wish to see whether we can not use them even more effectively, really on the basis of acceleration. I will not fail to consider whether we should not look further at and revise the Energy Transition Fund and the regulations in this area, in line with the energy agreement that we have concluded. Secondly, with regard to the high expectations regarding skeyes and defence, you mention high expectations, but I will continue with what the sector tells me. I believe they are realistic expectations. We have spoken with the sector before the talks within the government. The sector itself indicates that 900 megawatts on the Flemish side, with similar figures on the Walloon side, is impossible because of a number of cases. These include not only radars, but also implantation zones, altitude restrictions and so on. Thirdly, as far as cost is concerned, we have received an estimate of skeyes and others from Defense. DOD came in late, though. This is also about greater costs. However, we are starting with EUR 13.5 million for this year and next year to remove the restrictions. Those are actually quick wins. It's too bad that this acceleration can't get there until now, but better late than never. There are very important profits there. As far as solar panels are concerned, we are, of course, starting with demonstration projects. Above all, we want to look at the possibilities in the first area, where there is still some room, but where the environmental impact will of course be an important aspect to take on board. The same applies to solar panels on government buildings. Here too, we want to accelerate the potential through important building managers within the federal government such as Defence, SNCB and Infrabel. In the NEKP alone, Defense indicated that it was a potential of 142 megawatt peak. It is therefore mainly a question of getting that potential much faster. As far as offshore is concerned, the quadrupling of course applies to what is installed today, 2.2 gigawatts. The previous government had indeed decided to double that in the Princess Elisabeth zone, but you know that we have already built it up on the basis of the study carried out by 3E. I'm not the same as you are against the repo. In particular, it is the question of those who are today using parks in the first zone to talk about repo protection. You have pointed out a number of problems, but I would like to think mainly in the context of solutions. Recovering can also be a solution to the fact that a turbine manufacturer has now gone bankrupt and that the existing turbines may not be able to be properly maintained, especially when spare parts are needed. In this sense, repo protection is an excellent way of putting Belgium back in the vanguard. We will then be the first country to proceed with repossession. The balance must be made there whether we wait until the end of the concession or not, or perhaps it can be done before. That is the subject of discussions with the sector and we want to get out of it before the end of the year. I'll get to the hydrogen trains. What research has shown that this is the most efficient? Hydrogen trains can replace diesel trains. Today there are serious concerns about a possible shortage of diesel in Europe, it was even on the front page of De Standaard yesterday. If we can drive hydrogen trains in a number of industrial clusters, in particular the port of Ghent, this will contribute to our independence. Secondly, CMB today has a concrete project on track to see if a demonstration project can happen in the port of Ghent. Let us see what this can do in practice rather than wait any longer. This is, as has been said repeatedly, about placing an acceleration, not about organizing business as usual at a later date. Then there are the measures on mobility, a question from Mrs Dierick. For this, I refer to the Minister for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet, who will be better able to respond. Several people have asked questions here about the 10-year deadline and more reactors. I'm sticking to what we agreed. That is very clear. This is a 10-year extension of life. That regulatory framework is known. These are two reactors, the youngest two reactors in particular. In the coalition agreement there has always been a maximum of 2 gigawatts. Now I come to the questions about the CRM and the derating factors for nuclear energy. The derating factors for nuclear energy included in the previous auction were the rating factors for foreign reactors. They can't participate yet, as I explained. That means that we do not have to calculate it now either. The derating factors for domestic nuclear reactors still have to be calculated. Questions have been asked about T-1 versus T-4. I don't think it's right to talk about a shift. They're top-down calculations. According to the CREG, this is 200 megawatts. There is no risk of overcapacity as the T-1 auction can be used. The T-1 auction offers the opportunity to catch that. Moreover, in the discussion with the European Commission, the split for the T-1 and T-4 was a very important aspect, just to avoid over-procurement. As far as the IPC is concerned, I would like to inform you that we have not received any values, not yet from anyone. In that sense, it is therefore difficult to stick out of the blue values on them if we would like to revise that further downwards. As far as the EUR 75 price limit is concerned, we have established that there is indeed a much lower offer because of the competitiveness in the auction, which shows that competitiveness in the auction is simply the most important. As for nuclear energy in the CRM, we have chosen the slope of adjusting ineligible capacity. That actually automatically leads to a dummy bid. In that sense, that is the easiest and most efficient way to act. With regard to the derating factors, I would like to emphasise that the derating factors for each auction are recalculated for all technologies. For this purpose, the T-1 auction is also very specific. This illustrates the usefulness and flexibility of the CRM. Let me turn to Gilles Vanden Burre's questions about the price mechanism and the price cap. I have not yet had a full return to the European summit that has taken place today, but the partial return that I have received concerns in particular the single buy(?) and the fact that a flexible platform will be installed between two blocks, between the United States and Europe, in order to be able to buy quantities, volumes of LNG. In the conclusions that I saw pass - I don't know if it was a light version) or the final version - reference is made, in particular, to the Henry Hub Prize, which is the American price reference. If the European Commission concludes such a contract, namely the setting up of a platform with the United States with a Henry Hub price reference, quantities of LNG will be brought to Europe at a much lower price than today because the Henry Hub reference is much lower than today's TTF. This also means that we will again move towards a mix of short-term and long-term contracts. Long-term contracts will therefore be set up again, which will bring stability, in particular to security of supply, on the one hand, and at price, on the other. It can possibly be said that this is a virtual pipeline. There are mostly gas pipelines coming from Russia to the continent. There are also other gas pipelines between Belgium and Norway and between Belgium and the Netherlands. On the map, you see a whole network of gas pipelines coming from Russia. Secondly, there is the LNG market which is a global market and whose most important driver is the price. LNG arrives in Europe when prices are very high. This creates a great vulnerability for the continent because it means that you are never sure. Such initiatives, such as the one between the United States and Europe, can bring stability, especially for citizens and businesses, as this means that quantities of LNG can reach us in Europe. It is important to stress here that short-term measures are needed at the same time with a long-term impact. As I said, we can't organize the business as usual. It is not in our interest to create a relationship with the United States in the very long term, because they still have a lot of gas. It is in our interest to accelerate the energy transition and to be able to dispense with gas. Of course, we must ensure our security of supply, particularly with regard to gas, for the next winter and perhaps the next. But we cannot be structurally dependent on fossil fuels. The situation in Ukraine shows us the immense consequences. Belgium is in favour of a ceiling on the price of energy. As for Spain and Portugal, they propose to intervene in the wholesale electricity market and to decouple gas/electricity. The Italian-Belgian proposal, on the other hand, is to intervene in the gas market. Let me remind you that gas is the problem. Action must be taken to address the main problem, i.e. gas. Electricity is not the problem in itself. We want more electricity, and we want more electricity. Intervention in the market, on the power price mechanism, is much more risky. We would risk slowing down the energy transition, when it needs to be speeded up. But the beauty of the system is that if we intervene in the gas market, we will, at the same time, have an immediate effect on the price of electricity, because the price of electricity follows the price of gas. If we intervene in the wholesale gas market, we will have an automatic decoupling in the electricity market. These are the two major proposals, but we are considering, above all, intervention in the gas market. I have no specific return from the International Energy Agency. For our part, we are awaiting the report of ACER, the European Regulatory Agency. Once the summit was over, we said to colleagues that we had to meet again to implement the main principles that will be decided by the Heads of State with a focus on the joint procurement single buyer and the ensuing price regulation. Some of you talked about the gains. The International Energy Agency has calculated that there are EUR 200 billion of overprofits in the European Union alone. We ask the European Commission to come up with a proposal on this because not all matters can be dealt with at national level, especially since companies are sometimes located outside national borders. At least the government will take its own initiative. The first step to be taken is to ensure that the situation is clear in black and white and objective terms. That wasn't obvious. I refer to how the regulator's report for the period September-October blacked out much of the data, in particular on the excess profits, and considered confidential. That is what I have already sued in committee, which is unacceptable to me. I therefore asked the CREG to review this and share the data. For me, this is a matter of transparency, which I have ensured. The CREG then made some of the data public, some of which found their way to the newspapers last week. Meanwhile, I've asked the CREG to update the numbers again. I also asked her to come forward with proposals by next week at the latest, because the skimming of surplus profits is an absolute top priority for me. The CREG obviously has a great deal of expertise in this area, because it was the CREG, which was the first to make this a point more than ten years ago, which led to the introduction of the nuclear contribution and the repartition contribution. It is also the CREG, which controls the costs of Engie Electrabel in order to assess the nuclear surplus. We must continue to do so, bearing in mind that intervention will be very difficult, given the contracts concluded by previous governments and entered into legislation. In fact, the contract concluded by the previous government with Engie explicitly states that the government may not unilaterally change the nuclear interest rate for Objectives 1 and 2 and the mechanism and therefore also the calculation of the Repartition contribution for Objectives 3 and 4 and Tihange 2 and 3. Today we are bearing the consequences of these past choices. As of 2025, the current government's measures have excluded the excess profits. When we talk about overprofits, we are not just talking about nuclear power plants. I have also always asked to look at this for all technologies. To answer Mr Senesael's questions on nuclear supplies, I would like to point out that the law obviously applies. The law will be reviewed within a few weeks. As I have just explained, it will go to the government and then be tabled in Parliament. The law provides for payment periods in respect of the nuclear commissions each time. In that sense, I am not concerned about that. Mrs Dierick, you had a question about the flexibility of nuclear power plants. I think that the resolution was addressed to the previous government, but it goes without saying that flexibility is very important for us. The two nuclear power plants will account for about 15 terawatts of electricity production, but full power generation will provide about 90 terawatts. This will also increase due to increased electrification. Flexibility is therefore very important, but it is much more than just nuclear power plants. Flexibility will ensure that we will need less capacity, including in the framework of the CRM and the measures we have taken with regard to the VAT reduction for solar panels and more specifically for heat pumps. Elia's flexibility study is based on 200,000 heat pumps by 2030. With the government's measures, we want to speed up this process, which will enable it to be achieved much earlier. This means that flexibility will always be a major challenge and that we will need much more digitisation and artificial intelligence. Flexibility is therefore one of the priorities for the coming period. There was also a question about imports from France. Until now, account has been taken of the unavailability of two nuclear power plants in France, but we see that there are four to six times more unavailability. The calibration report was based on a much more favourable situation. It is clear that we need to take into account the situation in practice. Mr Leysen, you say that it is important in the area of investment to look at where investment makes the most sense. To get an answer to your question, it is enough to read the newspaper every day, about the war in Ukraine. It is enough to look at the decisions of this government. We have to intervene three times on the energy bill. In six months' time, this government has spent nearly 3 billion on urgent intervention on the gas bill, on the electricity bill and on measures for the price at the pump. It is the dependence of fossil resources today, for a large part from Russia, that is draining our economy and draining our wallet. People can't pay their invoices and industry has to shut down production processes. In the daily monitoring we receive from Fluxys, we see a sharp decline in industrial demand. In other words, for a pack of industries in our country it is too expensive to produce. And the reason is that they today have gas and oil as raw materials for some of their processes. Look at the fertilizer sector, plastic. Our industries in the ports today are for a large part fossil based. Asking the question is answering them. Investing in what is most useful? The most sensible thing today is to invest in everything that concerns renewable energy, away from fossil. That will increase the resilience of our economy. That will increase the resilience of our citizens. This will also prevent our public finances from being sucked out by unoffending invoices. These are necessary measures. This government has said not to leave anyone in the cold. It is therefore necessary to intervene on the affordability of the invoice and on the pump. From the point of view of public finances, this is not sustainable in the long term. Policy must be taken to ensure that energy transition accelerates, which makes it more energy independent and allows for a structural reduction in invoices. Is it an ambitious plan? Yes. Is it fast? Yes. Both are necessary. There is no alternative but to act quickly and be ambitious. We will face difficulties and obstacles, but they are there to be solved and eliminated. That's the way I do my job. That is the way we have dealt with various issues over the past year. When we started the CRM, everyone said it would be impossible. The energy standard was discussed for more than ten years, but in the meantime it was implemented. The same applies to nuclear commissions. This government has already proved that it can bring difficult dossiers to a successful conclusion, and that will be no different now. There is no reason to doubt our intentions, because we owe it to our citizens and companies who pay blue to their invoices today. We want to change that structurally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u14	I think you have partly misinterpreted my question, but I will explain it in a moment. I give the floor to Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u15	Madam Minister, I have asked how realistic certain things are and you have made us think that we should be less ambitious. It's not the same thing. If I say tomorrow on the basis of your proposals that we are not going to stick 1 but 5 gigawatt on those floating solar panels in the North Sea, then I am five times as ambitious as you are, but I think I am equally unrealistic. That's where the problem lies. What we want to hear from you is what a number of things are based on. When I talk about those floating solar panels and the proof of concept that will only be rolled out this summer, when you yourself say that we will have to take a number of steps to see what can be done, I do not know how you can promise the government that you will realize 1 gigawatt there. The same applies to what you say about lowering those thresholds. I have asked questions about this very frequently in the past legislature, not only to ministers but also to skeyes themselves. I've been talking to the sector about that. The expectations on both sides are not the same, because they all work from a different logic. There is a lot of knowledge in the energy sector about what can be achieved, but there is little idea of what the framework conditions are for aviation safety. In skeyes, maybe that's the other way around. They know a lot about aviation safety, but they will not know much about how energy can be generated. Those two need to find each other. You have said that you have gone to the wind sector, that you have heard what they think can be achieved in this way and that you have taken that figure. However, what you should have done is bring these two parties together. During the present legislature we had a very interesting hearing with Mr Decuyper van skeyes. He has somewhat dampened my expectations in that regard. If you are going to speak alone with the wind energy sector and not with skeyes, then you are going to put a figure on paper that I wonder where that comes from exactly. If I have understood you correctly, you have simply extrapolated the figure from the Flemish wind energy sector to the whole country. That's why we reached 1.5 gigawatts. That is all very interesting, but I wonder if that is realistic. I had also asked you about the assets that would be possible on government buildings. In this respect, you have given a figure for the Defense Department. However, you also know that I have been asking questions about this for a long time and that there are very few answers to my questions, except that one of your colleagues has replied to me that the government should not do too much because otherwise it may become a supplier of energy. You replied to me at the time that you did not entirely agree with that colleague. However, there is real work to be done to move forward in this area. Today, the Buildings Control is preparing answers in which it claims to have no idea where it can install solar panels because it has no idea of the orientation and the state of the roofs. I therefore wonder which figures you are using. As far as repo protection is concerned, it has always been assumed to date that it is difficult to speak alone with the current concessionaire of a given zone. The holders received a concession for a specified period. However, if you can only talk to them about repo protection, you must exclude a large part of the market. You will then have to say that only those who now have the concession will be given the opportunity to repossess. If we don't, they'll never release or open up their concession. In what way can you proceed there, given the need for market forces? The companies that now have that concession are probably open to it and find opportunities. They will then have the guarantee that they will be able to extend their concession period of 25 or 26 years by possibly the same period. I do not know whether it is so easy to achieve this within the framework of European rules. You say that Belgium is the first country to proceed to repurchase if we do so. Of course, that's not true. I asked you not so long ago about the finding that Denmark has reached certain thresholds in the context of a number of repo projects and has encountered problems, which shows that we need to take sufficient account of them. It is absolutely a mystery to me how Belgium is now suddenly the first country to do repossession. We will take note of your commitment in this regard and see how it will proceed. I asked you why two gigawatts and 10 years were chosen. I know you've agreed to two gigawatts for 10 years, but that doesn't justify that choice yet. Both from the majority and from the opposition there were questions about that ten-year period. Your only answer to that is that this has been agreed. In other words, you entered the meeting with that as a red line for your party. I still don't think that's the right choice. However, you refuse to answer those questions. All you're saying is that you agreed and that this is final. I wouldn't look at things that way, because then you rule out a number of things. Is that in the best interests of the country? You say that we need to switch to more renewable energy. I'll follow you in that. But you must not exclude other low carbon sources. You seem to be doing that here. However, in this way we will in the long term get back into trouble. Anyway, it's part of your package and part of the narrative you build up for that. I have also noted that you refer us to the Minister for Mobility for a number of matters. But I put these questions to you here, because in your note they stood at 8 billion for the nuclear cabinet, together with the question to the nuclear cabinet to give you the task of achieving it and not the Minister of Mobility. If you cannot answer the question as to how this should be done, I wonder why you introduced it to the nuclear cabinet in this way. In that sense, I am still hungry about the energy transition. When I ask whether something can be achieved, you say that I am not ambitious enough, while you, oddly enough, are proposing that we should now be taking on board what we have voted for and voted for in recent years. And you don't call my party ambitious enough? Perhaps I will give you further suggestions in the future. Then you can have them voted away again and repent in another phase and still record them. If that's the way it is, so much the better. Then maybe we'll get somewhere eventually. As far as the organisation of the auction is concerned, the big question is, of course, how you want to proceed with that. In terms of price limits, you indicate that the competitiveness is playing. That does not, of course, explain why you keep it so high, especially since competitiveness may decrease as further rules are laid down. For example, we have discussed the CO2 limit values that you want to impose on the gas plants. In this way you want to push out some old gas plants and replace new gas plants. Depending on what you're doing, we're getting a different competitive edge in that market. The question arises as to how we can take further steps. I'll ask myself a few questions about the way you want to do that. You have not addressed the lock-in that you risk putting 15-year contracts on the market that have to push out the one-year contracts, which means you hold on to fossil energy more than you should. I think you can go faster in some areas. You have made a compelling plea here to reduce our citizens and businesses' dependence on fossil fuels, but on the other hand, you are opting for fossil energy with long-term contracts. I do not fully understand the logic of this. I do not quite understand where you are going to land it. I fear that, above all, we will have to wait for the effective decisions to be taken. In the short term, however, I believe that you need to clarify the role that nuclear energy will play in this. You did not deal with the whole issue around 2027 either, and you did not say much about it. Some people say that this was already known before the agreement was concluded. At the same time, when we discussed the coalition agreement, we saw a very strong Prime Minister, who, by the way, supported you, who said that it was all possible and that it was no problem to keep those nuclear power stations open. It's one thing or the other, the two can't be right. Either you knew from the beginning that there was a problem, or there was no problem at all, and you tried to use it afterwards in your fight against everything related to nuclear energy. That is what we need to look carefully at in what direction that eventually goes and how we can come back to it in the longer term. There is still a lot of work to be done before this becomes a coherent story. The move you have made from a package of EUR 8 billion to a package of EUR 673 million is trying to cover up here by indicating that a number of steps are being taken in this way. You're using numbers that I'm wondering what they're based on. It is not really clear whether they are based on anything, that is a certain concern. I'm glad you're taking up the green unions case here. You will remember that this was a major breakthrough under the previous legislature, in cooperation between Mr Van Overtveldt and Mrs Marghem. EUR 5 billion was raised, but these are not the figures I see in your note today. So I fear that we are now doing a smaller exercise. To be honest, I think it was mainly a matter of communication, to make it clear that you took that turn. For the time being I see very few guarantees to realize some of these things, which is part of the whole picture. If I hear certain ministers say that the race has not yet ended and that it may not be possible for nuclear power stations to be extended at all, I fear that the agreement will be a sham agreement. Then we won't get where we need to go at all. I have the impression that the discussions within the government are as intense as the discussions in this committee. Then I wonder what you will end up with and whether it will be in the interests of our citizens and our businesses, as you have said today. We will continue to ask you questions about this, because there are still many gaps in your story that need to be filled urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u16	Minister, thank you for these comprehensive and detailed answers. I'll be brief by just talking about a few things. First, you answered about the European package and you gave the latest information. I think this is very important because we see both the role that Europe can but above all must play and the leading role that the Belgian Government, thanks to you and the Prime Minister, has also played in these discussions. You also recall that measures such as the combined purchase of gas are emergency measures. If there is one thing that this horrific crisis of war in Ukraine can teach us, it is the lessons to be learned for the future: if European countries come together, it is possible to set up a whole series of mechanisms. We saw him buying the vaccines. We're doing this now for the energy supply. These are essential lessons to be learned for the future, but in a structural way. Indeed, we must not wait for serious crises, as we know them today, to put all this in place. The same applies to the financing of investments in renewable energy. You have to create debt together to do it. That is what we discussed last Monday with the Prime Minister. I believe that all these elements are fundamental, but today we are facing an emergency situation. With regard to your responses to timing, investments in renewable energy and the ongoing discussions with Engie on the extension of the two oldest reactors, I understand that we cannot go any further at the moment. We have full confidence in the mandate given to you by the government, to you and to the Prime Minister, and in the ambitions that are being deployed especially in terms of renewable energy. I will end with a more political point because we are also doing politics in this committee and in this Parliament. I hear the pro-nuclear parties and it is their right to be. In democracy, we can have different energy visions, it's normal and I find it even interesting. These pro-nuclear parties explain to us that in fact this extension of the power plants should have been "as of December 2020", that "the calculations were not good", "we could do it much sooner, faster, much better", "what were we waiting for?", "What have we done?" When I hear that, I think these parties, essentially the colleagues of the MR and the N-VA, were in fact, together under the last legislature. You were able to do this if it was really your pro-nuclear dream, either to extend, or to build new power plants. Again, it is democratic choices that can be respected, even if it is not at all our energy vision. But come and teach the minister or the government today, since you know that the government is collegial, I find that really inappropriate. What did you do from 2014 to 2019? For me, it has been the "black hole" in this country's energy policy for the last 20 years. What did you do? The MR and the N-VA, the two pro-nuclear parties were together with the Energy portfolio. What you did was confirm the closure of the nuclear power plants in 2025. I looked less at the program of the N-VA but the MR even told the citizens in the 2019 elections: "We will confirm the closure of the nuclear power plants and we will deploy nine gas-fired power plants." It was in the MR program. So, come and give lessons today, I find this inappropriate in terms of the credibility of political speech. At some point, let's be a little serious! I want us to have different opinions and to have a democratic debate. But come and give lessons while you were at the controllers between 2014 and 2019, with what you got and what you did, that is, validate the release in 2025 and nothing else, frankly, I ask you a little respect for the credibility of the political word.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u17	Mr President, I listened carefully to Mr Vanden Burre, who pointed out that in democracy we can have different opinions. I am grateful to him for this correction. I will explain to him that a government agreement is being negotiated and executed by the coalition parties that established it. This government agreement, which was negotiated with N-VA, CD&V, Open Vld and MR, did indeed provide for an extension of two nuclear power plants until 2025, namely Doel 1 and Doel 2, to which we referred since there were security of supply problems. These problems do not appear today at first glance but they will reappear much faster than you think. When Mr Wollants said that he had asked specific questions in terms of the volume of capacity in the short, medium and long term and that he had no concrete answer, he was concerned about the strength of that plan and its ability to provide our country with the security of supply to which it was entitled. I deliberately put cost questions aside because it would take us too far. Here, we have focused on how our electrical system will be able to operate and provide the country with the necessary capacity at all times. At the beginning of the previous legislature, I had read the great reports and realized that in the configuration of our country it was important to maintain nuclear capacity beyond 2025. So I told my colleagues. I let myself go and say it by answering a reporter. Screaming from coalition partners who said: "No question! Government Agreement!" We see what you can do today with a government agreement, that is, not much, and we must also push you to accept it and to put it into practice in all its details and in all its elements. So if I give my point of view on the agreement that I had to implement and today's agreement, I think they are completely inadequate in terms of what we need. At any time, you always have to try – and you may find it wrong with my personal and political options – to do better and always try to make sure we succeed together. It is in this sense that we intervene and that is why, beyond the different options that are yours and mine, we must try to reach an agreement. That is why, at the beginning of my speech, I said that, in reality, I have long been in favour of a renewable nuclear mix which, if we want to achieve it, calls for a particularly ambitious plan, certainly, but which must always be focused on the desire to find the necessary capacity to feed our country. This is the first emergency beyond all the ambitions that can be expressed on both sides of the ideological prism. The story will unfold before our eyes and we will see, we will judge people by deeds. If we do not have in 2023, in 2024, in 2025, in 2026 and in the following years the necessary capacity and the fulfilment of the ambitions that are now displayed, we will draw the conclusions! I can assure you that the least of the governments that it is today, the next, the next, that will have supply problems for the country, will have to face great political difficulties to manage. And I warn you! From the moment we lack seriousness on all the technical data, beyond the great snoring speeches of ambition, one day, we take our feet in the carpet, and I tell you! Indeed, the previous government can be criticized and I do not hesitate to do so. We can criticize the current government and I do not hesitate to do so, as long as I do not have a plan that seems solid and consistent to me, to ensure our security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u18	Madam Minister, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to say that it was not nuclear energy compared to renewable energy, it was all about the government's planned investments in renewable energy and hydrogen. We must ensure that these resources are spent in the best possible way. After all, we know that our neighbouring countries are also investing a lot. We must ensure that our investments have the desired results. After all, we still assume that the money does not grow on trees and that we can only spend it once. Mr Vanden Burrre, you said there is a pro-nuclear camp. In any case, as far as we are concerned, we are in favour of an energy policy with good diversification. There is no geo-neutral source. German greens now prefer coal, and buy gas in Qatar. I'm not gonna criticize them. Nuclear energy generates risks, or concerns that need to be addressed. The important thing for me, too, is that we make this necessary transition, without ideological dogma. Everyone has his passions or dreams of youth for which, with militantism, he has committed himself – among the liberals, in all parties. I believe that this is too important a matter for us – and we are doing it at the government level – to find a solution on which we can all agree. I do not want to open a debate on this, but we need to know that there may be new technological developments in the next 10, 20 years. I do not know them yet, but let us not get mad at each other about them, especially within the government and with regard to other policy parties that are our partners in the regions. We need a little realism, not naivety. Madam Minister, I fully agree that we must ensure that we do as little post-factum as possible to solve a price problem that has got out of hand. We cannot go back in time, but if we had invested the EUR 3 billion we are spending ten years ago in the framework of a long-term policy, it would probably have been better, even if we had included interest rates. For the rest, I fully agree that we should all be somewhat modest. All those present here have been responsible for policy over the past 20 years, and we have not paid enough attention to this. We must also be realistic, no one can predict the future. If we could rewrite the past, we would all be smarter. To prove that, the political events that are taking place today, no one had predicted. It's always easy to talk in hindsight, but we don't know everything in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u19	Mr President, in this country we have made far too much of the mistake of wanting to close the nuclear power stations as quickly as possible, with the result that we have been extending for years to what is strictly necessary but not to what is strictly desirable. There is, of course, a large part of the problem. Each party has already made plans here that have subsequently turned out differently. I remember Green campaigning several years ago for the closure of all coal and gas plants in this country. There were already no more coal plants, so that was easy. However, gas plants are now being built up. I remember once, in 2012, proposing to invest in new nuclear power plants of the next generation. Then a Prime Minister, Mr Di Rupo in particular, asked himself which planet the N-VA lived on. Since the government now wants to invest EUR 100 million in small modular reactors, I am no longer alone in this matter. There is no doubt that there are still steps to be taken in this area. We must therefore establish that if certain things can be achieved with nuclear and renewable energy as a whole, the truth lies there somewhere to ensure that we move towards low-carbon sources as quickly as possible. We must not close our eyes to the benefits that nuclear technology can bring. I used to spend a lot of time on the committee with Kristof Calvo, who was able to suggest every time that MYRRHA was a super bad project. Well, Mrs Van der Straeten is probably the minister who has so far been putting the most money into that project. Every once in a while, progress has its rights and steps can be taken. Now the step has been taken to keep a capacity of 2 gigawatts open for 10 years longer. Perhaps the moving insight will soon lead us to 20 years longer with the youngest nuclear power stations. That way we will be even more detached from Russian and other foreign gas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic739x.u20	Whoever has never changed his opinion has never said anything or is not honest.
