ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u1	Mr Minister, I will refer to my written question so that it can be speeded up. We have a difficult agenda today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u2	Have you already commissioned an in-depth study on volunteering in Belgium and the status of the volunteer? What arrangements have you made with the Supreme Court on this matter? What subjects will be examined?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u3	Madam President, I will begin with a number of generalities which Mrs Lanjri, of course, knows. Volunteering is unremunerated work, but organisations can refund the costs that volunteers incur. The legislation provides for two systems: a flat-rate and real cost compensation. These two systems must not be combined. If volunteers in the education sector receive a flat-rate fee, it is limited to €36.84 per day and €1.473.37 per year. The combination of the flat-rate reimbursement and the reimbursement of the real travel costs is possible for up to 2,000 kilometres per year, per volunteer. This limit shall not apply where the activities concern the regular carriage of persons. Where several activities are carried out, the limit of 2,000 kilometres may only be exceeded for the mileage travelled as part of the regular passenger transport activity. Where the total amount of refunds received by the volunteer of one or more organisations exceeds the flat-rate costs, the costs incurred shall be accepted only if the reality and the amount of those costs can be demonstrated by means of documentary evidence. The High Council for Volunteers has already expressed itself in the past in several opinions against increased flat-rate fees for certain categories of volunteers. According to the Supreme Court, the commitment, and not the remuneration, is the essence of volunteering. The compensation must cover the costs and not the time spent. It is also said that it has not been proven that volunteers in the education sector incur higher costs than volunteers operating in other sectors. The increase in ceilings also increases discrimination between organisations which can afford to pay fees and those who cannot. According to the Supreme Court, there is a risk that when the possibilities of combining different sources of unpaid and non-social contributions become increasingly important, these activities change in nature and actually compete with regular work. If the ceilings are not high enough to cover the costs, the law provides, as mentioned above, for a system for the reimbursement of real costs, so that an increase in the ceiling is not strictly necessary. As announced in my policy statement for 2022, a thorough study on volunteering and the status of the volunteer will be launched this year. We do so in cooperation with the Supreme Court and under the care of the Social Security Office. The motivations and experienced limitations of volunteers in the implementation of their activities will be addressed. We will investigate how organisations can receive support to accommodate, train and guide volunteers, the administrative costs of managing volunteers and of covering the costs of preventing health risks. The tender for the study received a positive opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate and was published on 23 May. The study can be launched in autumn 2022. We are very much looking forward to that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u4	Thank you, Minister. You gave some of the same answers as in January. It is a good thing that the study mentioned in the coalition agreement will be launched this autumn. I will not fail to inform you of the results as soon as they are available. So we can have this aspect examined and then decide whether changes are necessary or useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u5	Madam President, Minister, this is a question about the accountability of employers. At the press conference on 13 May and later through the press, we learned a little more about which companies could possibly be sanctioned. Two figures were published. Firstly, about 940 companies with an average of 50 employees have received a kind of flashing light. At least three times as many persons enter invalidity per year among the employees in those companies which meet the age and seniority conditions. Secondly, 190 companies are actually eligible for the sanctions you have decided on, a penalty of 0.625 % on the gross wage mass of that quarter. Mr Minister, how was this calculation and simulation made? Can you elaborate on that? I just gave my own interpretation of what I read in the press, but I would like to know exactly how you came up with that. Is it true that small businesses can never be sanctioned? We saw that, in a sense, the plans are similar to the way in which the number of accidents at work is calculated. In this context, Fedris also draws up a list of sanctionable companies and eventually around 200 companies per year are sanctioned. The Court of Auditors is critical of this method, because it states that this method has no impact. In addition to the question of how this calculation was made, can I therefore ask whether you think that your plans will have a real impact on the number of sick people in the companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u6	Mrs Merckx, it seems to me that, unlike what you are used to, you may not have looked at the answers I have given to very interesting questions raised in this committee, including those of Mr Colebunders. I refer to the questions. 55027658C, 55027657C, 55027659C, to which I replied in committee on 11 May. I could strictly follow the rules and refer to those answers, but don't worry, I'm not going to do that. Let me just remind you of a few things. I replied to Mr Colebunders that I nuance the reservation of the Court of Auditors on the impact of the contributions on the increased risk. We can see that of the companies which paid the contributions in the year x and had to take preventive measures, there are hardly any who in the year x+1 return to the selection of the increased risk, which is an indication that adjustments have been made in the companies concerned by means of preventive actions. As a result of the measure, 575 companies started a prevention plan for the period 2015-2020. In view of the recent adjustments, we estimate that there will be 900 for the period 2021-2026. In particular, I have told your colleague Mr Colebunders that there are considerable differences between the use of the sense of responsibility of companies in the context of the return to work policy and the regulation of the increased risk of accidents at work insurance. According to the government's decisions, some 190 companies would be due a quarterly contribution of overall EUR 1,275,000. I refer to a test run based on data from the years 2019 and 2020. So, on an annual basis, that's over 5 million. It is therefore a contribution to the entire pay mass of the undertaking concerned. This is a difference from the flat-rate contributions that apply in the context of the increased risk. I have also told Mr Colebunders that this contribution is like an ordinary RSZ contribution: its collection is done by the RSZ, with the normally applicable rules and sanctions in case of non-payment. At the same time, I have also told Mr Colebunders that it was never intended to bring about budgetary consolidation measures as such. We want a change in business behaviour and policy. This is also illustrated by the fact that the money does not go to the treasury, but rather to sectoral funds, where they are used for prevention actions which are, of course, agreed in consultation with the trade unions in those funds. For your second and third questions I would like to refer to the answers given earlier, to the debate in this committee on 8 June and to the undoubtedly very interesting debate that we will have after the round of questions on the draft law that is still pending.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u7	Minister, allow me to invite you to look at the timer more and try not to lengthen the answers. Mrs Merckx, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u8	Madam President, Minister, it is no secret that we are following up on this dossier closely and that Mr Colebunders often feels you too. However, following the press conference of 13 May 2022, new information has emerged. You state that it is not quite the same as what happens in the event of accidents. It is not a flat-rate contribution, it is a percentage of the mass of wages. I don't know if that makes a difference. The Court of Auditors is critical of this selection procedure. Very few companies have to pay that penalty or contribution in the end. Although that money does not go to the treasury, but to sectoral funds, we still have the idea of double standards and two weights. There are thousands of companies in our country, of which only 190 would be affected. By comparison, there are 200,000 long-term sick people, namely those who are sick for more than ten weeks each year and who are potentially eligible for that sanction. According to the calculations of De Standaard's journalists, four out of ten long-term patients do not fill in this questionnaire today. So about 75,000 employees could face that sanction. We think that's two sizes and two weights. Due to the fact that these SMEs remain completely out of the question and due to the low weight of that sanction for employers, we wonder whether this will really encourage them to deal with sick people differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u9	Minister, my question is about the long-term sick leave cadastre or the medical card project that will be sent to doctors as part of the return to work. An article on this subject was published in the newspaper Le Soir. It describes quite well a possible consultation in the future: as many days for a back pain, as many days for a depression, as many days for a carpal canal operation, etc. If it is in this way that consultations will take place in the future, the doctor would be required, based on the records he has received, to respect a certain period of work stoppage. Personally, I am not at all against the fact that the authorities are involved, for example in prescribing medicines. We remember the abolition of the Farmaka project, which gave objective information to doctors and which, unfortunately, was abolished by Mrs De Block. In this case, the gift is poisoned. Indeed, you want to reach an activity rate of 80%. You want the sick to get back to work faster. I therefore believe that it is not innocent for doctors to receive about ten cards indicating the number of days of incapacity they must prescribe to patients. What about the physician's autonomy? Do these records take into account the working conditions of the patients that doctors have in front of them? In the event of an accident at work, such as a shoulder tear, medical consultants or insurance doctors, would they not be able to challenge the work disabilities that have been given? They could say, for example, that "three weeks off work is too much because, on the form, it is indicated two weeks" and decide that the person must return to work. If the patient wants to challenge, are these cards not likely to be used against him? My main idea is that many sick people say they want to go back to work when they meet the doctor. The latter also wants to do so and works on the patient's autonomy for the return to work. This, of course, depends on the person's condition, the pathologies of which he suffers, his working conditions, his family situation sometimes, and his means of transport. The questions relating to these sheets are legitimate. How will these sheets be used? Finally, I would like to know how these cards came into being. What are the scientific bases on which you rely to send these sheets to doctors? I have received a lot of comments on this. In my opinion, there is very little scientific literature on the number of days of incapacity for work. It's finally something very subjective. I wonder how you're going to put this in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u10	The chips should support treating doctors who want to accompany a patient and thus help them return to work. It is about providing handles to start the discussion on a return to work in a timely and appropriate manner. For example, these sheets draw attention to the existence of the back-to-work coordinator. When it comes to the duration of incapacity for work, it is recommended in the sheets that the treating physician takes several factors into account when prescribing a break in work. For example, carpal tunnel syndrome or an inflamed wrist nerve, the proposed duration depends on whether the patient performs an administrative function with little manual work or a function with a strong load on the hands. The same fact sheet stresses the importance of examining the company's possibilities of adjusting or changing the workplace. Those sheets were already developed in spring 2017 by the National College for Social Insurance Medicine on Disability of Work, in which medical experts from the various sectors of social security are present. The doctors of the College have developed a first version of these chips for 9 pathologies. At the request of and under the supervision of the College, Möbius' consultants started working with 16 academic experts, 19 medical specialists. These consultants then collected the opinions and suggestions of 27 general practitioners from the field, both Dutch and French speakers, and 15 patients via an online survey. The survey was made possible by the collaboration of the Scientific Association of General Doctors, Domus Medica and SSMG and patient associations. All comments and suggestions are now the subject of integration into the various sheets by the doctors who are members of the College's working group, which is responsible for the dossier. In other words, it is a very broad consultation, to a large extent of general practitioners. As far as the target group of the chips is concerned, I would like to draw your attention, Mrs Merckx, to the fact that we are talking about qualified general practitioners, doctors who receive nine-year training in diagnostics and proposing the appropriate remedy for medical conditions. Examination of the aetiology and differential diagnosis of a pathology is a basic part of a treatment. In addition, if general practitioners themselves are unable to identify the cause or require more expertise in the treatment, they may refer the patient to doctors who have received more specialised training. That process, which you know well, cannot, of course, replace any sheet. The TNW chips are, in other words, not diagnostic tools. They provide advice on when a discussion on a return to work can be included and how this could be done. These are therefore patients who have already been diagnosed and have already received appropriate treatment. This treatment process, in the case of long-term or chronic diseases, is often a multidisciplinary process. The doctors, paramedics or other therapists involved in the treatment will each, from their discipline with the patient, examine how to avoid relapse and how to minimise the impact on functioning. The sheets are also not a legal instrument and not an instrument for counseling doctors, as one of the people in the article in Le Soir is telling you wrongly today. The instrument is intended for general practitioners. Once the chips are ready, we will communicate in an appropriate way together with the medical associations and medical syndicates. Co-Prev and the High Commission of the Medical Board on Invalidity will also be informed, even if the sheets are not intended primarily for them. We do this in particular so that occupational doctors and counseling doctors can properly inform the general practitioners about the existence of the data sheets; inform them and not check them. Finally, adjustments to work are also part of the job of the occupational physician. A general practitioner who finds that changes to work will be necessary will advise the patient to contact the occupational physician. This can be informal, through a visit prior to the work resume. The TNW-fiches for the general practitioners therefore mention the possibility of referral. The example you cite is, moreover, a sick image recognised as an occupational disease. There are very specific rules for this. Again, the chips are therefore an instrument to help, not to check, not to sanction, not to carry out legal procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u11	Thank you for your answers, Minister. From a medical point of view, I think there is a lot to be said about these records. It speaks of light or not light work, but also of the fact that it is not necessary to give an incapacity for work before surgery for a carpal canal. I don't know if these mentions will be in the final version, but it depends on the work of each person. You can't say it's a light, administrative, physical job. Even for physical work, I think there's a lot to say. Then, after the pressure on patients, we face some kind of pressure on mutual doctors and general practitioners. They are confronted daily with patients who want to be helped and they often have ideas about the work a patient could do. But today most people with partial disabilities find themselves facing a boss who tells them that there is no suitable work and gives them their C4 for medical reasons. The general practitioners ask for a real dialogue, that there is a real obligation for the company to adapt the work to the person. I do not think, in any case, that these sheets were requested by the field. I note that this is not a legal instrument that can be used in litigation. However, I have been a general practitioner for 20 years and I know that this can be done quickly so that this instrument can be used in judicial proceedings. I think it's a poisoned gift for general practitioners, which will add pressure to them, which they really don't need.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u12	For this question, too, I refer to my question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u13	In September 2021, I requested an opinion from the social partners in the National Labour Council regarding the amounts linked to the value of the cheques not used within the prescribed period of validity and which remain on the accounts of the issuing companies after their expiry date. The National Labour Council has informed me that the social partners are finishing their advice. They would put forward a structural, clear and pragmatic solution. This solution has been worked out together with the issuing companies and the association VIA, which represents their interests. The National Labour Council informed me that the file will be on the 28 June Council for approval. Then we'll get the advice. As soon as I have received this, I will first of all examine the proposal of the social partners and stakeholders and take them seriously into account. I will do all I can to resolve the problem of the lapsed cheques properly and definitively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u14	Mr. Secretary, I am very pleased. I've been asking for two years. In the past, I had drafted a bill to properly spend that money through the Food Banks. In the end, we decided not to do so, but to give it back to the people concerned, namely the workers. In this sense, over the last two years in this committee, we have each time, by means of an amendment to the programme law that I tabled, ensured that the money from those cheques was not lost and that those cheques were reissued for the benefit of those concerned. That's the way it should be. After all, the Council of State had also made it very clear that this money should not remain at the issuing offices. In the past, that was the case. It is about EUR 5 million a year. So I hope there will finally be a structural solution soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u15	Minister, we have already discussed this during the exchange of views on budgetary adjustment. However, you were unable to answer this question at that time. You would check that and come back to the oral questions. I will therefore put again my original question on the compensation for COVID-19 costs for the OISZ. There is an increase of EUR 2.3 million for commitment and settlement appropriations. In line with the budgetary notifications, an appropriation of EUR 2.3 million is added for the recruitment of staff under the covid plan. There would be 24 full-time equivalents for the RSVZ and 32 full-time equivalents for the Auxiliary Cash for unemployment benefits. Those notifications refer to covid staff within the framework of the covid plan. Have these recruitments already taken place or should these full-time equivalents still be recruited? What functions are we talking about? What does the term covid staff include? Notifications provide that, for these recruitments, a dossier would be submitted to the Council of Ministers by 13 May 2022 at the latest on the need to maintain these recruitments on a structural basis or not. Has that dossier already been submitted and what decision has been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u16	Mr Colebunders, the specific funding from the Social Security Office's budget to the RSVZ and the Auxiliaries should cover the cost of the contractual staff recruited by the two institutions in the course of 2021 to meet the increased workload resulting from the measures taken due to the covid crisis, including bridging rights and temporary unemployment. As regards the Auxiliary Cash for unemployment benefits, in 2021 it had already received a budget of EUR 1,858,000 to address the crisis and hired 60 contractual members at level C, of whom 40 were already employed in 2020. These appropriations were cyclical and related to the corona crisis. In 2022, a budget of EUR 1,237,000 was allocated to 32 contractual entities to continue to cope with the effects of the crisis. The staff concerned for 2022 is therefore already at work. The additional staff will generally ensure continuity of work on unemployment for citizens. Many functions have indeed been put under pressure during the crisis, especially due to the huge increase in temporary unemployment. This required a strengthening of file management, verification, payment processing and a strengthening of the contact centre to provide essential first-line assistance. Although the pressure has decreased slightly, activity is still higher than before the crisis. The Auxiliaries' share of the total number of claims also remains higher. Ex post controls on payments for 2021, which are extensive, are also still being carried out. This justifies the maintenance of a number of staff who strengthened the services in 2022. In 2021, 53 people would be recruited within the RSVZ, but in the end only 24 were recruited through a first contract of employment. In 2022, the contract of the 24 recruited persons was renewed. They were recruited to manage covid files. The Committee on Budgetary Control for 2022 has decided that the structural nature of staffing needs and the maintenance of staffing appropriations will be the subject of an overall dossier to be submitted to the Council of Ministers in the coming years. The request for referral to the Council of Ministers has been delayed, but the intention is to present such a global dossier before the summer recess. For the Auxiliaries, work is still under way on the structural commitments. However, this has not yet been submitted to the Council of Ministers. The Auxiliary Cash is updating the estimated needs for 2023, in order to determine whether it is necessary to maintain covid staff in whole or in part by 2023. The RSVZ will apply for a structural extension of the 24 full-time units as part of the budgetary work for 2023. That was a very concrete state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, but I understand that there is no agreement on everything and that it has not yet been submitted to the Council of Ministers. This also means that not all recruitments have yet taken place or should not be taken into account. Let us be honest, it would be a welcome concession for the staff at both the RSZ and the HVW, which has been able to work really hard over the past couple of years. In the end, all this benefits the citizens. He expects a service government that organises, regulates and performs in all areas. However, this cannot be done with undermanned and poorly organised public services. Take a look at how people have had to wait for their unemployment benefit during the corona period, despite the great commitment of the staff of the Auxiliaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u18	There may be some confusion, Mr Colebunders. I replied to the question you asked about what recruitments were taking place. The dossier with which we go to the Council of Ministers is about what becomes structural and permanent. That is the political debate that is still to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u19	Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u20	While the resources of the co-ordination committee are being used for other purposes and the operation of the committee is being transformed into an after-care scheme, item 24/16.1.1.00.02 of the Commissioner's betting and representation costs remains EUR 660,000. The original amount was 960,000 euros. If there's no more corona commissioner, I understand that budget needs to be adjusted. However, I find it strange that EUR 660,000 should be allocated to the Commissioner's betting and representation costs. In my opinion, that is more than the wager and representation costs of a minister. For a Commissioner who is being cut down and whose budgets are being tilted into other services, I think that is very strong. Do you know more about that amount and can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u21	That amount doesn't concern one person. That's the whole misunderstanding. It concerns different remunerations, the head of the post-care cell and redundancy allowances for one member. Let me explain in detail. The appropriation at the base allocation 24/16.011.00.02, intended for staff expenditure, was reduced from EUR 966,000 to EUR 660,000 (the amounts you mentioned) in the budgetary control 2022, taking into account the following elements: 1) the expenditure already incurred for the Covidec at the beginning of April 2022, EUR 278.641 in commitments and EUR 268.641 in liquidations; 2) the remuneration to be paid to the Commissioner for April 2022, then estimated at EUR 50,000; 3) any redundancy allowances to members of the Decommissioned Commissioner, then estimated at EUR 149,000; 4) the remuneration of the Head of the aftercare cell, estimated at EUR 138,000. Since the end of the Commissioner's term of office, the salary of the head of the post-care cell and two months' redundancy allowance for one member have already been charged. On 13 June, at that budget allocation, EUR 290.292 was still available in commitment appropriations and EUR 299.559 in clearance appropriations. That's how I gave you the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation of that point. You understand how confusion arises, because when it says "Commissioner," it refers to one person. If you say it's about the coronac commissioner now, it'll make everything much clearer. We hope, of course, that we will not need any more in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u23	Minister, several requests and attentions are coming back from the sectors to reconsider and review the reform under way on the status of workers in the cultural and artistic world. In this respect, a common union front and a mobilization of the cultural world from different sectors (plastic arts, cinema, living arts, etc.) but also movements like group F(s), gathered under the banner "Culture in Struggle", were present under the windows of your cabinet on Friday, June 10. They wanted to question you about the projects in progress. Do you hear this signal and their requests that go so far as to reinitiate the work done because they consider the project unacceptable as it is? Minister, have the offices in charge of reform received them on this occasion? What about yours? If so, for what results? What exactly are their expectations and demands? Furthermore, have you received the various opinions and contributions expected on the reform – mentioned on 10 or 11 June – of the partners from the social dialogue and civil society? If so, can we read about it? How do you react to it? How do you see the adaptation of the texts to the recommendations and suggestions that emerged from them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u24	Minister, I am replacing my colleague Mrs Moscufo who usually deals with this issue. Indeed, as my colleague has said, the publication of the latest texts on the reform of the statutes of art workers raises serious concerns on the part of the cultural and trade union world. Various mobilizations have followed and are still under way. One of their fears concerns the scope of the reform: who can benefit from the status of artist? Why are the criteria so subjective? What will be the inclusion of technicians, to name but a few? Why did you de facto exclude certain professions in the reasons for the bill? The second concern concerns the issue of the new Arts Labour Commission. Will cultural workers really be represented? Why don't they have a preponderant path? Why is there no real appeal procedure? The third concern concerns the question of access to and renewal of the rules relating to the Statute: why such cumbersome procedures? Why did you add financial criteria? Why have the renewal rules been tightened? These are just a few questions and fears that we have heard from all stakeholders in the sector in recent weeks. Indeed, everyone seems unanimous that your reform project needs to be thoroughly reviewed. So, what about the different opinions you asked for, including that of the NTC? Following the many criticisms of your reform project, are you now going to consult again with the sectors, with a view to really taking their demands into account? If so, with which organizations will you sit around the table? The various actors in the world of culture have already sent you opinions and proposed changes. Have you ever made any adjustments? If so, which ones? Finally, can you present us with the upcoming agenda for this reform? What are you going to do and with what timing? When do you expect to come to Parliament with the bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u25	Minister, at the beginning of May 2022, the parties of La Vivaldi had announced with great communication an agreement with the sector. However, over the past few weeks, more and more voices have been raising against your reform of the status of artist: UPACT, Culture in Struggle, F(s), trade unions, many structures that demand that the text be revised and amended. They consider that your reform proposal "has undermined progress, hijacked the principles of the amendments, turning against its expected beneficiaries". You have the impression that it's even worse than what exists today. They point out that there is no guarantee of access to the future status for professions which are currently excluded from it, that some current beneficiaries may be excluded by the new Commission. Arbitrary controls, formerly exercised by the ONEM, will now be exercised by this commission. There are also problems with the criteria used, the income threshold, the coefficients of the reference periods in the unemployment component, the claim of illustrators to copyright, the distribution workers and various technical occupations which would be put at risk. Significant concerns about your bill are also relayed to us by the directors of the arts colleges as the services provided by artists as teachers in a higher arts school would not be valued as artistic benefits because the bill would specifically exclude them. Minister, have you heard and taken into account the sector's major concerns? Do you agree to reopen discussions and negotiations with the sector to turn this status into a bill that allows positive progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u26	Minister, I will give you the floor for six minutes. There are a lot of questions. I'll let you know when the allotted time is up. Perhaps we will have to come back to it at a later stage in view of the large number of questions. We can always consider it in another form.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u27	Ms. Fonck, in particular, asked a lot of questions. Madam, I think there are a lot of misunderstandings in what you are saying, but the time is too short for me to expand. In short, we are investing tens of millions of euros in the social protection of artists. It is difficult to interpret this as a regression. These are important advances. Tens of millions of euros are invested. Secondly, a series of proposals have been fully implemented and are at the stage of opinion procedures. I'll focus on that. Since the beginning of the legislature, my collaborators have been working with the art community almost every day. We listen to their comments and questions and then integrate them into our regulatory work. It is precisely to give these voices a place in this reform that we have opted with the federal government for a broad participatory process called "Working in the Arts". Innovation was very important and the process of innovative participation. As you pointed out last Friday, a delegation of demonstrators was received by the collaborators for an interview. They also spoke to many protesters individually in order to get a better idea of their concerns. The delegation received consisted of several people who were already involved in the participation process, both in the technical working group and in discussions with the social partners within the National Labour Council or management committees. We noted their comments, but we also invited them to submit them also within the framework of the formal opinions which were expected on the same day: the opinion of the Working in the Arts Technical Working Group, the NTC's second opinion and the opinion of the management committees of ONSS, INASTI and ONEM. With regard to the French-speaking sector of higher education, we invite it to make its comments known through one or more partners with a formal right of opinion. They can also express their concerns through the Communities during the working group of the Interministerial Conference Culture or ask for an informal bilateral discussion with my colleagues. What I can say about this – but we can't really exhaust the debate – is that with regard to the treatment of income which is, for example, received in the context of a function in an educational institution, these incomes are taken fully into account in the calculations on the basis of which the entitlement to unemployment benefits is determined. These revenues do not form part of the conditions for the admissibility of accreditation files as an artist. But for the rest, these revenues are fully taken into account. I think there's still a lot of misunderstandings here. For the time being, I have not yet received all the notices I have listed. We have already received the opinion of the Fédération des arts en amateur, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, the Conseil d'État and the Technical Working Group Working in the Arts. We hope to receive most of the other opinions shortly. As soon as we have received all the opinions, the relevant ministers will work on appropriate texts that will be discussed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u28	Thank you, Minister. Again, I understand that we don't come back here in six minutes, in all the specific questions. It will be worth it, one day, to imagine a wider exchange of views on the subject. In fact, I think that you have put this idea into practice through evenings of encounters with the arts workers. We are here today in committee and you are always welcome if you want to do a similar exercise, of course. I'd just like to remind you of one thing. As you know, we have always supported the work, the consultation and the principle of participation, which was particularly innovative. That was our condition for moving forward on this reform. Today, you remind us that there is daily consultation. I've already asked you and you'll remember. Indeed, therefore, I do not understand well. We feel at this stage, today, a kind of breach of trust. We are looking forward and looking forward to the opinion of the CNT, but I personally, as well as the environmentalists in this Parliament, find it difficult to understand why all of a sudden there is a breach of trust that has not taken place so unanimously so far. I guess we'll have time to get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u29	Minister, you say you have conducted all possible consultations. I note, however, that the sector's concerns are there. Some speak of a "simulac de concertation". I'm not saying it. That is what has been said among the demonstrators among others. Despite an announcement that everything would be settled, there are real concerns on the ground today. I would like to comment briefly on some of the claims. Instead of moving forward with this bill, some things need to be revisited in the light of these concerns. We must ensure that we have objective criteria in the concept of artistic work and that we have a true inclusion of all the professions of the arts, including technicians. The so-called peripheral activities must be taken into account. We must ensure that the Commission really represents the diversity of the sector, that real workers who also know the reality of the field sit there and that they have a leading voice. As for the certification and the rules on unemployment, they asked to review the conditions for access and renewal with a view to facilitating them. There is a need to provide appropriate remedies. Maternity and other periods of inactivity must be taken into account. There is a real need to facilitate access to young people. There will also have to be a review of the stamp rule, a genuine administrative simplification and a genuine quality of employment in the sector with decent wages. I can only encourage cultural workers to make themselves heard more. I know that some will also be present, on Monday 20 June 2022, at the big demonstration for an increase in wages because, in the end, this is what it is about. It is about their purchasing power and their conditions for being able to live in dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u30	Mrs Merckx, having gone past the timing myself, I did not see myself cutting you off, but I invite you to try to respect it. I know it's complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u31	Mr Minister, you are talking about misunderstandings, but on the contrary I think that a serious analysis of the texts has been carried out by the various representatives, who are quite numerous and whose analyses converge. Trust is obviously no longer there, but I think it goes further. The disappointment seems immense. The content of the texts is denounced. It is not possible to talk about misunderstandings from all this and to sweep them with a back of the hand. Today, opinions have been given to you and others are likely to follow. I can only call on you to take into account what is communicated to you and the proposals for the development of the text. Let us make this status of artists a success and not something that is clearly beside the plaque for a whole series of points, yet fundamental, that were at the heart of the demands of the sector and the promises that had been made by the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u32	Madam President, I do not agree at all to speak of a breach of trust. There is no breach of trust! There are critics as always. There are people, organizations who are critical of what is being presented, after a very long process of unprecedented participation. We are also presenting this on the ground. Last night, Pierre-Yves Dermagne and I were at the KVS, the Flemish Royal Theatre, to present the project. They were Dutch-speaking artists. They were delighted, very positive. Read what is published today in De Standaard. I don't know the author, but it's a very positive white card. Is that a surprise? No, because tens of millions of more are invested in the protection system for artists, with an increase, which is unique for artists, of minimum unemployment benefits, with very tolerant account being taken of periods of work, with the fact, Mrs Fonck, that the income received in the course of a profession of teacher or teacher in an educational institution in the arts is fully assimilated to the income received for artistic activities as independent or under a contract 1a, etc. So there's a lot of misunderstandings, I think. There is obviously a need to listen to criticism, but this reform introduces a completely renovated system of protection after a long process of participation. In any case, last night, the audience was extremely positive, after explanations by Pierre-Yves Dermagne and myself. It is absolutely incorrect to say that there is a breach of trust! There is debate, criticism, action. This is quite normal and constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u33	Minister, you had a meeting yesterday, and you'll probably have others tonight and next week. I'm not sure everyone will share your opinion. Friday morning, it was your collaborators who received the people who were in front of your firm. Now you're gonna meet them yourself. We will come back to you about this exchange and to know your impressions. For my part, the returns I receive are destabilizing in relation to the participatory process in which you had engaged, and which we had supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u34	Madam Chair, since the minister wanted to speak again, I think we have the right to a reply. Minister, you said you met some of the artists who were delighted. We remember the whole discussion about the status of physician assistants where some were happy and others were not. The realities on the ground sometimes depend on the region in which we are located. We know that culture has been regionalized. Sometimes situations are quite different. I can only see it. An article from the RTBF quotes a lady who explains not knowing any artist around her who will be able to meet these conditions. She says that this is strictly impossible and that it will have to be proven that artistic work has been indispensable for the realization of the project. How can we prove this? This creates a difference between artists and technicians. Is driving a truck essential for a project? I'm just making a point. If you want to answer, there is no problem, but in any case, it is the concerns of the people who have read the texts and who say that they will not finally be able to enter the conditions in order to have access to this text. If you have anything to reassure them, do it. I have only taken up a little testimony because I am also held by time. But I think there are concerns. A true recognition of the work of artists - specifically women artists who have been very concerned - must be taken into account. These are realities that need to be taken into account and the project needs to be amended in the direction of criticism, I think. Indeed, there are already tens of millions, but it may take a few tens of millions more, because ten million is not, in the end, much given the budget of our state and our social security. You have to be honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u35	Minister, I think it will be very complicated if we continue the exchange. I shall leave the floor to Mrs Fonck. But I reiterate the invitation: an exchange of views on these issues, in a few days or weeks, would perhaps be interesting. In fact, I have the impression that it would be complicated to exhaust the subject now. I will let Mrs Fonck answer, but I think that if we engage in this discussion in greater depth, it will be very complicated for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u36	We will see that there are a lot of misunderstandings and that things that are said here are totally incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u37	I really invite you, if everyone is willing and available to do so, to take a time in committee to address this issue in more depth; because we are really going to overflow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u38	Madam President, Minister, if the sector were to tell me that everything is fine, I would be the first to be delighted. I would be willing to work on texts to advance the cause of artists, perhaps even faster than expected. But you can't deny what's ours. You say and repeat that these are misunderstandings. I'll do whatever we want. But what comes to us clearly comes from people who know the subject matter, who know the reality of status today, who have looked at and analyzed the texts, including on plural realities in culture. There are very pluralistic realities in culture. The trades are different. There is the question of how they can, yes or no, prove that the work done has really been essential to the realization of the project. The criteria have been substantially changed for renewal from what existed. I can take a lot of examples from you. I am not going to do this: I do see that the time is ticking. Minister, here you have three parliamentarians who are calling on you, two of whom are from the opposition and one from the majority. We've all been stopped by the field. We're not inventing and telling stories. Take the time to take into account the pluralistic reality of the cultural sector, to examine the problems that arise on a point-by-point basis. To see the answers, the solutions that can be made. There is probably also some of the solutions in the federal domain, but also in the responsibilities and powers of the Communities. Hold an interdepartmental conference as a matter of urgency to see how, together, additional responses can be provided. Just don't brag about texts today because you're happy with them. I just want to tell you to take into account the reality of the field. If some points are misunderstandings, then raise them. With what comes to us, I don't think it's just misunderstandings. Clearly, lines must absolutely still move and evolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u39	I still want to...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u40	Minister, in this case, you are resuming a turn of speech. As chairman of this committee, I am striving for two things.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u41	Yeah, because we're missing everything. Can I be quite concrete? They say things that are totally next to the plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u42	I am trying to ensure that the busy agenda is respected and that I myself do not get into the substance of the debate, as important as it is. I have also heard things the content of which would deserve to be stopped a little bit. I refrain from doing so because it is not on the agenda of the day. You know I'm a little psychorigid about the agenda. If it is felt that an appointment must be made to discuss this issue and to remove misunderstandings, the services will be happy to find a time slot for us to do so. But this afternoon it's not possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u43	Madam President, after all this commotion, I will restore peace in the barracks. Minister, I do not want to count the debates on the new sanctions for long-term patients. You mentioned several times that the penalties for non-cooperation with reintegration already exist and are applied on the basis of Article 134 (2) of the Law of 14 July 1994 on compulsory medical care and benefits. On the basis of that shipowner, you even claim that you would have reduced these already existing sanctions from 100 % to 2.5 % of the benefit. In the recent opinion of the RIZIV worker benefit management committee on the draft Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996, I read something completely different. An expert of mutuality states the following: "The cornerstone of the system and benefit insurance is to determine the required percentage of minimum 66 % incapacity for work. Until now, a suspension has been provided for only if the member did not register with the insurance institution's medical adviser on the date of the planned examination for the assessment of incapacity for work. Although the return-to-work path is done on a voluntary basis, a penalty will now be imposed if the insured person does not respond to the invitation of the consulting doctor or the return-to-work coordinator, even if he would subsequently follow up on a new call. Do you contradict the opinion? Do you think that sanctions exist outside the strict framework of the assessment of incapacity for work? If yes, what is the size of the number of sanctions outside the framework of the assessment of incapacity for work? Is this about several, tens, hundreds, thousands or zero sanctions every year, for example for the years 2000 to 2021? I also refer to the oral question by my colleague Mr Merckx, which was put in a written question on 18 October. To date, however, it has not been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u44	Madam President, I will not explain for the 35th time that back-to-work paths are voluntary pathways. People have to be motivated and choose to get back to work. Here's what I've been saying. The current rules on employee benefit insurance provide that the grant of benefits is to be discontinued as long as the beneficiary does not fulfil the control obligations imposed on him by any person competent under the coordinated law of 14 July 1994 (Article 134 (2) of that law). If, therefore, the person entitled to benefits who is unfit for work does not submit to the medical examination of, for example, the medical practitioner, without valid justification, the grant of the benefits shall cease. If, in the end, the person entitled does offer medical examination, he may again claim the benefits. The draft for discussion in this committee provides for the following. If a person is summoned by the medical adviser in the context of the question as to why he has not completed the form in question and if that person repeatedly refuses to go to the medical adviser, a penalty of 2.5% is possible. However, the 100% penalty that could be applied is not applied. As regards the number of existing suspensions under that Article 134, § 2, I give the figures for 2019 as the figures for 2020 have been influenced by covid. In 2019, 4 800 suspensions were issued by the medical advisors for those entitled to primary incapacity for work and 1.480 for those entitled to invalidity. It's almost all about absenteeism for a medical examination. What part of the assessment of the state of incapacity for work does it account for or a study of the possibilities for reintegration? That's not the point. I don't have the subdivision in those cases either. It concerns people who have not offered and who have been sanctioned for it. We're talking 4,800 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u45	Madam President, Minister, I insist that you distort the facts and continue to distort them. The existing penalty of 100 % is really about being sick and not being sick. We agree on that. So it's about being sick and getting or not getting benefits. That is what we are talking about now, namely that 100 percent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u46	Mr Colebunders, no, it is about the following. The text states that it concerns a person who does not comply with the control obligations imposed by a competent person under the coordinated law. That's what this is about. It is not about finding that someone is not being evaluated or examined at any particular point. Article 134 (2) provides that the person concerned does not submit to the control obligations. That's what this is about. A medical examination can allow all kinds of things, such as an assessment of disability or return to work. For decades, however, all this has been the responsibility of the advisory doctors. Your interpretation is therefore wrong. You just have to read the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u47	Madam President, Minister, it is important that we know this whole subdivision. After all, even the mutualities point out to you that there is no such thing. That says an expert on mutuality and not us. Did you listen to the quote I read to you earlier? That quote doesn't come from a PVDA pamphlet. Moreover, there is the fact of those 100 % sanctions. That's just about not offering. That's equal to not being sick. What's someone else getting caught on? or with the pure fact of being sick or not being sick. That's what this sanction is about. We will not agree on the foregoing. However, I assume that the debate will continue shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u48	Minister, in March 2022 I questioned you about the agreement you concluded with the Flemish government on the supervision of long-term sick people. You replied to me that the federal sanction on the benefit of the sick person will not apply to the route the sick person takes to the Flemish Employment Service or one of his partners. That is also clear from the bill you put forward here. The explanation is consistent with your statements about the alleged voluntaryity of the routes from the intake via the back-to-work coordinator. However, in the agreement I read the following: "A journey is not without obligation. Efforts and commitment to cooperation are expected at any time in the process." Last week, the new Flemish minister of work Jo Brouns announced that he wants the VDAB to break out and also to visit the long-term sick in the pain clinics and the rehabilitation centers. At the VRT he added: "That's where you can draw the red card if people don't intercede, if they don't comply with the agreements." I have a few questions about that. How can a voluntary journey not be voluntary? On what enforcement are you and your Flemish colleagues in this agreement? Is the Flemish Minister able to draw a red card for people who do not allow mediation or comply with agreements? Do you agree to his statements or his approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u49	Mr Colebunders, I said earlier that you should just read the article in the law, here you should just read the cooperation agreement, which could help a lot. The cooperation agreement makes it very clear that we want to focus on opportunities, it makes it very clear that choosing to work is a voluntary choice, but of course there is also a commitment. That commitment is also included in the procedures. People who start the route agree with a declaration of commitment. This commitment is a commitment of both the government, the return-to-work coordinator and the consulting doctor as well as the person concerned. It is normal that people are sometimes reminded of their commitment. That is not the same as sanctioning or maintaining in a brutal manner. I quote from the agreement with the Flemish Government: "Both the federal and the Flemish institutions commit themselves to her/him" - that is the patient concerned - "to be clearly and fully informed, so that the person can make this commitment in a well-founded manner. In addition, we are committed to strengthening and empowering, so that those involved do not have to undergo but participate actively in, decide and steer as much as possible in their journey to work."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u50	Minister, you will agree with me that you and your Flemish colleague are creating grey areas here. One day it's all voluntary, the other time it's not noncommittal and there's a threat of red cards. If it is already very unclear to us, what about the people on the ground who are facing illness? It is up to you, Minister, to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u51	Madam President, Minister, we have already discussed in this committee several times the two-year penalty period that people have been taking up since the beginning of this year if they have not paid their membership money for mutuality for too long. Since the beginning of this year they have lost their right to both the supplementary services of the mutualities and the supplementary insurances, such as dental care. In the latter case, even if they paid that insurance properly. In recent months, you have referred to negotiations between you, the mutualities and the associations of poverty. But I don't see anything moving. I am therefore concerned about the progress made on this dossier. In addition, the negotiations appear to be mainly between mutualities. What's your timing? When will you publish the updated legislation? Will the penalty period, as announced, be reduced to six months, and this for all concerned? Will the revised rules apply retroactively from 1 January 2022? Is a six-month sentence the legal minimum? Could that be any shorter, in theory? In contrast to previous times, I would ask you to answer these questions as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u52	Mr Colebunders, as previously announced, I have asked the National Mutualist College to propose a change to the regulations to shorten this period of internship for those in a situation that is worthy of care, in accordance with the organisations of and for people in poverty. Following dialogue with these organizations, the College drew up proposals on this subject which were converted into four preliminary draft royal decrees and a preliminary draft ministerial decision by the Health Insurance Office and the National Associations of Health Insurance Funds. I have to submit these texts to the various bodies of the Audit Office for advice. The Audit Office shall finalise these texts in accordance with the opinions sought. The texts indeed provide for them to be introduced on 1 January 2022. The solution proposed is to shorten the current 24-month waiting period to a minimum of six months for the persons concerned. The duration of the waiting period represents a compromise between the objective of the amendments and the mandatory nature of the affiliation to the supplementary insurance services, as provided for in the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u53	You say minimum. Could that be more, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic821x.u55	You must always be careful what you say. Minister, this is one of the issues on which we agree in substance. I'm just worried about timing. Some things cannot be done quickly enough, and we agree on that. Other things take far too long. From 24 to six months is an improvement, I admit, but why can't it be two months? I have the impression that this is possible, but I'm not sure you really want it. I don't understand why not, and I'm really sorry about that.
