ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic760x.u1	Minister, yesterday your cabinet communicated extensively with the regional channel regarding your decision to open a complaint procedure on the basis of Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is therefore a formal notice of formal notice and a complaint procedure. It's been a while since I've questioned you about this file. What contacts have there been since and on 24 January? Then you announced a contact with France to see if a solution could still be found to avoid the legal procedure. Apparently that's been fruitless. The second track is Lille. That's where you'll be with the local authorities. Is there a procedure at the French Council of State? Is there any clarity about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic760x.u2	On 19 October 2021, the Lille Court decided to refer the case brought against the developer to the French Council of State. The French authorities were also involved in the proceedings. Both the French government and the developer had two months to respond to the petition. They didn't do that. In doing so, I note that the French legal system operates differently from ours. In France, therefore, it is possible not to respect the deadlines laid down. There are no consequences in itself. It is now waiting for the Council of State to impose a mandatory date for the submission of a reply. The procedure may then continue. The Council of State has, in principle, 12 months to reach a decision; that is also a time limit without consequences. As regards your second question, I can confirm that yesterday we sent a letter of formal notice to the European Commission by letter to the President of the European Commission. Indeed, the Commission has for some time started a conciliation process, in which we have participated constructively. Moreover, we believe that a negotiated solution is better, faster and more legally secure than a legal procedure. The solution is available: the park shifts 5 kilometers deeper into the sea to the north. However, the many discussions we have had in all possible places, including Paris, have not produced any results. That is why, in close consultation with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have decided to submit a letter of formal notice. The Commission now has three months to give a ruling on this matter. Once it delivers a reasoned opinion, or if it does not give a ruling, our country can go to the European Court of Justice. We are now waiting to see what Europe decides or does not decide. That does not alter the fact that Belgium keeps the door open for dialogue. The door remains open, dear friends. If France shows the willingness to move the park tomorrow, we will sit again around the table. If a solution acceptable to all can be found in good time, I am even prepared to withdraw the complaint. This file remains a priority for the government. I will therefore continue to monitor this closely and will not fail to inform you of it. I would also like to express my gratitude to all interested parties, including the port of Ostend, our coastal communities, the federal services and the Flemish Region, for the serenity with which this dossier can be dealt with, for the good cooperation and for the trust they give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic760x.u3	Mr. Secretary, you are more and more like Emmanuel Macron. Sitting in a chair and with another outfit you can look even more like the victor, because you would look even sexier. The said procedure was rarely used in the history of the EU, and apparently for the first time between Belgium and France. Of course, we can agree that you leave your door open for dialogue. However, the whole procedure has been going on for about two years now, and from that history I have little hope, so I think that the matter will have to be settled legally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic760x.u4	Madam President, Minister, in this government's view, the North Sea must evolve into an interconnected and large power plant. Until 2030, some 2,500 windmills will be installed in the North Sea alone. This, of course, also increases the risk of accidents. A number of safety concepts were tested in the Netherlands a few weeks ago. In an initial arrangement, an anchored line with buoys as a kind of guardrail should prevent a ship from drifting to the windmills. In a second setup, a net between poles is stretched to stop drifting ships. In a third method, an anchored hook line is placed under water, in which the anchor of the drifted ship gets stuck. The direct cause for the test was the incident with the cargo ship Julietta D, which drifted into the North Sea in January, right in the area where a wind farm off the coast of Noordwijk is being built. In doing so, the ship first sailed against a tanker and then against a transformation platform under construction and the foundation of a wind turbine. We can't minimize this case. On average, 80 times a year, a ship drifts into the North Sea. More and more wind farms also pose a greater potential risk of collisions. Minister, how do you assess these security concepts? Do you consider it useful to apply this, especially in the future, in the Belgian context, given the increasing role of offshore production in Belgian territorial waters? Is this also an aspect that is taken into account in the discussion about the planned French park on the Belgian border, which we were talking about just now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic760x.u5	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, as you know, on 18 February this year we also had a ship in Belgium, the Nimbus Maersk, which ended up in one of our Belgian wind farms during a storm. We look with particular attention at any study or proposal that may prevent collisions between ships and windmills. The safety concepts studied by that institute are certainly interesting, but require additional research. If nets or cables are placed in the sea, vessels may also be caught from pleasure or fishing therein. Such small vessels will no longer be able to get out of this on their own, which can also cause a dangerous situation. Before installing such structures, the impact on all types of vessels should also be considered. Your second question. It is, of course, useful to consider what measures can be taken in the North Sea. As a result of the incident, my services have already been in contact with the operators of the Belgian wind farms in order to find out what measures are useful and necessary. A first study will be launched at the beginning of 2023 to identify the types of ships and engine power that pose a risk of drifting, taking into account the weather conditions. On the basis of the results of this study, action may then be taken in the event of severe weather conditions against those ships which pose the greatest risk. These ships can then, for example, be kept away from the wind farm or brought to a port as a matter of priority. I come to your third and final question. The safety of shipping is also one of the elements that we take into account in the discussion with France about the wind farm. The French authorities have even issued directives on this subject, respecting a minimum distance around a wind farm. However, this 2016 note also says that no wind farms should be built in the vicinity of shipping routes. The project developer EMD will carry out the necessary studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic760x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that attention is being paid to the potential danger and look forward to the study to be tendered at the beginning of next year, which will identify the types of ships that require a targeted approach. It is true that the French are in contradiction with themselves. The problem of the route and the French plans is well known and I hope that the operator EMD will come up with some sensible solutions.
