ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, the European directive on the protection of whistleblowers was to be transposed into Belgian law by 17 December 2021. In the government agreement, it was stated that it would be transposed within the time limit. You had recently reiterated that will in your policy note. Yet it is still not implemented. At the same time, the resignation of Alexandra Jaspar, Director of the Data Protection Authority (DPA). With her colleague Charlotte Dereppe, who is still in office, she says she has been subjected to reprisals and threats for drawing attention to ODA conflicts of interest a year and a half ago. Parliament itself, in charge of this case, decided to launch a procedure which could lead to the dismissal of these two whistleblowers rather than to prosecute the persons in question. Minister, do you stand in defence of these two whistleblowers who are subjected to retaliatory measures for wanting to defend the rights of citizens? When do you intend to transpose the European directive? This was not done on time. Why the delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the important European directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law should normally be transposed by mid- or end of December 2021. You mentioned in your policy paper that you would do so at the beginning of 2022. However, I was alerted by an article in the press, in which you mentioned the summer of 2022, which I considered contradictory to your statements in your policy paper. On the other hand, I was charmed by the fact that you would not limit the subject of transposition to the European directive, but that you would also include the protection of those who mentioned other matters, probably national legislation, in that legal process. I welcome that, of course. My questions to you are therefore the following. First of all, what is the reason for the delay? I realise that it is not the first time that our country has failed to transpose directives in good time. What are the risks? Secondly, can you give us an exact timing now? After all, I read in the press that the texts were ready. Thirdly, on what points do you wish to apply the directive more broadly than the European whistleblowers directive sets out and asks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, in fact Belgium had committed itself to transposing the new directive on whistleblowers by 17 December. We're already late. I regret that, and I call on the government to put more effort into this transposition so that it can be adopted as soon as possible. I would also like to point out that there is already a framework in our country for the protection of whistleblowers, both in the public and financial sectors. As far as the public sector is concerned, I am referring to the Act of 15 September 2013 on reporting a suspected violation of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of its staff. I have a number of questions for you, minister, since I believe that the protection of whistleblowers is fundamental in a democracy. Imagine, for example, a situation in which a director of the Data Protection Authority (DPA), who would denounce potential abuses that could constitute a breach of the law and a threat to the general interest - imagine this person, and this case. Does this fall within the scope of the Act of 15 September 2013? If not, why not? Do you not consider that all whistleblowers, wherever they are in our society, and as long as they denounce abuses that go against the public interest, must be protected? Is the situation I have just mentioned then perhaps within the scope of the new European directive? ODA seems to be covered by the Directive, since GDPR is explicitly mentioned. Do you confirm that? Finally, it is well known that when the date of transposition of a directive is exceeded, some of the provisions contained in it may have a direct effect; it is widely recognized that, for this directive specifically, all employees working for the State may enjoy the protection of that directive even in the absence of transposition. Do you recognize him, too? If so, what is the procedure to be followed in order to be able to benefit from this protection? Should we act directly by the courts or can the government propose something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u4	Mr President, Mr Boukili, Mr Verherstraeten and Mr De Smet, the whistleblowers' directive is also very close to my heart. First of all, I am giving an update on the transposition of the European directive. Then I will briefly address the additional questions, including the Data Protection Authority. Unfortunately, the timing of the transposition of the whistleblowers directive is difficult to guarantee. There are several reasons for this, namely the time needed to prepare this project, which is still very extensive, but above all the many actors in the public sector that are included in the text, for which we must work together with different competent ministers. The other areas of the public sector do not fall within my own competence, as you can understand. We must take account of the different statutes and their particularities. I am thinking, for example, of the integrated police services, which are also working on a text to be included in my preliminary draft law. In addition, there should be an autonomous body responsible for information, support measures and the issue of disclosure. The full achievement of the new tasks should be laid down and included in the preliminary draft law. This legislative process therefore requires a great deal of technical and political consultation before it can be presented to the Council of Ministers. I am also thinking of the consultation of the trade unions, the opinion of the Council of State and the further discussion in the parliamentary committee. All these steps have an impact on the planned agenda. Even if the transposition date is not an excuse, as is the case in other EU Member States, but I am still not able to report it, I intend to start discussions on the preliminary draft law in the coming weeks on a steady pace. Mr Verherstraeten, the preliminary draft law will go beyond what the European directive provides. The reports of whistleblowers covered by this preliminary draft report refer to violations of, inter alia, European and national rules of law and the non-compliance with the integrity that can be expected of an official. Anonymous notifications will also be taken into account. By means of the press, I also followed the resignation of Mrs Jaspar from the Data Protection Authority (ADP). Working towards the transposition of the European directive on the protection of whistleblowers in the public sector, I confirm my support for all whistleblowers in their essential approach to democratic balance in a rule of law. However, I do not know whether or not this case is linked to an alert launch. I can't judge him. I would violate the separation of powers if I were to rule in the place of the competent authorities in this case. Assuming that I know the concrete elements of this file - which is not the case - giving an opinion would go beyond the scope of my own jurisdiction. Mr Desmet, I will focus on your question concerning the Act of 15 September 2013 relating to the denunciation of a suspected breach of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of his staff. This applies to federal administrative authorities. ODA is therefore not within its scope, as it is not a federal administrative authority. According to the directive, it seems to me that the so-called collateral bodies must have their own reporting system. European directives normally have no direct legal effect. However, if the deadline for transposition is exceeded, the sufficiently clear and precise provisions of the Directive may be invoked before the courts. In the event of a dispute, a judge may in fact indirectly take account of the provisions of that directive when applying the normal rules of dismissal, for example. In this spirit and as part of the enforcement of the 2013 Act, federal mediators can, for example, expand their powers to receive a report of a breach of the integrity of a provider of a federal administrative authority because this worker's issue in a professional context such as a supplier is sufficiently clear and precise in the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u5	Madam Minister, thank you. However, you explain - not justify - the delays in transposing the directive because of the complexity of this area. The government took office several months before the directive came to an end, yet there is nothing concrete. In this regard, too, you do not give a date or a deadline when, however complex it may be - several areas are and yet bills are provided - I think that a few months might be enough to develop a fairly comprehensive text. Yet it's not for lack of trying. With my group, two years ago, we tabled a bill in the Committee on Justice, in particular on the issue of whistleblowers and the transposition of this directive. At the time, I had asked that, in the context of this bill, we should be able to hold hearings, hear experts, analyse the draft in a constructive state of mind, leading to the most comprehensive and relevant text possible. I have been told that this text is not relevant, that it is of no use that this proposal is being discussed because the government would come with the transposition of the directive. For two years, my bill has been in the fridge! We see that we are not moving forward on this issue and that is all the more serious because in the most important instances in our country, such as ODA, we have a threat to whistleblowers. Action must be taken! However, we do not have the national legal arsenal. Even if the directive can be applied at national level, we would have liked to have a specific arsenal in our country in order to be able to act on this issue. Unfortunately, we can't. We'll have to deal with justice. In any case, our country's situation with regard to whistleblowers is serious. We have not transposed the directive and I do not know how long we will have to wait for it to be done. It's a case that needs to be taken in hand very quickly. My bill is still available if you want it to serve as a front door to discuss this issue. It will be with great pleasure and I can even remove my name and that of my party and put the name of the Vivaldi if that is what is wrong. But it is absolutely necessary to move forward on this issue. Finally, you say that the directive can cover bodies such as ODA. I take note of this and hope that the other members of the majority have heard you well because in the Committee on Justice they will have to deal with the files of the whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I do not need to remind you of the coalition agreement, in which we agreed with the majority to provide for a whistle-blower arrangement in any case. The transposition of the Directive in a comprehensive way fits in with that. I take note of your reply that the failure to transpose that directive, and hence a national regulation in this area, could still inspire the courts to apply this European directive. However, I must point out to colleagues that the European directive is limited to infringements of Union law. In that sense, I welcome the enlargements you have listed. However, I invite you, along with my fellow Members, to speed up the implementation of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer, which leaves me in some perplexity. Firstly, because on the transposition of the directive, while all the obstacles you cite are indeed real, they were all predictable. That is why we are planning, I imagine, relatively long deadlines for transposition. So I'm still hungry on this point. More generally, I wonder. Everyone seems to agree that there is no concrete case to protect whistleblowers almost everywhere, in the administrative authorities, in the financial world, in the private sector, but not in the Data Protection Authority, a body that would not be a federal administrative authority and yet has extensive power over the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens. This still seems objectively difficult to admit! If ODA will be covered later, why not cover it now? Is it acceptable to dismiss an alert launcher now when it will be better protected later? I fear that if Mrs Dereppe is dismissed, Belgium will be brought before the Court of Justice and rightly. It's a real fear we can have. I therefore find this situation truly regrettable. We will therefore also table our own text on whistleblowers in order to remedy the shortcomings of this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u8	Mr President, Minister, at the end of last year you called on the 65,000 federal officials to participate as volunteers in the vaccination centres. They get a service exemption, which means they get to do it on duty without losing pay. You indicated that the many volunteers were sitting on their gums and could use some help to get the centers running at full speed for the third shot. My question is a little dated. Could you explain a little more about the conditions you laid down at that time in relation to the demarcation and the time period during which that service exemption is possible? Can the official at all withdraw from his own work for a certain period of time? In what case can or may it be decided? How will it be ensured that the official in question effectively performs his duty as a volunteer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u9	Mrs Goethals, the use of federal officials as volunteers in vaccination centres is not a new measure. It has been in place since the start of the centres. In spring 2021, in the circular No. 693 of 24 February provided that federal officials could be used as volunteers for vaccination. The measure was originally foreseen until 31 December 2021. It was extended by the Council of Ministers until 30 April 2022. The letter provides that staff wishing to work as a vaccination volunteer must make the necessary arrangements with their lead official during duty hours. Each leading official shall decide for himself whether his or her organisation the granting of a service exemption for certain staff members is possible and fits within the work organisation. It is therefore a question of the official to the supervisor, who must give his consent. The manager shall also determine the size of the service exemption, the number of days per week, per month and the exact duration of the period. In concrete terms, if I may give the example of the FOD BOSA, both the Director-General and the Head of Service must agree to the commitment and extent of that commitment. The staff member shall submit a copy of the voluntary agreement with the vaccination centre at the time of application. In addition, the staff member is also obliged to apply for admission to the head of service for each performance as a vaccination volunteer. There is therefore always a possibility, on behalf of the manager, of refusing a service exemption for service reasons. Finally, any staff member may also be asked to submit an overview of the performance days as a vaccination volunteer. I would add, Mrs Goethals, that the measure in this sense is intended to help the government in the face of an acute social need. As you said, we are now a little out of that period, but that is how we set the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u10	Madam Secretary, it is, of course, perfect for the government to step in where possible. I am also pleased to see that there is a proper check on the effectiveness of volunteering and that the management has to agree. Volunteers have to prove that they really went to the vaccination center, because it would be a bit awesome for people to take advantage of it. I am not saying that everyone will take advantage of this, but we must avoid it as much as possible. It is, of course, also about trust that the manager should give the official that is good, but it must not be the case that his own work remains because it is more fun to catch up in a vaccination centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u11	Madam Minister, today people with disabilities account for only 1.22% of the corps of employees in the federal government. This is well below the target of 3%, which was set in 2005. In its 2021 Federal Disability Action Plan, your colleague Lalieux states that the government should play an exemplary role in the employment of people with disabilities. I am in favour of that, too. We can't ask companies to do anything if we don't do it ourselves. In addition, it announced that from 2022 onwards, the handistreaming measures would be implemented in all government agreements of the federal administrations and that an action plan would be submitted for advice to the Guidance Committee on the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities (BCAPH). To bring the employment rate to 3 %, we have to take into account the full picture, as well as the selection procedure. Non-standard ways of recruiting people with disabilities should also be chosen. I have been advocating this for a long time and have already put forward proposals on this in committee. There is indeed a need for adapted selection procedures that survey for skills and knowledge that people with disabilities need for the job they are applying for, rather than a very broad screening by skills that are not needed. Today many people with disabilities are internships in a public service and do excellent work, but often they fail to get a fixed contract because they fail to pass the very general generic Selor tests. You said at the end of 2021 that you want to take action to raise the percentage. You want to put a proposal on the government table on this. Is that a proposal yet? Can you tell me more about its contents? What's the timeline? In July 2021, I proposed to investigate an additional selection channel for people with disabilities. You replied in July 2021 that the idea is worth investigating. How far is this investigation going? What further actions will you take on adapted recruitment procedures? What's the timeline for that? Finally, you also mentioned earlier that the FPS Policy and Support was preparing for an information session for higher education institutions that, for example, would accompany senior students or disabled alumni to work in the federal government. What is the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u12	During the discussion of the policy paper on diversity in the workplace, we have already discussed the employment of people with disabilities. You yourself indicated that you were somewhat disappointed with the current share of those people in the federal public office. Indeed, it seems to be becoming increasingly difficult to achieve the target of a 3% share. We are currently at 1.22% and all the evidence indicates that the share will continue to fall unless more is devoted to recruitment and support throughout the career. In order to reverse the downward trend, an integrated strategic plan of concrete actions should be drawn up. What concrete actions will you take because of the 3% share? To what extent was there already provided for, for example, adapted furniture? Has an evaluation been carried out in this area? What further actions will you take to adapt the tools of competence testing for career procedures, such as recruitment, promotions and internal mobility, to the needs of people with disabilities, with, of course, the same competences to be demonstrated by all? What roadmap has the Guidance Committee on the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities proposed? Can you explain the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u13	I would like to thank Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Goethals for a recurring and important subject at the same time. The Federal Disability Action Plan 2021-2024 should indeed ensure that we can take further steps to achieve the target of 3% of disabled people. I can assure you that it is not the intention to amend that objective. My services work closely with the services of Minister Lalieux, as well as with representatives of other Cabinets and federal organisations. We want to achieve the objective by adapting and completing the rules. In total, the Federal Action Plan includes 145 concrete measures. In line with my policy paper, we will start this year with the initiation of a design of KB that provides additional possibilities in terms of selection and recruitment. This is an important step forward, as it offers new opportunities and recruitment opportunities for interested disabled applicants. The aim is to start the alternative selection channels for people with disabilities as soon as possible. The powers of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the FOD BOSA will be extended. So far, the focus has been mainly on the selection process. Now all other relevant HR themes are added. New members will therefore also be added to the committee. In future, that committee can contribute to ensuring a well-founded including HR policy and reporting on the general trends of selection practices through its opinions. In cooperation with the Advisory Committee, we will examine how the selection tests themselves can be adapted in order to adapt the selection procedure to the candidate's intended position and specific needs, of course always with respect for the equal treatment of each candidate. It will also examine whether the Royal Decree of 6 October 2005 establishing the Advisory Committee on the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities can be updated. Since 2009, the BCAPH has been monitoring the application of the 3% target for the recruitment of persons with disabilities. Each year it collects new data from the federal organisations and produces an evaluation report on this basis. In the 2020 review report, the BCAPH recommended for the first time that each federal government should formulate an action plan adapted to its own context and reality to work towards the employment rate of 3%. So people are looking more at the organisations themselves. I launched a call to the lectures of the federal government to update and anchor the diversity and inclusion charter in 2022. This is in line with the BCAPH recommendation. I encourage them to draw up their own Action Plan on Diversity and Inclusion and to contribute to the 2022 Action Plan. The FOD BOSA and the federal network of diversity managers will support this by sharing inspiring practices. The FOD BOSA organised two information sessions online in September last year for about thirty interested higher education contacts that accompany students or graduates with disabilities to the labour market. My services have taken this opportunity to promote the range of varied and socially relevant federal functions, along with the existing possibilities for reasonable adjustments to federal selection procedures and priority in recruitment for disabled applicants. Selor will also be present this year at Reva's job fair for people with disabilities to promote employment in the government. It is always a delicate balance between the principle of equal opportunities for all candidates and the reasonable adjustments that may be needed for people with disabilities. I will also shortly be submitting proposals to the Council of Ministers on additional flexibility for the employment of people with disabilities and additional opportunities for reduced benefits due to illness. These levers will have an impact in the wider context. As I recently announced, I also stay above the federal government wall by, for example, encouraging collaboration with tailor-made companies. Finally, in 2021, we released a budget for federal government services to invest in customised furniture and equipment. Several public administrations have indeed used this to improve the home working environment of people with disabilities. Together with the Advisory Committee on the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities, this initiative will be further evaluated. Furthermore, the new KB on telework also makes it possible to invest permanently in equipment for the home working situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u14	Madam Secretary, I welcome the comprehensive answer. It is important that the bar is not lowered. The 3% quota is indeed a minimum to be achieved, which we have still not succeeded in achieving all these years. I would even say that we should aim for a larger share to compensate for what we have not done in recent years. Let's get at least 3 %. There are a lot of measures in the plan. That does not alter the fact that all ministers must see what they can do in their departments. I am pleased to hear that you will adapt the KB to provide an alternative method of selection and recruitment, as proposed by you last summer. You will also consider the role of the Guidance Committee. After all, there is a lot of expertise there. I think we should also listen to the people on the ground who know where the pain points are. I will certainly follow up on the dossier further, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I agree with Mrs Lanjri's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u16	In 2021, a study was launched on the limiting factors for women's careers. The results will be translated into policy from 2022 onwards. Projects that encourage and support women with management ambitions in that ambition can count on your continued support. You also want to find out what benefits the government can have in the 'Women in Digital' project. Can you tell us what inhibiting factors, according to the study, exist for women's careers? In what way do you intend to deal with it? What concrete measures will you take in 2022? Which projects that support women with management ambitions can count on your support? Finally, what benefits can the government have in the project Women in Digital?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u17	Thank you for this question about the initiatives we are taking to ensure that the number of women in leading positions can increase within the federal government. The results of the study on limiting factors in women's careers are still being processed. I look forward to it as much as you do. Unfortunately, I have not yet been able to report trends and I have not yet been able to envisage any action. In any case, this year we will continue to focus on gender equality and on it in the career of civil servants. In 2021, we took the initiative to compile exam juries for top-profile selections with up to two thirds of the same sex. We continue with that and aim for a 50/50 ratio. The composition of selection judges has an influence on the selection of candidates. In order to increase inflow, the employer branding campaigns will focus on encouraging women to apply for mandate positions. It is also useful to give that to women from the very beginning of the career, so that we end up effectively reaching the same number of candidates of each sex. I have already given my concrete support, for example, to projects such as Top Skills, a project of the FOD BOSA, which prepares women for a possible career as manager. In 2022, this trajectory will also allow men for the first time, from an inclusive approach. Boost her too, a project of the FPS Finance that you may know, is a project that I have a warm heart for. It is now up to the third edition and it has already allowed a lot of women within Finance to move to a position at level A3. You know that in 2019 Belgium signed the European Declaration Commitment on Women in Digital, with the first principle to follow a national and intersectoral strategy aimed at girls and women. Through this signature, we have underlined our interest in promoting the presence of women in STEM and ICT sectors at European level. Unfortunately, we know from many studies that women have more to do with the digital divide or with digital vulnerability than men. For example, we know that only 17.7% of ICT specialists are women. That means the other 82.3 % are men. That relationship is not really acceptable. In addition, women are less likely to have the appropriate skills. This under-representation of women in sectors already in serious deficit is a real economic problem. More women in these sectors are double profits: on the one hand, for those women, on the other hand, for the society where they are disadvantaged professions. Under the coordination of the FPS Economy, all levels of government and relevant actors have drawn up a five-year action plan in favour of women in the digital field. This brings us to our own plan Women in Digital, which is the commitment of our country, of course, while respecting the division of powers. After all, it is not federal, it is together with the Länder and with many sectors. There are a few strategic objectives that I would like to go over with you: firstly, to ensure that more women graduate in the digital sector, ICT and STEM directions; secondly, to promote that they also end up in the digital labour market or sector; thirdly, to ensure that they stay there, which is very important; fourthly, to create new image, role models and the like; and fifthly, to try to overcome the gender gap in specific target groups. Specifically within the federal government we are working on both internal and external employee branding. Women in top positions and in IT will be put in the spotlight as role models, to highlight both our own internal employees, as well as active and latent job seekers, young people who have to make a career choice and society as a whole, that within the federal government there are many career opportunities for women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am also looking forward to the results of the study, which will give rise to more questions. It will be very interesting to know and analyse the results. I do not think it is easy to get women in the same numbers as men at certain levels, especially in ICT. Occasionally, there may be such a thing as gender difference and women's interests are slightly different from men's. We certainly need to work on it because today everyone is being raised in an ICT world, when this used to be a real man's world. The same applies to top positions, which were previously occupied by men; women were not given the opportunity to do so, because they could become pregnant and so on. All these prejudices and factors should come out. I look forward to the results, we'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u19	Madam Minister, at the committee meeting of 19 October 2021, we questioned you about your ambitions for the reintegration of long-term sick, a pain point and also a complex issue that concerns us all. Unfortunately, the present reintegration system often does not produce the desired results. You are working on a reform of the measures by, among other things, providing better guidance for disability managers and an extension of the possibilities for a successful reintegration project. At the same committee meeting, you mentioned some concrete measures to promote reintegration, which your services are working on. I quote: 'It is a question of improving regulation, which should provide more opportunities for officials involved in training, guidance, coaching and mobility during and after a period of illness, and of reviewing the current systems, for example on part-time work. In terms of support, we will also take steps with the federal government to implement, by analogy with the private sector and the health insurance funds, the system of the back-to-work coordinator. In addition, the services provided by the Career Centre will be extended to offer career guidance and, where appropriate, review options." Finally, you also mentioned that at the moment 38 federal officials have been trained in disability management. Where do you stand with these measures? Which improvements do you want to make exactly? What is the financial impact and is it provided for? When will you submit a detailed proposal to Parliament? What objectives do you set in the budgetary margins in terms of the number of training courses undertaken during this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u20	Mrs Goethals, a draft KB on the integration of long-term ill into the IKW is currently being discussed. This draft KB includes a first package of measures, with which I particularly want to see greater flexibility and a stronger partnership between the long-term absentee and the other actors, such as employers, occupational doctors, Medex and so on. In concrete terms, the design provides, among other things, opportunities for reduced performance for medical reasons, an activating role of Medex and additional authorised activities during the illness period, which aim to return to work. These measures will also be discussed in the next few weeks at the trade-union consultations. The budgetary impact of these measures is limited. The staffing budgets should be sufficient. To define a second package of measures, a seminar will be organised in April with the network of P&D directors. This seminar will further outline the lines of re-integration policy for the coming years. In addition, a research project will be launched in the autumn, co-financed by Belspo and BOSA, which will examine how psychological well-being can be improved and re-integration can be rolled out more effectively. This project will run in two years and its budget is estimated at EUR 350 000. It is true that 38 federal officials have followed the training disability management at the RIZIV since its launch in 2016. These officials come from the following government organisations: Medex, SNCB, HR Rail, FOD BOSA, RJV, Fedris, FOD Economy, FOD WASO, Federal Police, FOD Public Health, FOD Justice and Defense. This training does not specifically and exclusively concern officials. Each year, a very heterogeneous group participates in the training. Participants are employed, for example, by sickness funds, external services, regional employment services, the care sector, the private sector and also by public authorities. Since the training includes different profiles, it is not possible to establish a number of places for officials in the coming years. Moreover, there is no structured impact for both civil servants and private sector employees on the function of certified return to workcoordinator or the certified disability management professional. However, we continue to encourage the various federal organisations to register as many officials as possible for this training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u22	Mrs Goethals, the concept of the right to deconnection and its application within the federal government has provoked some discussions. I am convinced that the right to deconnect is an important debate within an adult and human-oriented working relationship. Especially now, now that we are working almost full-time telework, perhaps that will change in a few days' time, and have more digital work equipment and use it. Telework will of course remain in a certain form. I also share this concern with private sector employers. The subject has already been raised in collective agreement No. 149 on coronate work for employees in the private sector. Moreover, since 2018, the private sector has already had a consultation on deconnection. My conviction was fed and strengthened by the study on the connection of the Social and Economic Council of Flanders, the SERV, and the joint report by Eurofound and the ILO, the International Labour Organization, but also by the recent study by the World Health Organisation on the effects of overtime. In order to better understand the concrete situation within the federal government, Medex's annual study on absenteeism is of course also an important measure. Based on the belief that prevention is better than cure, I have been striving to anchor the right of deconnection in the federal Staff Regulations, as a starting point of a longer journey, a pathway to see deconnection as a permanent working point for each organisation within the federal administrative public office, with attention to the existing regulations on working hours, employment and telework. To support this process, together with the changing royal decree, as you also mentioned, a circular was published in the Belgian Official Journal, built around a roadmap, to shape the consultation around the connection and working time, but always tailored to the organisation itself. Deconnection and, by extension, working time arrangements and holiday planning are, in my view, not matters that can be regulated uniformly for all federal government organisations together. As you know, there are more than 50 organisations, small and large, with 65,000 employees. We must leave them in their value. In addition to this letter, the FOD BOSA will also provide support by offering training to both managers and employees. You will hear in my reply that I think flexibility is very important. The publication of the letter is still very recent, 3 January 2022, but in the meantime quite a few federal organisations have already started working. Within the network of P&D, staff directors and HR managers, discussions were already held in January on the approach within the different services and examples were exchanged. Some organisations have been working on the subject for a long time and have already developed tools and surveys. Based on these experiences and interviews, they will reflect on topics such as what exceptional and unforeseen circumstances are in that context. You know that this is clearly mentioned in the circular. How will we reconcile flexibility with work organisation and services? Reflections that may result in adjustments to existing working time arrangements or new initiatives, such as e-mail traffic policy or meetings, are then possible. The adjustments of the legal sources will follow the normal path, applying the trade union status, as provided for in step 4 of the Roadmap. An initial evaluation is planned for the end of 2022. This will give the departments time to implement the new data and adapt their labour regulations. Of course, we ourselves closely monitor all developments and maintain close contact with all those involved so that they can assess what additional initiatives can be. The theme will remain high on the agenda in the coming years, not just within the federal government. I am somewhat sorry that, following communication, certain caricatures have sometimes been taken back. You didn't have to do that. This is a positive measure aimed at improving people's well-being and at creating the flexibility that we need today in a modern working relationship.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u23	Madam Secretary, I follow you in a part of the story, particularly as regards the right to deconnection. Back in the day, we didn't have laptops or anything like that and we were deconnected as soon as we left the workplace. Today we are living in another era, where teleworking gives a very great freedom, where control is no longer controlled, although checking is a great word, because people do not need to be controlled, and where people have the freedom to fit their daily schedule. I can imagine that people with young children decide not to work until 9:30 or 10:00, because they need time to get the kids busy and get the house in order. However, we can expect those people to work a little longer than someone who starts at 8 o'clock and can then stop at 16 o'clock or 17 o'clock. It is not always obvious, not even for executives, to estimate who divides his day well. That gives us a few issues on the work floor, which should be very well discussed with the executives and with the staff. For the decision that, for example, no one should be available at 20 o'clock in the evening or during the weekend, I have every respect. However, what is the end of the day? Do we talk in 16 hours, 17 hours or 18 hours? I myself come from the private sector, as a pharmacist. I worked till 19:00 and I thought it was only natural that everyone worked until 19:00. So in the question of how to fill it in, everything is relative. So we certainly need to follow it up and see if everyone can deal with it. For one person it will be harder than the other to handle it correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u24	Madam Minister, in the public office trade unions, the displeasure is that the negotiations on an increase in the purchasing power of civil servants are in ruins. Since 2002, they have not received a revaluation of the betting scales and in recent months have been waiting for budgetary negotiations in the light of the 13th month negotiations and the award of meal cheques. At the end of December, we read that the trade unions ACV and VSOA would file a strike announcement for federal government personnel. The socialist trade unions did not immediately join in. The debate will soon be resumed in the run-up to budgetary control. How has consultation with the trade unions been going in recent months? Do they still speak threatening language? Trade unions often threaten, but do not always engage in strikes. What prospects can you offer them for the time being?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u25	Minister, the public service is an essential issue in terms of the public service missions of the women and men who make up it. You rightly stated in your general policy note for 2022 that "social dialogue is a fundamental element of our social and societal model. Public services must make it a central part of their operation." The public service unions have been negotiating with your firm for several weeks in order to obtain better pay conditions, among other things. Their claims include the introduction of a thirteenth month, the upgrading of the scales and other applications. In this context, minister, could you please provide me with an update on these negotiations, their agenda and the various options that are on the table and your vision for them? What reactions have you given or are you going to give to the various proposals made by the trade unions, in particular on the revalorisation of the scales or a thirteenth month? Finally, as far as contract staff are concerned, what are your future intentions and/or initiatives, when your policy note referred in particular to a study on "systems for moving towards a statutory career"? In advance, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u26	Mrs Goethals, Mr Senesael, these questions are about the strike commitment of two trade unions. You know that in 2021 I requested all the requirements from the three representative trade unions. We have dissected them and analysed them to have a thorough overview of what they are asking and to see if there are similar requirements or differences. On this basis, my staff have been working with the trade unions to determine the scope of the sectoral agreement. There was a division of the files into a qualitative part and a financial part, but with the guarantee that the agreement would be concluded on the whole. In substance, several consultations were held on the various elements, but at a certain point it became clear that the government had to make a commitment in terms of budgetary means to conclude the agreement. During the budgetary conclave in October 2021, the government took the decision to take a decision on this during budgetary control 2022 when it has an overall view of the various negotiations on sectoral agreements within the federal government. So it is not just about federal administrative public office, but also about police and defence. This was communicated to the representative trade unions and led to a break in the negotiations. Now that the preparations for budgetary control have begun, we are restarting talks with the trade unions. You will agree with me that the commitment of two of the three representative trade unions is primarily intended to put pressure on the budgetary discussions and to make it clear that they also have monetary demands and not just want qualitative improvements within the statute. I had a meeting with the trade unions on Thursday 20 January to hear why they had submitted a strike announcement. They said at the time that they are still planning actions. As they themselves have said, these actions should have little impact on citizens, but, for example, a 24-hour strike is planned in prisons from 8 February. If I'm getting it right, it's going on right now. My proposals are ready and will be discussed within the framework of budgetary control. The shutters on which work has already been carried out last year, such as the increase in the end-of-year allowance, meal cheques and the revalorisation of the scales, are all included. I will fight for funds to be allocated to a sectoral agreement, as is the case with colleagues in the police and defence sectors. Mr Senesael, I would also like to answer your question on the initiatives I intend to take with regard to the statutory appointment. We note that many contract staff want to become statutory, preferably by retaining their position in the service in which they are engaged on the basis of a contract of employment. They participate in statutory selections, including those that are not directly related to their current contractual function. This undermines the effectiveness of selection procedures in general. In order to keep those contractual staff members who often perform the same tasks as their statutory direct colleagues motivated, they must be able to offer them a prospect of becoming statutory and thus offer them as many career opportunities as they do to statutory staff. We are looking at how to propose a prospect of becoming statutory for contractors who deliver good services without their having to take part in a new full selection procedure and, moreover, without violating the constitutional principle of equal access to the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u27	Madam Minister, I understand that this kind of discussion is not always easy and that the unions sometimes roll with muscle to put pressure on. In the sectoral agreement, I hear you want to introduce the meal cheques to the federal officials. I know you're a huge fan of that, but I don't share your opinion on this. For me, meal cheques were created to eat where you can't eat at the workplace. Today I will not say that everyone can eat at the workplace, but our officials can very often eat at very budget-friendly prices. I wonder if they're entitled to that. Not in my eyes. I know that you do not share my opinion and respect that. We will follow up on what the trade unions will agree to in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u28	Mr President, allow me first of all to thank the Minister for her reply, for the state of the negotiations under way and for the agenda and the various options on the table. I know that, in a negotiation, we do not immediately disclose all the priorities, but, of course, and the minister is well aware of this, the revalorisation of the scales is the backbone of the current discussion. In particular, I thank the Minister for once again supporting an important element of her policy note, namely, the evolution of our statutory careers. In any case, I would like to stress with great satisfaction and enthusiasm the Minister's proposal to keep the staff in place, to value it with a prospect of becoming statutory and a career development, with the simplification to continue their careers in the public service. I think this augurs well, and I thank the minister for the follow-up to this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic690x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55024868 by Mrs Van Peel Mrs Platteau's 55025026C was postponed to another meeting.
