ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u1	Minister, the pension reform project is entering a decisive phase. The basis is therefore 42 years of career in order to be admitted, once the age of 60 has been reached. This change in approach is even a paradigm shift that should improve the situation of a range of profiles. A few points remain outstanding at this stage. This is true of whether flexi-jobs and student jobs are taken into account in this calculation and in the amount collected. The former are experiencing a steady increase and not only among the already retired individuals. As for the latter, we know how often, in the face of the difficulty of finding a job, they appear as a lifebuoy at the beginning of their careers, the moment of life when they multiply. Of course, this also involves questioning the question of the levying of social contributions on them, a position defended last September by the CSC. Madam Minister, I therefore come to the question that I would like to ask you: what can you tell us about how the reform could take flexi-jobs and student work into account in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u2	Member, work, career and pension are inextricably linked. Today, our pension system takes too little account of developments in the labour market that are discriminating in more than one way. Inequalities in the labour market have increased, leading to a lower employment rate at the beginning and end of the career as you say. My reform proposal provides for a single period of 42 years for access to early retirement in order to limit differences and inequalities. In the context of pension reform, it is essential to develop measures to help increase the employment rate in order to ensure the social and financial sustainability of our pension system. More specifically, your question raises the issue of the early career and status of workers when entering the labour market. To answer this, there are several possibilities: for example, to correct inequalities in the calculation of career duration in the early career system, to strengthen the flexibility of the labour market, etc. In addition to the measures I presented to the government earlier this year, which are aimed, among other things, at increasing the employment rate, there is a need for in-depth consultation. To this end, the social partners will be asked to reflect on the development of the labour market and its impact on pensions so that they can submit proposals to the government. It goes without saying that if the National Pension Committee fails to agree on this, I reserve the right to table, in consultation with the relevant colleagues, a series of concrete proposals on the government table. We can no longer remain deaf to the justifiable demands of an entire generation. Young people must also count for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u3	I thank the minister for her response and will continue to be interested in how things are being implemented for this particular type of worker (as for others) while labour market reform has just materialized, bringing with it many positive contributions. I hope that fair and balanced pension reform will be the next important step forward for this government. In this context, try to look at these particular situations, such as flexi-jobs and student work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u4	For months now, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been calling for action to combat energy poverty. The government's spit-and-paste work on the VAT reduction on electricity was too little too late and threatens to end up in the trash after the Council of State's negative opinion. In addition, the OMCWs are beginning to declare a state of emergency. Due to the behaviour of many energy suppliers, the number of questions at the energy points has doubled once again. There, too, there is a danger of an unsustainable situation. How can you provide OCMW's support to deal with the influx of files and not leave people in the cold? What steps will you take to alert your colleagues in the government to the state of urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u5	Madam Minister, this 10 March, together with your colleague Tinne Van der Straeten, you invited some 20 anti-poverty organisations, consumer associations, trade unions to the round table on energy prices and short-term measures that will help households cope with the dramatic price rise that is taking place. The actors on the ground have, of course, expressed their request to include the most disadvantaged groups in the energy transition. We know that, unfortunately, it is families who have little or no savings who live in the least isolated houses. As far as the cost of energy is concerned, will I ask you what you are holding from the round table with Tinne Van der Straeten? Secondly, what about the reactivation of the "vulnerable public" task force created during the covid crisis, which had shown a great deal of interest in debates and exchanges and which had to become structural in order to provide rapid expertise on such issues? Is that so? Was it asked for this new major difficulty? Is it meeting on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u6	In March and April the final energy bill falls into the bus. A lot of people will be scared and need help. That problem is structural and we need to be prepared for an increase in energy poverty. To address these, there is an energy fund at the PPS Social Integration. Those resources can serve to clear priceless energy bills, but also to strengthen support from the OCMWs through additional staff. The fund itself can be used for preventive measures. Since long before the current energy crisis, the Platform against Energy Poverty is calling for this fund to be strengthened. This strengthening has only partly been achieved and, moreover, it was not sufficiently structural. There were indexations in 2019 and 2020 worth 12.5 million euros. In 2021, there was an exceptional budget of EUR 16 million. What total budget does the Energy Fund have today? How many resources are currently available? What are the plans of this government for further structural strengthening of the energy fund? Will the government adjust the outdated indexation mechanism of the Energy Fund in the course of 2022? What additional budget do you allocate to the Fund for 2022? Will there be a structural additional funding of this fund? I come to my second question, Madam Secretary. Since autumn 2021, more and more people have been struggling with their energy bills. With many OCMW's, the number of aid questions is increasing. Other OMCWs expect an influx in the months of March and April, when final bills fall on the bus. It is not just about the classic profiles, but also people with ordinary jobs, their own business, a variable contract, a poorly isolated home and so on, that are now in trouble. You have previously noted in De Standaard that you have the increasing number of requests monitored closely. There was also a consultation with the OCMW federations. What have you discussed and agreed with these OCMW federations? What about the increasing number of applications? Can you give the figures for November and December 2021 and January and February 2022? To what extent do these numbers differ with the same months a year earlier? Were you already arguing within the government for a moratorium on the collection of energy debts? A company like Engie is currently booking record profits, but can soon send bailiffs to defaulters.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u7	Finally, Madam Minister, I am obviously referring to the questions of my colleagues. My question was quite close to Mr Colebunds' second question. CPAS are increasingly confronted with specific requests from people who do not have the profile of the usual beneficiaries. They are people who have a regular job, sometimes a low salary, and who have a lot of difficulty making ends meet and paying energy bills. You have recently consulted the CPAS federations to find out the extent of the demand. Can you tell me more? Is this situation widespread throughout the country? What is the importance of these aid applications, particularly in the field of energy? How can we respond to those who did not meet the conditions for assistance in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u8	The government has taken a robust package of measures to reduce the effects of rising energy prices. As a reminder, a series of measures have been taken earlier: the energy check for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention, the energy check for all households benefiting from an individual meter for electricity, the reduction of VAT on electricity and the extension of the social tariff to the beneficiaries of the increased intervention. In addition, on Monday, we took further strong measures: a cheque of €200 for consumers of domestic fuel oil, a reduction of VAT to 6% on gas, an extension of the extended social tariff, a reduction of 17.5 cents per litre of fuel at the pump. We have also, and I welcome it, like what has been done for the gas and electricity fund, refinanced the oil fund, which had never been done since it was established in 2009. This is a refinancing of EUR 17 million, which will significantly increase the flat-rate allocation per litre and increase the intervention ceiling to 2,500 litres instead of the previous 1 500. This is totally exceptional, and it was necessary for many households, especially in Wallonia, since gas is less widespread there. I'm proud of that. The various measures we have taken benefit the entire population. I certainly do not forget the Gas and Electricity Fund either. What Mr Colebunders called "a partial reinforcement" was the first refinancing of this fund since 2002. That EUR 16 million almost doubles the resources of Article 6 of this fund. Thanks to this substantial investment, the OCMWs can meet the applications today. In concrete terms, even if I do not yet have the final figures, I can tell you that the entire envelope of this fund should amount to 82 million euros, of which 49 million for Article 4 and 33 million for Article 6 – that is to say to pay the invoices. Some CPAS have told me that they are concerned about the increase in applications, while regularizations have not yet arrived. I asked the Social Integration PPS to objectify this feeling in order to quantify the increase in claims and amounts to be reimbursed as best as possible. With the first round of returns, I have asked for an additional envelope for the gas and electricity fund under budgetary control. I cannot tell you the amount, because I am still waiting to have a clear picture of the situation of CPAS in order to establish the best budget to meet the demand. We organise a monitoring with the SPP Social Integration, which the CPAS must fill, which they have not yet done. With this data, I will be able to request, if necessary, a budgetary adjustment, either now or in June, based on the data. Mrs Leroy, the round table with Tinne Van der Straeten reminded us that structural answers were needed. I joined her in this will. We must sustain certain measures, such as the enlargement of the social tariff. However, we did not wait for this meeting to work on improving the gas and electricity fund. As Mr Colebunders points out, this fund allows for the development of a preventive policy. It is imperative that in future it has sufficient means to densify itself. The Fund's indexing mechanism is one of the objectives of this fund's redesign, and I think that with the Minister of Energy we are going to make sure that this fund is indexed until 2024. Together with the Minister of Energy, we agreed to review these actors on the ground in order to assess with them the measures taken by the government and to provide concrete responses to the entire population in a more structural way. The "vulnerable public" task force was not intended to become structural. However, this does not mean that there is no longer any dialogue or listening with civil society, on the contrary. The round table is an example of this, but meetings are also increasing in the context of the development of the plan to combat poverty and inequality. Consultation with the privileged partners is the basis of my policy and I do not intend to depart from it. As you can see, we are not content with a small-week policy. We are also committed to improving the situation of disadvantaged audiences on a sustainable basis. Beneficiaries who heat themselves with oil, thanks to the measures of the oil fund and the €200 cheque, will have a total reduction of between 300 and 600 euros on their bill, which is not nothing. I would add that this is obviously retroactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your comprehensive answer. I wanted to ask this question earlier, particularly last month, at the committee on 16 February. We are now a month away and unfortunately the subject remains burningly topical. Moreover, the situation has become even worse. You say that the measure will benefit the population, but I fear that this government is currently underestimating the financial pressure on large groups in our society. It has long since been the poorest 10% or 20% of citizens, the group has become much larger. The middle class is hardest hit because it cannot benefit from any energy subsidy. Moreover, the pressure on the OCMWs is enormous, not only in the context of the energy crisis, but also now for the reception of the war refugees from Ukraine. OMCWs are slowly declaring a state of emergency. Our fear is that many people will remain in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u10	As far as I'm concerned, minister, thank you for your answers. Above all, thank you for showing so much willingness to try to find solutions within a Vivaldi coalition that we sometimes know a little complex in terms of speed of action in this kind of moment when we know that it is very complicated because everyone has different paths. And now, we have managed to bring things, and I know that you and your colleagues have carried some essential elements. I would just like to go back to the fact that, from the monitoring as you are presenting them, structural answers are indeed possible, and it is extremely important for us that we are talking about the enlargement of the social tariff, the gas and electricity fund, the prevention which contributes to automation, trying to eradicate the problem of "non-take off". How many people do they not even know about the concept of a social tariff, when they could benefit from it? The same applies to the indexing of the fund, of course, until 2024, I think it is essential. You are referring to the idea of seeing the actors again, and that also seems to me to be very important. Moreover – I am trying to find the information but I can't find it – as far as the "vulnerable public" task force is concerned, I really have the feeling that we concluded and entered the new government by saying: "It is a tool that worked well at the beginning of the crisis, it is a tool that brings together people that we were able to identify quickly, which constitute this task force that could be sustained". I don't know if my fantasy was to want to see this task force perpetrated or if I read it, but I'll come back to you about it. In any case, when you say "seeing the actors", perhaps reactivate a task force such as this one could make a lot of sense for this kind of current difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u11	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I would really like to point out the gravity of the situation. The problem of poverty in Belgium has not been reduced for years, it has been stable for 30 years. That's not good news. One does not need to have studied to know that it will increase spectacularly. We don't know what's coming at us. The mayor of Genk, who is not our party, even called for help during the city council. Genk is one of the poorest city center cities in Flanders. To give you an idea: there are now 37 % more applications for a living wage. He said: "We have not yet dealt with the corona crisis and we are already facing an energy crisis. I don't know what impact that will have on my people. The energy crisis is in full swing, and now I have a lot of refugees to deal with. I don't know how my OCMW's gonna make it. He is also the chairman of the VVSG and says he knows that every municipality and every city screams for social workers. "Money's fun," he says, "but I need social workers!" There are almost no social workers on the market, there are even fights for them. How shall we solve that, Madam Secretary? Money is important, but it is not the only solution. Besides, that money is far too little. The federal energy fund has a very broad mandate, and on paper it reaches into every municipality in our country. So we actually have the ideal weapon against the energy invoicing crisis, but then we have to say it in full and then it needs to be strengthened. Prior to the crisis, 30 million euros were requested every year, according to the Platform's experts against Energy Poverty, so this is ultimately a bummer. Considering what's coming to us, it's gonna have to be much higher than that. So you face a huge challenge. It's not five to twelve, it's five to twelve, Madam Secretary. Whatever's coming at us now, we've never seen before.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u12	I use the timer, so it's a little rough, and I'll give you more time. I'm just making a little remark when the time is really over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u13	I thank the minister for her answers. I think you are right to distinguish between short-term challenges, which require urgent responses, medium- and long-term challenges, and the sustainability of the measures that are being taken. I believe that all the measures you have mentioned are in the right direction, in that they reduce the burden on the families most affected by energy prices and the most vulnerable groups. Secondly, you are also right about the CPAS federations and the SPP Social Integration to objectify the demands and figures. To do this, you need this monitoring. I repeat this often, but "meten is weten", and you need this data for the measures to be taken and any budgetary adjustments to be made. The third point is that you are listening to the actors on the ground and to the people concerned. This is what you need to do and what you do to ensure that the measures best fit the realities of families. So with my group, I can only invite you to continue your efforts to adjust the budget and extend the measures. You know in any case that you have the support of our group within Vivaldi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u14	Madam President, the gas and electricity fund welcomes everyone. Already today, 75% of consumers who use the gas and electricity fund are not social recipients. It is the whole population that has difficulties, regardless of their status, whether self-employed or wage earners. We forget it too often, and I think we need to pass on this correct information. That is why I am asking for refinancing, because it will affect everyone, the whole population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u15	You do well to remind him because, indeed, I think many people ignore him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u16	Mr. Loones' next question (55025472C) was deferred, and Ms. Lanjri's questions (5502568C and 55025660C), who was suffering today, were transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u17	Since Ms. Matz was absent, her question became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u18	Madam Minister, I wanted to ask you a question about the sinister situation in Belgium – no one can forget it – on 6 August 2021. To deal with the most urgent situation, you have created, through a royal decree, a flood fund for target audiences and CPAS located in the affected communes. CPAS were therefore granted a first 50% of an amount defined per municipality. Of this envelope, 10 per cent could be allocated to staff costs. As a result, CPAS have undertaken various recruitments in order to respond effectively to the plight of beneficiaries in their territory. And their existing staff spent a lot of time dealing with the emergency. On 18 January 2022, a new royal decree was issued concerning the method of calculating subsidies. His goal was to re-count after analysis. Some CPAS find that only 25% of the departure amounts are allocated to them. Although they are predictable, they did not expect this new calculation – done by your services – to be so different from what was notified to them. You will agree that these changes along the way significantly complicate their financial management. For example, since staff commitments were made for 2022 on the basis of the amount initially announced, CPAS are not available. They would therefore like to receive a sufficient amount to cover the costs incurred as a result of the first royal decree, which initially allowed them to meet staff costs. My questions are as follows: Have you received any alerts from CPAS who discover this new calculation? Do you intend to review the calculation for a third time in the light of the realities exposed by the trapped CPAS? Finally, should staff costs be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u19	Madam President, as you know, the basic royal decree was drawn up as a matter of urgency in order to respond as quickly as possible to the needs of those affected by these terrible floods. The first instalment was paid on the basis of the number of affected households reported by provincial governors. For the distribution of the second tranche, the figures are those of the Regions, which confirmed or adjusted those initially transmitted by the Governors. It was thus found that the number of victims initially reported could be strong – if not very strong – away from the number of permanently confirmed victims. We're not going to say there was a lie about numbers, but about that. Already, the government – and therefore all the partners of the majority – decided to amend the basic royal decree and to provide for a third tranche in order to align the means where they were most needed. I haven't been questioned by the situation you're talking about. So I didn't get any alerts from any CPAS. Staff costs will be calculated in proportion to the final allocation, i.e. 10 per cent of the final allocation. As far as Mrs Matz's question is concerned, I am sorry, but I have not heard of any rigidity on the part of the PPS in the processing of applications. On the contrary, we wanted to be as flexible and as broad as possible in view of the disenchantment in which people were found and the circumstances in which the social survey was to be carried out. An explanatory circular was sent to the CPAS at the time of the publication of the basic royal order. I do not yet have an official view of the state of consumption but, according to the echoes, the heavily affected municipalities are looking forward to the payment of the third and final tranche, since they have already eliminated a lot. As I often say, it is not the financial inspectorate's interpretation that counts, but the correct interpretation of the directive. And as I said, some CPAS have already paid in advance. If one day the insurances pay back, they will pay back washing machines, dishwashers, appliances, and even cars if some need a car to go to work. There is therefore a lot of flexibility possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u20	Thank you, Minister. I am not president of CPAS, but I have nevertheless lent myself to the game of trying to read the various decrees, without wanting to prejudge the time needed to read these decrees and understand them. I have indeed found that there is a certain complexity in being able to anticipate possible expenditure, in any case as regards staff costs. I believe that there is a distinction between budgets that would have been allocated to beneficiaries, and it can therefore be seen that these needs have not been requested and that, therefore, it is not very complicated to ask for this money to be recovered. Where, as a pre-emptive measure, staff costs have been incurred, it is obviously complicated because requests have been anticipated. I think that CPAS wanted to be extremely operational very quickly and therefore said that it was important to accompany them well. So today we are faced with a complicated situation. I also understand that the calculations were made by the governors and then by the regions. On the other hand, I do not know where these figures come from, I do not know whether the municipalities sent them themselves. All this is therefore extremely complicated because between the provinces and the Regions, so some CPAS actually find themselves in a very complicated situation. I conclude with the fact that you have not been informed of any specific requests for CPAS. I have received them, and I will therefore ask them to send them to you, because I have received them as a copy of information for the PPS. So I'm going to say that you're not aware of this because I actually had wind of information, and that's surprising. So we can imagine that situations are sometimes very complicated in administrative mazes, but if you say you don't know, I'll pass on this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u21	Madam Minister, DG HAN is responsible for evaluating the dossiers of disabled people. As complaints about the provision of services were fairly regular, the EVAL project was launched in 2020. An important element in this was the training provided for assistants in the evaluation, who assist doctors in the handling of the dossiers. The aim is to eliminate long waiting times and to provide adequate and effective services to those concerned. In the meantime, how many assistants in the evaluation have been trained and recruited at DG HAN? What is the number of files to be dealt with at DG HAN, i.e. the number of files that have not yet been completed? Has there been an improvement in the delay compared to the period for the recruitment of these assistants in the evaluation? Do you envisage additional resources for DG HAN in the short or medium term in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u22	Mrs Samyn, DG HAN has hired 19 evaluation assistants. These assistants receive training consisting of a theoretical and a practical part. The theoretical part is completed. Practice training is still ongoing, after a slight delay due to the corona crisis. Today, DG HAN has 56.094 files open. This concerns 17,669 first applications, 13,436 applications for revision and 24,989 automatic revisions. As has already been said, the training of assistants has not yet been fully completed. We cannot therefore yet say what their arrival will mean for the delay in the files. As you know, we are investing 4.8 million in 2022 in the Excellent programme and another 5 million in 2023 and 2024 each time. The aim of this programme is to improve the services and internal functioning of DG HAN. A first recruitment round has already started for the multidisciplinary evaluation. Between now and 2025, more evaluators will be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u23	Madam Minister, in a society like ours, we must pay special attention to the weak, especially to people with disabilities. I regret to note, however, that the project has not yet been fully developed for the sake of covid. I can understand that, but it's often used as an excuse. In this case there is really urgent work to be done. It can't be that a government is communicating wrongly or not at all. You mentioned the files to be dealt with. Let's face it, there's way too many of them. That's a stain on DG HAN and a stain on the blazing of our welfare state. Everyone, and especially those with disabilities, have the right to see their files evaluated within a reasonable time. So I hope that something can be done about the project that is still under way. After all, there is a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u24	Despite all good intentions, DG HAN has not yet succeeded in publishing its 2020 annual report. However, in the context of the fight against poverty, it is very important to have correct and recent figures. I have a number of questions about that. How many people received an IVT-IT in 2020 and 2021? How many new applications were there and how many questions for revisions were there? How many files have not yet been decided on? What was the average decision time of the files?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u25	Ms Samyn, the annual report 2020 has been on the website handicap.belgium.be since 13 October 2021. This report can also be found on social security.belgium.be. For the figures you ask, I suggest that you put a written question. I'll answer it as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u26	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In general, it is sad that, as far as we are concerned, everything related to people with disabilities is not getting enough attention. I refer to my previous question concerning the Disability Action Plan, which was drawn up by you. We had also asked for a proper meeting here in the Chamber. But it's still deafeningly silent. You have come up with proposals and points of interest, but we have not yet seen any concrete results of this. So, of course, I will come back to the questions about the figures and I will not fail to put a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u27	The Federal Disability Action Plan 2021-2024 includes the so-called abolition of the price of love. That's very positive. It is not up to the government to pursue a policy that affects or does not affect people according to the cohabitation form for which they have chosen. The price of love for integration has long been a thorn in the eye. So it's a good thing. However, this is rather an exception to a situation which is often reversed. People who are single, and especially those who are childless, are usually burdened more and are given less facilities than others. The introduction of a systematic single reflex, which for the sake of clarity is not limited to single parents but also focuses on childless singles, could at least nip this injustice in the bud for a new policy in the future. Furthermore, the Disability Action Plan contains a chapter on non-discrimination and equal opportunities. The plan focuses on a number of justified points and even advocates a specific approach to girls or women with disabilities, but the status of single people is overlooked, despite the fact that it is a very strong growing group, not least in Brussels. There, the number of households with single people is moving towards 50%. It is a precursor of a general trend. According to the Court of Auditors, more than half of the number of households in Belgium will soon be made up of single persons. It therefore seems appropriate to make this type of action plan, and in the event of enlargement, the whole policy, single-proof as well. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Madam Secretary. Will you systematically include a reflex throughout the action plan to ensure that new measures are not disproportionate to the detriment of single people without children or single parents? Will an inventory be made of existing measures for people with disabilities that are disproportionately detrimental to single people without children or single parents? Will you, as a good example, build in a single reflex for both childless and single parents for action within your policy area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the various actions of the federal plan are intended to improve the situation of all people with disabilities. The impact of the measures can be monitored according to different target groups. I think it is very important to pay the necessary attention to single people. I myself believe that each right should also be granted individually. I want to take measures that will benefit everyone. The price of love was discriminatory for people with disabilities living together. So I am very pleased that it has been abolished. But at the same time, I have also done something about the price of labour. Any person with disabilities can now earn more without losing a part of their IT. So this certainly benefits single people, because it is about individual income. I have also made sure that the IVT benefits are raised to the poverty line. That too has been acquired individually. As far as the other measures of the federal action plan are concerned, I do not see any measure that would disproportionately harm single people with or without children. But I will certainly continue to pay sufficient attention to it. I will also call on my colleagues to take this group into account. I am pleased that you support me in the policy I want to pursue for the individualisation of rights. I hope to be able to count on the support of the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Of course, efforts have already been made. That's very clear. However, we must recognise that the government's policy framework is still largely in line with traditional families. He's not so much concerned with discrimination. We really need to see what the problem is with the scale disadvantages that single people are experiencing, especially during the current energy crisis. The tax burden on single people is also quite high. They are taxed at 51% on their income. I think it is a very good initiative to seek a social and fiscal framework in which these disadvantages can be overcome. I am also satisfied with your answers. After all, the regulation is often not adapted to the single reflex, which we absolutely must make. You will certainly be able to count on my cooperation for that framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u30	Madam Minister, by June, a number of offices – including yours – have to transpose the European directive on the accessibility of services and goods for people with disabilities, the number of which, it should be recalled, is increasing considerably. In the face of the digitization of services, the disarray of people with physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities is great, and high expectations are the expectations of associations. They hope that Belgium will be ambitious in its transposition. At the moment, we have little information on the progress of the work. The Directive lays down accessibility requirements for key products and services. Therefore, Minister, what are you planning to do about accessibility for consumer banking, electronic communications services, emergency number calls, access to audiovisual media services, e-books and e-commerce? I imagine that your answer will not be in the details stricto sensu, but we wanted to know a little more about these different accessibility elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u31	Madam President, I think I'm going to disappoint you. As Minister for Persons with Disabilities, I am very close to the work. My administration supports the competent authorities in their transposition, and this is the subject of measures within the framework of the Federal Handicap Action Plan. As regards transposition at the federal level, the various draft laws are being finalized through my colleagues responsible for each sector concerned. I am not drafting anything in this directive at all. In particular, I insisted that bills and draft legislation be systematically submitted for advice to the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. For the technical details, I will refer you to the relevant ministers, since they work from administration to administration, and I hope that they will all respect my request, which is to move their preliminary draft to the level of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, but I have no more power to transpose this proposal for a directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u32	Thank you, Madam Minister. I understand well, and the discussion we had at the time you presented the plan was about how to make sure that the commitments made are moving forward, that everyone is working in the same direction and that we are not getting lost. It is well known that one priority exceeds another systematically, and I will of course ask the minister concerned in each dedicated jurisdiction, but it may be worth the trouble that this commission will, at some point, be used to take stock of this kind of thing. At the time of the presentation of the plan, we also mentioned the possibility of asking ourselves about annual or biannual periods, about our progress in this area, and about the possibility of obtaining a compilation of the progress of the various ministers, in order to be sure that no one loses sight of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u33	Madam Secretary, you put an end to the checks carried out by postmen with IGO beneficiaries. You know my position on this, but that aside. Apparently, there is also an agreement within the government on a new procedure on residence conditions. In their own words, they would be "less radical, less controlling and with more freedom of movement." You know, and I hope that this will continue to be the case, that in order to have the right to an IGO, the rightholder must still have a main place of residence and therefore have an address in Belgium and must actually and without interruption stay there. I have asked you a few times about this in the past, but I will ask you a few questions in the context of the new developments. Is it true that the checks on the IGO's residence conditions will be suspended until 14 April 2022? You have already replied 'yes'. To date, therefore, there have been no controls. I wonder if you will also answer 'yes' to the following questions. Secondly, does the new control procedure, without postmen, start from 15 April 2022? How will it be checked whether the IGA beneficiaries are actually and without interruption in Belgium? Finally, there is no longer any obligation to report such information as is at least the intention for short stays abroad of five days or for temporary stays at another place of residence in Belgium. In our view, this is a fairly considerable relaxation, but in any case, I assume that these facilitations will also be monitored in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u34	Madam Minister, I would like to put it slightly differently from the previous questioner, which will not surprise you. Following years of witch hunt for vulnerable senior citizens, introduced by the previous government without any justification on the basis of the number of cases of fraud afterward, it was found that an elephant was fired on a mosquito, and as announced, this government finally reached an agreement on the new IGO control procedure. It's a more human approach, where the postman is no longer the bogeyman of whom seniors should be afraid. The seniors can go out again, for example to the market. In the beginning I met people who were afraid to leave the door, for fear of missing the postman. They can even take the seniors' association on a multi-day trip without the whole fuss that came along. Another personal story that has always stayed with me is that of that 80-player who didn't get to the door in time with his walking rack, so he missed the postman and had to go through a lot of red tape again in order to keep that low welfare allowance. The scheme would enter into force on 15 April, at the time of the suspension due to corona. It has been very bad for a lot of people and it has been explained very succinctly in the press, which is why I wonder if you could explain a little more precisely how the procedure will work and, in particular, how the exceptions for people with disabilities, people in a residential care centre and people staying in a hospital will work. After all, I had a lot of questions about this at the time and people effectively lost their benefits. It is important that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u35	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, just a month ago, on February 16, a series of questions were already on our committee's agenda regarding the monitoring of the residency condition of GRAPA beneficiaries. At the time, you announced to us that an agreement would be reached in the Council of Ministers for the period of Carnival leave, which was respected. I note with satisfaction the end of the involvement of the factors in the control that is at issue and therefore the end of the Bacquelaine-De Backer system. Indeed, it is a system that we have fought from the outset. In any event, you have taken a series of steps to make control more respectful and humane, very quickly, and without waiting for the agreement of the Council of Ministers. An important measure is the end of control of people aged 80 and over. Field associations contact you just as they contact us, and they're right. They are asking for further progress. On 16 February, I asked you about the 29 days of stay abroad by comparing with the systems in other European countries. The question now is how to put an ideal system in place. Full control is required for reasons of fairness. But there is also a need for dignified, humane control that avoids unjustified sanctions. The two previous procedures had some mistakes in this regard. With regard to the length of stay abroad, exceptions are made at the request of the beneficiary. However, there is still a lack of clarity as to the reasons that are taken into account by the SPF in justifying this derogation from the 29-day limit. Therefore, will clear instructions be given to the administration as to the reasons that can be taken into account? With regard to unjustified sanctions, in order to try to reduce or remove them, will GRAPA be immediately suspended if the person does not react within 29 days? What are the possibilities of holding a pre-hearing hearing before a sanction is applied? What is the minimum time that older persons will be allowed after the second letter is sent, to carry out their work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u36	Madam Minister, as you promised us before the crocus holiday, you recently proposed your reform of the IGO control procedure. This partial reform is positive on many points, such as the groups which are now exempt from control or the removal of the statutory control rate of 80%. However, certain pain points remain. I am thinking of the missed opportunity to raise the 29 days' right to foreign residence to 90 days as requested. Furthermore, there is still a lack of an appeal procedure, while the figures for previous years show that 60% and more of the sanctions were unjustified. Why do you not provide for an appeal procedure for those who, after a suspension, still want to be heard by the Federal Pension Service? Will you strictly monitor the percentage of unfounded sanctions? What is your opinion on the discrimination between these IGO beneficiaries who are only allowed to stay abroad for 29 days and their retired peers? Will you ask the Federal Institute of Human Rights to review the new regime against the fundamental rights of its citizens? Are you planning an evaluation of the scheme, based on the experience on the ground, after a maximum of one year? When will this new regulation start? Is that April 15th? When will you publish the Royal Decree on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to confirm here that we have reached agreement within the government on a new control procedure for the IGO's residence conditions. This new procedure will be more balanced with the aim of controls. In particular, the reform removes any role of control from factors and again offers freedom of movement to the right-holders. The reform was unanimously approved by the social partners in the Pension Management Committee. The fact that control becomes more proportional means that during the previous legislature, controls were an objective in themselves. I have decided to abandon this target of controlling at least 80% of GRAPA beneficiaries every year. Older people also regain their freedom of movement. Short stays abroad and temporary stays elsewhere in Belgium must no longer be declared. Thus, it's over to be afraid for vulnerable elderly people. In addition, I have excluded from control the most fragile and the least mobile. These are persons over 80 years of age, persons enrolled in a rest or nursing home or in a psychiatric care institution in Belgium, persons registered at the address of an OCMW and persons with disabilities. For example, 40% of the 107 000 beneficiaries are exempt from any control. Thus, control will indeed be more proportional, less intrusive in the privacy of the beneficiaries, and will again give them more freedom to enjoy their old days. The previous monitoring procedure had little respect for our former workers. About half of GRAPA's beneficiaries have worked and contributed for more than 20 years. They also deserve a peaceful retreat, without unnecessary stress. Mr van der Donkt, the control procedure was indeed suspended in 2020 because of the pandemic. It was decided not to restart the contested verification pending the new procedure. This would only confuse the beneficiaries and unduly burden the administration during the preparation of the new procedure. The new monitoring procedure will therefore begin on 15 April, the date of publication in the Belgian Monitor. This will be done by means of a registered letter that the recipient can sign himself or that will be received by a third party. In the first case, the presence on Belgian territory is confirmed by the notice of receipt. In the second case, the beneficiary will have 29 days to present himself to the municipality in possession of his identity card, where the presence on Belgian territory will be confirmed by the competent official who completes and signs the certificate of residence. The recipient then sends this certificate to the Federal Pension Service within 28 days of receipt of the recommendation. If the registered consignment has not been received, a second residence certificate shall be sent to the IGO beneficiary by ordinary letter. The IGO beneficiary will then be given the time to go to his or her municipal administration and send the completed residence permit to the FPD within 29 days of receipt of the registered shipment. The Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service will review this new procedure after one year. All these changes once again make the control procedure more proportionate. We are largely responding to the main criticisms of the previous procedure. Adding to this the substantial increases in GRAPA amounts between 2021 and 2024 (plus 25% including expected indices and adaptations to well-being) will significantly improve the lives of beneficiaries. An adjustment of the residence conditions themselves was not part of the government agreement. The government agreement calls for an evaluation and assurance of the proportionality of the control of residence conditions. That's what I've come up with. In fact, I've managed to go even further. With the extension of the regime for short stays abroad of five days, IGO beneficiaries can de facto go abroad longer and more often than today. In addition, a stay abroad of more than 29 days may still be authorised under exceptional circumstances and after approval by the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service. That is and remains the prerogatives of the management committee and falls outside my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u38	Madam President, Minister, as you know from our previous questions, we are a little sceptical about this new arrangement. I have heard and noted that there will be an evaluation of the new scheme within the year. So you can be sure that we will be on our qui-vive in the coming year and ask the necessary questions. Our group is and remains very sceptical about this new arrangement. The IGA scheme still covers rights and obligations and a number of conditions are still attached to it. Eventually, society gives these people a favor. It's a legitimate favor, that's not what this is about. However, duties are also attached to this. If there is no control or inadequate control, we fear that this could lead to abuses. Let us hope not, but it is better to have a stick behind the door than a soft plume, as you are currently holding back in this new arrangement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u39	Madam Minister, I am very relieved that after the lockdown, those vulnerable seniors will no longer be forced into house arrest, because that is what the old procedure came down to. I hear it could give rise to abuse. Mr van der Donkt, the various hearings here have shown that there are less than 1% genuine abuses. Those figures have never shown that, even with the very strict procedures under the previous government. There have been many steps forward for those people. There were also legislative proposals for this in Parliament. I have also been increasingly in favour of aligning the people with an IGO for their stay abroad with the other welfare benefits. So I would have liked to have seen those 90 days. On the other hand, I would have liked them to be heard again before their benefit is suspended. However, the steps that are being taken today are already quite significant. I look forward to the evaluation within a year. Maybe there will be further and further insight, which will allow us to respect these people's rights even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u40	Minister, unlike Mr. Van der Donckt, I was rather sceptical, very sceptical, extremely sceptical about the previous procedure. I think this is a step forward for the beneficiaries. I would therefore like to say that, as far as my group and I are concerned, we welcome this. Thank you for your answers. I believe that this is an important step forward that responds to the main criticisms of the system, as it has been put in place. As Mrs Vanrobaeys said, this progress made does not prevent the preparation of the next one. There are requests. I believe that this issue of European harmonisation of the length of stay is a point of attention which we will all continue to work on the basis of the evaluation. We will see what is happening, but I see this as a very positive step.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u41	Madam Minister, you have been able to partially reform the IGO control procedure, as you promised. The many actions from the bottom up have really rewarded. For about four out of ten entitled people, the stress falls completely away, the others end up in a system with a little more breathing space. However, I also have reservations, because we continue to monitor people to check. They are no longer in the IGO lockdown of the previous government, but still. I am still surprised that the liberals, the Catholics and the N-VA dared to lock up old people in their homes a few years ago as if they were criminals. What is particularly on my mind today is the discrimination against IGA beneficiaries, who have to limit travel to 29 days, against ordinary pensioners, who can travel indefinitely. I therefore believe that raising this figure to 90 days is a necessary step in this dossier. I am, of course, left with a bitter feeling that this is a sign of a particular population. That's a bridge too far for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the discussion on GRAPA. Minister, this committee is available for further work on this subject. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u43	Madam Minister, not so long ago, on 16 February, I questioned you about the issue of the pension split. You gave me an answer to a number of questions. You have not actually answered a number of questions. That's why I'm taking up part of the question. Recently, the new matrimonial property law was approved and published. Article 2.13.19 of the Act in question provides that the acquired pension rights are own. Today there is a scheme for obtaining a pension as from the divorced spouse, as well as a scheme for obtaining a pension as a de facto divorced marriage partner. For this, please refer to the website of the Federal Pension Service. Do you think that changes to the current matrimonial property law are necessary to implement the government's pension split plans? If so, which one? I did not receive an answer to this question in February. What changes do you consider desirable to the current pension game rules in case of actual divorce and divorce? What timing do you have in mind to get the very complicated file of the pension split?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u44	Mr Van der Donkt, I draw two conclusions from last Monday's Gender and Pension Day. Firstly, the gender pension gap will not disappear by itself because more women than men continue to work part-time, often to devote themselves to caring tasks. Secondly, the family dimension of the current pension system has not evolved sufficiently and is therefore unable to provide a good response to this problem. It is therefore clear that we need to reform the family dimension within pensions. The pension split is one of the elements in that story, and I stress that it is one of the elements. The government agreement states that the pension split will be examined. I am very much in favour of the pension split because it can contribute to greater pension equality and solidarity at the level of the couple. I also note that the basic idea is also widely supported by my colleagues in the government. In addition, I would like to point out that statutory pensions were their own even before the introduction of Article 2.13.19. It seems to me inevitable that the introduction of the pension split will have an impact on matrimonial property law. The idea of a pension as its own right is contrary to the concept of a split. However, it is too early to make very specific statements on this matter. It is an extremely complex and sensitive matter. We must think very carefully about this and have a clear view of all the consequences. We cannot be expected to divide a good pension into two low pensions. Appropriate accompanying measures are necessary. Pension reform is currently being discussed within the government and the modernisation of the family dimension is being addressed. A working group will be set up within the National Pension Committee to deal specifically with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u45	Madam Secretary, indeed, this is not a simple dossier. You will also find a partner in us to think about this, because you know that we are also in favour of a pension split. You have rightly said that this is not the time to take a final position on this because it is so complicated. If you turn on a fish, someone else might loosen up. It's not that obvious. Nor is it intended that a pure pension split should lead to a general impoverishment. There must be solidarity, but you must not lose sight of the fact that in the end the taxpayer who will have to pay for any adjustments will have to pay. The partner who has been able to do pension building in a divorce thanks to the fact that the other partner has stayed at home must also be solidarity. It's a difficult exercise. Our group is prepared to consider this together with you and your government partners, if you are open to that, of course. I'll follow up on this file, because this is important. After twenty years of marriage, taking care of the children, the partner leaves and one gets an IGO, albeit without controls. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u46	Madam Minister, when calculating the ZIV contribution and the solidarity contribution to capital paid under the second pension pillar, a fictitious interest rate is determined. To determine this fictitious interest rate, a fictitious interest rate of 4.75% is still taken into account. Everyone, including you, is convinced that this is no longer in line with reality and that fairness is no longer guaranteed. At the beginning of last year, the Sigedis Advisory Committee was still working on a proposal for a revision. Madam Minister, you indicated in this committee, in January and May last year, that you will reform this. Where are your work on this matter, what adjustments do you envisage and when can we expect these results?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u47	Mrs Samyn, the current calculation of the ZIV contribution to pensions contains a number of injustices. Firstly, there are strong threshold effects. In certain income discs very high tax rates are applied. Secondly, there is the problem of conversion coefficients which are very outdated. As I said, I am prepared to find a solution to this. That is still the case, but I should like to take account of the social dialogue. Through the agreement of 8 June 2021, the social partners have raised this issue. This dossier is currently being discussed in the National Labour Council. I await the advice of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u48	Madam Secretary, it must not be left to speak alone. You state that the file has been with the NAR for some time now. I hope that there will be a relatively quick landing, especially in view of the importance of the dossier. The fact that successive governments have not dealt with this incorrect method of calculation is, of course, motivated by budgetary reasons. People are also being fooled by considering the second pillar as something that will move heaven and earth, whereas it is really nothing but a milk cow for the country's finances. By maintaining that fictitious interest rate at 4.75%, citizens pay taxes on money that they have never earned or received. That is, in fact, totally unfair. The Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman for Pensions noted this earlier. Taxation must be fair and equitable. Taxing non-revenue income is absolutely not that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u49	Madam President, Madam Minister, you know how much the problem of the financing of the statutory staff pension and the accountability contributions are time bombs for the finances of the local authorities. The first victims, I think we can call them that, are beginning to make themselves known. In particular, the cities of Charleroi, Mons and Liège are already unable to pay the accountability levy and are now using the Regional Centre for Aid to the Communes (CRAC) to finance it. The situation is just as complicated for many other Walloon municipalities. According to figures from the Union of Wallonia Cities and Municipalities (UVCW), the amount paid in 2020 and 2021 by all municipalities for the accountability contribution is now 87.8 million. In 2026, over five years, it will increase to over 237 million; 244 of the 262 Walloon municipalities, or almost 100% of the municipalities, will be affected. Of course, we must add the reality of the CPAS – the evolution of the figures is similar – but also of the intercommunal ones. And the hospitals, in chapter 12, also sound the alarm bell. The federated entities are aware of this catastrophic threat to the finances of our communes. Flanders has supported its municipalities and Wallonia is launching the Oxygen Plan. According to your colleague Mr Collignon, socialist minister of local authorities, this Oxygen plan is there to save the communal finances "stuffed by decisions taken at other levels, especially at the federal level". Minister, I have a lot of questions. How do you contribute to finding solutions in this issue, which is explosive today, but which will be even more so in the years to come? Are there contacts with federated entities? Has a consultation committee already taken place or is it going to take place on the subject? What are the solutions on the table? What is the deadline? Are structural changes foreseen in the correction factors? For what amounts? What's the calendar? What about the reserves of the former pool 1? Is a comprehensive reform planned and supported by your government? I have not seen a clear trace of this in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u50	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, I have been dealing with this matter since the first day I took office. I'm from a big city. Local authorities and local authorities are essential for our citizens, as we can see day after day and as we go through the crises that we are going through. It is therefore more necessary than ever to support them. I would remind you that the 128 million that were not originally provided for in the budgets were, following the government agreement, put in the budget adjustment for 2021, until 2024, with indexation. In addition, I will continue to ask that the federal government finance the malus, which amounts to EUR 60 million paid by the municipalities which do not have a second pillar and which suffer what I call double punishment. Indeed, it is the municipalities that are not rich that have to pay the cost for those who have been able to obtain a second pillar. As I have already said, I have tabled Phase 1 of the reform of the consolidated provincial and local government pension fund on the government table to ensure, in the short term, the financial and social sustainability of the Fund. Several texts I have already mentioned relating to late filiation, the reduction of the basic contribution for members of ex-pool 1, the basic contribution of 44% for 2023 and the settlement of situations relating to merger, dissolution, acquisition have thus been or are in the process of being adopted. We have to wait for the advice of the Council of State. When it comes to laws, they are tabled in the House. When these are orders, it is up to the government to take them. As regards the reserves of ex-pool 1, members will benefit from a 3% reduction on their basic contribution for the year 2023. Second, and as envisaged in the Government Agreement and in my Policy Note, Phase 2 of the reform will consist of consultations with the Regions, public hospitals, members of the Pension Management Committee of provincial and local governments. The aim is to maintain the Fund's budgetary balance in the medium and long term, while strengthening solidarity between the member administrations. We will discuss these different avenues with all stakeholders involved in this reform in order to ensure the long-term social and financial sustainability of the Fund. In collaboration with the federated entities - the consultations are already taking place - the cities and municipalities and the experts of our administration, we will prepare all the negotiations to have a comprehensive package at federal and regional level, validated by the Union of Cities and Municipalities for the negotiations of 2024 because there will be consequences at all levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u51	Madam Minister, I do not know the amounts for Brussels or Flanders. The amount I was quoting you earlier of more than €237 million long before 2026 concerns only the municipalities. We must therefore add all the other local authorities in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. The EUR 128 million you are talking about is obviously in relation to the total amount that this represents. I don't think that's much. I don't have a clear picture of all the figures, but to make a big guess, I think it's less than 10% of what that means. If I'm completely next to the plate, don't hesitate to correct me. That's a first point. This means that the gulf, the delta is enormous! I'm still talking about a very present reality. Several levels of power are involved. I am not saying the opposite at all. You didn't hear me say that. But the potential damage is enormous both on employment, on services to the population, on the investments of the municipalities and what is terrible today is that these loans are granted to finance the ordinary and not the extraordinary. [[The situation is therefore serious.]] But there's a second part. Concertations and discussions are indeed under way. You're telling me that you're delaying this to prepare the negotiations for 2024. Now, 2024, it is far from the full reality of today, when we see the enormity of what is happening. I also fear that reaching the 2024 negotiations with this type of debt on the table is not necessarily the best situation to discuss other issues. Minister, therefore, it does not seem to me to be a good strategy to link everything. We will see very concretely the solutions that will be provided by the federal government, but not only by the federal government. I agree with you. But, as your colleagues are, I have no doubt that concrete and strong solutions can be found, both for the reality of our communes but also for all the citizens and all the people who work for these communes and other local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u52	Madam President, Minister, it is every day that Ukrainian refugees try to save their lives, save the lives of their loved ones, flee horror and are on the road. They arrived in Belgium as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The solidarity that is taking place in Belgium must really be welcomed. A large number of Belgians contacted the communes and set out to support associations that offered the possibility of hosting refugees. If I ask you today, it is because the municipalities and the CPAS are at the forefront of the organisation of this solidarity but also in a whole series of indispensable supports: financial support, housing, social support, integration, facilitation for the teaching of children. There are many examples. Minister, what specific measures are going to be put in place by your department and by the government in relation to the assistance, and social assistance, of Ukrainian refugees at the level of CPAS? I have heard you plead in the press with the government, but you have not yet, as I understand it, obtained specific answers and real financial support. What about, for example, refugees accommodated in private homes who must have a reference address in order to receive social assistance? Is there ongoing consultation with your colleagues on the impact this can have on households hosting refugees, including a potential negative or positive impact on family allowances, pensions, replacement income, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Will the CPAS receive additional assistance in order to be able to carry out reception and social assistance work in the field at best? What will the role of CPAS be in accompaniment for Ukrainian refugees accommodated in private homes? Could it be envisaged that adaptation would be made so that the Local Host Initiatives would be strengthened and Ukrainian refugees would be able to benefit from these services adapted to the reception of foreigners?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u53	Madam Minister, the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, a terrible event, also has consequences in many different areas in Belgium. It is reported that 200,000 to 250,000 refugees from Ukraine could come to our country. At the moment there are several thousand already present here. For our OMCWs, it is already a challenge to respond to the concrete aid questions. We have just ended the corona crisis more or less, and as the crisis in Ukraine is unfortunately expected to continue and the number of people fleeing it will increase, it is very important that we develop far-reaching support measures, including for the OMCWs. I am making the situation of the OMCWs, which you, of course, know very well, a little more concrete. Last week in Ghent, the OCMW had already escorted 50 people to their first shelter and to the registration point in Brussels. Citizens also offer shelter in response to the HashtagPlekFree campaign, but these people need to be screened, because refugees must be put in a safe place in Belgium. I understand that the OMCWs also play a role in screening. That is certainly the case in Ghent, my city. Furthermore, OMCWs also play a role in the payment of the living wage, the granting of the Flemish growth package and the guidance to work and other essential services, such as psychosocial support, on which a large OCMW like Ghent is also committed. In short, the workload for the OMCWs will be increased. During the corona crisis, the government granted additional support to the OMCWs through an increased reimbursement rate for living wages. Are you considering similar temporary measures to cover the increased workload and costs for the OMCWs as a result of the Ukraine crisis? Have you taken any measures to this end? Will you ensure that a single person who offers shelter to one or more refugees will not be given the status of a cohabitant, so that he will not be punished for this. Perhaps it is a little early to do this, but what lessons do you generally draw from the roll-out of the temporary support measures you have taken during the coronapandemic? How will these lessons translate into your policy to deal with the consequences of the Ukraine crisis? There are indeed many parallels to be drawn, even if this is a different crisis. The OCMW's are already facing a high workload. There's a lot coming at them, and we're gonna have to back them up. The extent of the flow of refugees is currently unknown. Is a phased roll-out of support measures envisaged? Predictability is also important for the OMCWs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u54	Minister, I will ask myself a question that has not been easy to write. Indeed, I spent a lot of time on the phone with CPAS agents or local agents, who explained to me the situation to which they were exposed, with volunteers from the hosting platform – who are very accustomed to hosting people in difficult situations and asylum – as well as with people responsible for training, accompaniment and voluntary hosting. The least we can say is that the stake is high. There is a question of solidarity, but also of an organisation and a great deal of decency in this solidarity. So I had dozens and dozens of questions and had to think about how best to formulate them. I thought I'd wait and leave at least a few days for this Vivaldi to organize. The first thing we have seen since the beginning of this conflict is that it is clearly a societal commitment, essential and indispensable. For a solidarity and human state, this is a very interesting assessment in the context that we have known for years, and today more precisely with the Ukrainian context. I have also seen a real willingness to organise the reception, whether from associations, CPAS, the Regions, the federal government and people in solidarity or personal initiatives. The questions will come in the coming weeks. We'll be here for a while. I think we're going to have to constantly rebalance the situation, redefine, ask questions. But let's say that today, I would like to ask two direct questions. The CPAS are precisely asking themselves the question of how and how many resources this reception will require. What are the additional resources, personal, structural, material, etc. What will be available to them? For the host, the question still concerns the consequence of accommodation on its status. Is his status maintained, for example? Do you maintain all of your rights when you show solidarity by hosting someone at home? Are you also planning financial support? Indeed, we know that all this is combined with a socio-economic situation and an increase in energy prices. However, when you take a person home, energy consumption also increases. So I was wondering if there were any options. We talked earlier about the Gas and Electricity Fund - why not? – and the possibility of benefiting from a social tariff. In any case, I do know that the stakes are high, but I imagine you are working with a lot of energy on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u55	Minister, my colleagues have already drawn the context. A few moments ago, I was with Secretary of State Sammy Madhi to ask him the questions concerning this necessary and solidarity aid to this Ukrainian people who are in the greatest disarray and to whom we must reach out. Today, it is clear that the CPAS that do and are there to support Ukrainian refugees need to know the prospects and to receive answers to their expectations. In recent months, they have been confronted with difficult situations: Covid, floods, energy crisis and, today, the reception of Ukrainian refugees. Social workers in CPAS have been facing significant challenges over the past two years to help all those who are vulnerable by these crises. If they are very much solicited and put into use at present, they will be all the more so in the coming weeks and all this, in order to guarantee the dignity of those fleeing war and to ensure their right to social assistance, in particular. Minister, in Waremme, we are fortunate to have the President of the Federation of CPAS. I have many contacts with him. He is concerned about the situation of the Waremme CPAS as well as that of the other CPAS. Is specific funding for CPAS envisaged for the reception and social assistance of Ukrainian refugees? What answers will be provided by the government to the questions posed by CPAS regarding the financing of income equivalents for integration, front-line staff costs, social assistance work, translators, etc.- Is that what you're saying? New charges entail new costs. Will the families of the sheltered persons benefit from a rate corresponding to their situation (head of household or isolated) rather than the co-habitation rate, in order to promote their rapid self-reliance, particularly in terms of more sustainable housing? You have met with the Federation of CPAS: what are the conclusions of this meeting? Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi reported on the possibility of financial aid for Belgians making their homes available to Ukrainian refugees. Is that correct? Does the federal government intend to intervene at this level? I am now asking him the same question in the Committee on the Interior and I will go back there to find out what he thinks about it and what he says about it. What about the relay within the CPAS for Ukrainian refugees accommodated in private homes or for the citizens of our country who will receive them? Because there is also a need for this relay. How long can this emergency home be considered? Solidarity is there today, but it will not be eternal. Our fellow citizens also face real financial concerns for their future. Will Ukrainian refugees, registered at the Aliens Office and with protection, be transferred, in the short or medium term, to local reception initiatives, under the responsibility of CPAS in partnership with Fedasil?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u56	Madam Minister, it will indeed be a real challenge for the OCMWs to receive and support Ukrainian war refugees in a humane way. Will you give the OCMW's additional budgets? Will you possibly provide assistance from the federal level to cover the additional workload that this entails for the OMCWs? Will that be financial assistance or manpower? Have you made additional budgets to make living wages and/or children's money paid by the OCMWs? What coordinating role will your services possibly play in integrating these refugees into our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a health and energy crisis, we are confronted with war at the gates of the European Union with its dramatic consequences, particularly in the humanitarian sphere, as you have all reminded us. The CPAS and all their front-line and last-aid workers fear that they will be under pressure again, and we know that they will be under pressure again. For this reason, let me thank them for all the work they have done for many months. I will make every effort to ensure that they have sufficient resources to deal with this new crisis, as I have already done in the context of the covid or during the floods. My concern today is to provide for a federal intervention that will allow CPAS to take charge of this still uncertain flow of future beneficiaries and to best support these people. Beyond 100 per cent of the aid that will be granted to the refugee, I advocate to the government that it be increased to cover all administrative and other costs related to the cases. You mentioned them: staff costs, psychological follow-up, school fees and others. It'll be on Friday's Kern program. The proposal for an exceptionally increased rate of reimbursement is the result of the lessons I learned from the health debt crisis. Instead of individual subsidy jars, I would now like to set a global percentage. This system could make a significant contribution to administrative simplification, which is a key issue for me. During my meeting with the CPAS federations last Friday, I explained my intentions on the file. The SPP Social Integration also gave all the practical information and there are already FAQs on the SPP website. The right of membership of the mutual fund shall open at the time of registration of the application for temporary protection. It's for health care. Before that time, people are entitled to urgent medical assistance, since all those who arrive in our territory, regardless of their status, whether illegal or not, are entitled to urgent medical assistance, and this must be made known. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of recording today, at the level of Palais 8. There's a lot of noise going on. This has been put in some documents. This would be because there would be no urgent need to register because people would have 90 days to register with the Foreign Office. They do have 90 days, but there are major consequences related to this non-registration, particularly in terms of social and medical rights. I'm counting on you to get the message out. If they are not registered at Palais 8, this means that they do not have a temporary residence permit certificate; this means that they cannot go, in order not to overload the communes without necessity, to ask the commune first of all for an annex 15 which will then be transformed into card A after all the steps that the communes must take, like seeing where the person resides etc. They cannot go to the CPAS to ask if they need the equivalent of social integration income. Without this certificate, there is no right and I have said to the CPAS: if they give these rights, they will not be reimbursed, since people are not yet recognised as refugees, with a temporary stay as determined by the European Directive. So they have 90 days if they don't have any needs, money, health, or registration, for example, if they think they're staying with friends for a few days. But if they want rights, they have to have that certificate. And the municipalities cannot register them without this certificate. And without registration in a municipality, there is no registration in the CPAS. As regards the impact on social benefits in the event of temporary care, I immediately took the necessary measures in consultation with my colleagues. There will be no impact on the status of people receiving people. I say this in French: this means that citizens hosting refugees will not have a change of status. If they were isolated, they would remain isolated. If they had the household rate, that will remain the case. As far as the financial support for welcoming people is concerned, this is in no way within my competence. I believe that this is in no way within the jurisdiction of the federal government. Some are moving forward. All you have to do is ask the questions of those who are moving forward. I think it was Mrs. Fonck who talked about a reference address. A reference address is not required at this stage. No one can register for the CPAS, since these persons must be with the citizen, in a collective structure, or in a Fedasil structure, if they are not yet registered, in the current temporary period. It is the habitual residence that will determine the competence of the CPAS. Do not give a reference address either. All this was correctly said by the CPAS federations on Friday. We'll do a webinar next week with the PPS. It will, as usual, be open to all CPAS. Compared to your questions about ALI - it's also on the francophone side. It should be noted that this is a system reserved for the reception of asylum seekers. This system cannot therefore be activated. I think they're full. It must be realized that once someone has temporary protection status, they no longer enter the asylum-seeker system, and therefore no longer enter the Fedasil system. That's right! They are considered refugees - temporary, but refugees. This does mean that as long as they do not have their certification, and they have not spread among the municipalities, they are under the authority of Fedasil. Once it is done, the authority of the Regions, the CPAS and the municipalities prevails, as you have said. That's really the logic. Don't be mistaken! My cabinet and the POD MI are following the situation closely. Communication with regard to the OMCWs is a key issue here. It is essential to provide the right information. In terms of each person's competencies, it is good to look at what the administration and the competent ministers say. The path evolves as the person who arrives here moves, depending on whether or not he wishes this temporary title. Some just want to stay a few days in a family and hope to get back home very quickly. If they do not want this temporary status, they must do nothing. On the other hand, to have this temporary status, one must have a certificate and follow the path. In addition, the situation will not be the same whether it is with a private person or with a public infrastructure. CPAS will really play a central role. I'm going to try to have a per-person refund rate, not envelopes, which are too heavy to handle for CPAS. In addition, I do not see why CPAS that do not accept refugees would receive envelopes of subsidies. I therefore plead for a higher rate of reimbursement per person received, or per family. There will be only one income per family. I hope to have the government's decision on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The response of the authorities, at all levels of power, must of course be commensurate with the seriousness of the situation and the disarray of these people. I understand that some aspects do not fall within your competence, but all the authorities must be on the same line, which I believe is the case today. Above all, we must avoid turning the ball back. In concrete terms, all the different levels of power...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u60	In the framework of a consultation committee, in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u62	Above all, let's find a coherent set and avoid ping-pong games. On the other hand, it is obviously important to have the right information. But maybe we can change some things. Today, there is this place of registration at Heysel. When I see the reality of these people, I think it is necessary to consider decentralization of the place of registration in order, in collaboration with the municipalities, to facilitate things. This will also help to avoid the need to repeat history fifty times and improve the situation. Be reassured, we will make the same requests to the competent Secretary of State since you are not the only one concerned in this government. There is no question of impact on status for hosting companies. But there is also the tax component. Indeed, revenues under one roof could be increased as there will be the additional RIS. Sometimes households can accommodate several adults. In doing so, you are not Minister of Finance, but may I ask you to be careful to avoid an impact that could potentially be negative at the tax level for hosting companies. Like you, we will follow the case in the interests of solidarity, which I hope is collective, with the aim of supporting Ukrainians and their loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u63	Madam Secretary, I see a great will on your part to give sufficient support to the OCMWs. You also have a partner in Ecolo-Green to do it to the full. I am pleased that lessons have been learned from the pandemic and that something efficient and simple has been chosen for which the OMCW does not have to do anything additional or have to provide additional accountability. This is important because it allows attention to be paid to what is really important in the field, such as the support of individuals. It is also very good that there will be no impact on the status of people who host others. I would certainly like to repeat my plea for decentralisation. You clearly said that no right could be opened without that certificate. I also understand that this cannot be done on the basis of a start-up report from the OMCW. The certificate must be there and not with retroactive effect. We need to stay as close to the people as possible to register them as soon as possible and to be able to open their rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u64	As regards simplification and increase, I think it is not a secret to say that you are fully supported and that we hope that Friday's Kern will make it possible to move forward on this issue. About the right of affiliation in succession to urgent medical aid, it is something extremely important to us. On the question of aid for hosting companies, if it is not the federal jurisdiction, I fear that it is the competence of not a big world. This is a case that is not new because we know that there are a lot of people who are hosting people who are fleeing conflict. But this is a new situation in its recognition. So we're going to have to adapt the situation. I have spoken about aid for energy costs. I wonder what a CPAS could do to a person who comes to tell him that he is housing a family of two, three refugees, that his energy cost will increase, that he did not have access to CPAS aid because his income did not allow him to be entitled to it and that he would come to ask him if he could access these aids now. This means that with respect to the funds received by the CPAS, jurisdiction shifts towards the federal government. Could it be imagined in the light of this situation of receiving Ukrainian refugees? I think that is one of the issues that will come back in a few weeks. There is a risk of a shortage of reception places if accommodation providers find themselves in a precarious situation of equilibrium. As far as RIS is concerned, the information will have to be clarified. CPAS sent me information on retroactivity. We do need the paper. You must be registered and then come with the document, but there is a retroactive effect from the time the registration was taken into account. These are things that may need to be checked with the CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u66	I think there is another question that will arise. Will people who come without being able to set a minimum period of stay in a municipality still be granted assistance? These people will arrive and declare that they live here temporarily; they don't know for how many days or how many weeks. If it's not problematic, it's perfect. I'll pass it on. But in the field, it's not always that simple. For example, a CPAS will send them back to another municipality by saying that it does not provide them with accompaniment because it knows that they will move to another municipality in the short term. These are things that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u67	This is not where we're going to do operational technology. Our administration gives webinars all the time. I've seen the CPAS federations. They're doing a lot. It is not said that the CPAS is not attributed to people because they will stay in the commune only for 15 days. If there is a registration in the municipality, that is what counts. You have to register in the commune. We will not make a reference address to the CPAS. If the municipality has registered the person, the reference CPAS becomes that of the municipality. If the municipality did not register the person, then there is no reference CPAS. There will therefore be no reference address to the CPAS, otherwise it will begin to be complicated. There'll be a ping-pong between the CPAS. I don't think this is a job to do here. Once we get all the data, our administration will make webinars. There will be FAQs. There's already a newsletter. We're in contact with CPAS all the time, but they need to go see the information. In any case, I do not think that the CPAS will read our current debates here in Parliament. If they don't look at the FAQs, they won't read our debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u68	The same vigilance work takes place at the communal level. When local agents send us information, we can also say that the most information flows, the best it is. I'm gonna stop monopolizing the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u69	Madam Minister, I agree with what has been said. Indeed, the work is currently being done to ensure that information flows from administrations to CPAS and municipalities. As you mentioned, the key point is registration within 90 days. A few minutes ago, I was with the Secretary of State. This information went wrong when it was said that there was no urgency. And there, as you allude, there is an emergency in any case if you need medical assistance, financial or other assistance. Information must therefore go well at the level of administrations through the CPAS federations to the CPAS on the one hand, to the communes and to those who need help on the other. It is not simple, but it is necessary to avoid tragedies where victims, who have already made a terrible journey, are not in a position to know what door to ring. But that makes sense. It also takes time for things to get going. We cannot say that we were prepared for the situation. I think we're fixing the emergency and structuring the work. I have no doubt that you will do so in particular with the collaboration of the CPAS federations and with your administration. I am also reassured to learn that there will be no impact on those who welcome. It's important. Indeed, it is a free solidarity. If the ball is referred to and the federal government declares that it is not within its jurisdiction, the communes will have to assume a huge burden, as is the case with the host families. I therefore hope that solutions can be found. If they do not come from the federal government, I welcome, in any case, your idea that it will have to be aided through the CPAS according to the number of people who are welcomed in the territory of the communes. Some municipalities will make more efforts than others. In addition, the attractiveness of some municipalities is greater than others. It is easy to think that large cities will receive more victims than small towns, even though I like small towns in the very bottom of the province of Luxembourg. It is logical that solidarity should be set up, but aid must also be concentrated on the municipalities that will have to make the most of their efforts. I agree with my colleague Mrs Fonck that care must be taken to simplify registration and not to oblige already exhausted persons who are in Liège, for example, to come to Brussels to register by introducing administrative simplification and decentralised offices. I raised the matter with the Secretary of State responsible for the matter earlier. I can only note that at the federal level, everyone is putting the energy needed to provide an answer. In any case, I wouldn't want to be in your place! Let us stand together, let us be effective! As we have demonstrated in the fight against covid, we can put in place structural measures and be effective. We must also be faced with this human tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u70	Madam Minister, in a previous reply, I said that the pressure on the OCMWs was already enormous, with a corona crisis that has been dragging on for more than two years now and the consequences of the out-of-control energy prices. The OCMW's now sound an additional cry for help. They simply cannot handle the reception of war refugees from Ukraine and the extra work that this will bring with them. It is good to hear that you will provide additional support. It is very important that the needy Ukrainian refugees find a maximum and safe shelter. It's mostly women and children. Their ambition is not to live here permanently, but to find a safe place to live. We must do our duty here. It is only logical that we receive these refugees. It is also our humanitarian mission. You are still looking at the financial aspect and that will be discussed at the core on Friday. It is certain that the financial cost of these refugees will have a huge impact on our social security. It should be possible to consider, for example, a separate status for these refugees and the proposal of your coalition partner, Open Vld, to provide weekly allowance instead of a living wage. Those are just a few examples. Moreover, we must avoid abuse and fraud by so-called fake refugees. They can't be supposed to take the place of people who really need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament C), by Mrs Lanjri and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mrs Thémont's 55026071C has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55026008C was also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u72	Questions Nos 55026002C by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and 55026071C by Mrs Sophie Thémont are postponed. Mr Boukili also requested the postponement of his question No 55026008C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u73	Madam Minister, in January, the Chamber adopted the bill allowing the Federal Pension Service to act as a central purchasing body for the local and provincial authorities. This was necessary because the previous managers had indicated their intention to terminate the agreement on 1 January 2022. The adopted bill creates a legal basis for the Federal Pension Service to also prepare a public contract so that local authorities can obtain a new administrator for the supplementary pension pillar of their contractual officials. The measure will take effect retroactively provided that the new framework agreement has been signed before 31 December, so there is an obligation to that effect. The contract will be awarded to the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service. The Management Committee shall have the power to award the agreement. Madam Secretary, can you give an update on this file? How many municipalities and cities have already indicated their willingness to sign up - which I believe should be - to this framework agreement? What procedure is being followed? Are the conditions under which the award will take place already known?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u74	Ms. De Block, after the adoption of the bill, the Pension Service immediately started preparations. Because of its complexity, work is being carried out on the basis of a competitive tendering procedure with negotiations. This procedure takes place in two stages. In a first phase, the Pension Service shall announce the public contract and communicate the selection criteria on the basis of a selection guidance board. In the second phase, the Pension Service will invite the selected candidates to submit a tender. Negotiations will then be launched. The selection guide was approved by the local management committee last Friday and was published. It describes the services to be provided and the selection criteria. The Management Committee has opted for a pension system of the type of fixed contributions, such as today, managed by a pension fund. The potential candidates will be known in the second half of April. Meanwhile, the Pension Service is continuing its work on the specifications. It describes the conditions in more detail. At present, the number of municipalities participating is not yet known. The Boards shall decide on their accession only after the procedure has been completed. The Pension Service shall make every effort to inform local authorities as best as possible. The boards are written, but also a website is provided and webinars are organized. I trust that in this way we can offer a timely solution to the local authorities and ensure the continuity of supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u75	Madam Secretary, there was a study day on gender and retirement. You know that the gender dimension for my party is also an essential aspect of the roll-out of pension reform. The pension gap is 33% in Belgium. This means that the equality between men and women is not recognised sufficiently in our current pension system. Madam Secretary, what were the main conclusions of the study day for you? How will they affect your further work? You saw the study day as the starting point for a year of work on women and pensions. How will you complete this year of operation in concrete terms? Can you describe the plan of approach for developing the pension split, modernising the family dimension and upgrading part-time work in the calculation of the minimum pension? I understand that you want to take measures in the shorter term and that additional research is needed in order to divide pensions and modernise the family dimension. I fully agree with you that the pension split is very important, but that it should not result in a small pension being converted into two much smaller pensions. That will therefore have to be done very carefully. I understand you share that analysis, too. The government agreement also contains a passage on the introduction of a condition of effective employment or another equivalent measure for the granting of the minimum retirement pension. The government's agreement of course also requires that this be done in practice. Can an interpretation of the government agreement that increases the inequality between men's and women's pensions be an option for you? I think this is a rhetorical question. Do you believe that the government agreement should at least be interpreted in the light of our efforts to close the gender gap, including in the area of pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u76	Madam Minister, in the context of International Women's Day, you and the Minister for Self-employed and the various administrations organised a very interesting seminar on gender and retirement, on which I was also present. In Belgium, the pension gap is larger than the wage gap and is 33%. This is due to the inequality between women and men during their careers. Women take care jobs more often, work part-time, have jobs that pay less or have fewer promotional opportunities and, above all, less supplementary pension. What decisions do you take from the study day? How will these policies be translated? I heard, for example, the representative of the Planning Bureau argue that the periods treated as women are just as well protected. Women take on more care tasks, and even if we take 100 measures, we cannot solve everything through pensions alone. Those caring tasks will always be there. Of course, they can be distributed more fairly between men and women. In any case, we find that the periods treated protect women very well. Women would receive up to 46 % less pension, should we completely delete the treated periods. The speaker also suggested that the arrangements for part-time work should be strengthened. In doing so, the Planning Office gave an important message on the day of study. How do we deal with that in the pension reform? It is stated in the government agreement that more account is taken of the periods worked, but also of the outcome of the gender test. On the day of study, you also announced the start of a whole year of work on women and pensions. What else is planned in that year? The pension split has already been partly addressed. I agree with you and have also tabled a legislative proposal on the pension split for the supplementary pension. This may indeed strengthen the family solidarity between couples, but I remain particularly cautious in this regard. We cannot simply introduce the pension split in view of the risk of impoverishment. It is difficult to survive with two very small pensions, which are virtually impossible to live on, even if one can count on an IGO. I think we should be vigilant about the consequences of the pension split. A further study would be carried out to see whether a minimum level of protection should be set up. How's the study coming? When can we expect the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u77	I am pleased that your party agrees with me that gender equality is an essential point of attention in the retirement pension dossier. The study was indeed the start of a year of work on gender and pension, but we must of course continue to focus on this issue. Various activities are planned. For example, a microanalysis of derived rights is under way, which should provide answers to questions such as who uses derived rights, how high they are and what their own rights are. We must not sail blind. That is why monitoring the gender dimension is so important. In his pension state, the citizen or professional will be able to consult all the interesting figures. After measuring, of course, it's time for a change. That is why we are working with the social partners to modernise the family dimension. The impact of the pension split is on the agenda, but it needs to be addressed wisely. Indeed, both partners must not end up in poverty. It is therefore necessary to ensure minimum protection for statutory pensions and supplementary pensions, i.e. for the first pillar and for the second pillar. The revaluation of part-time work in the minimum pension and the protection of such periods are important measures in my reform proposal. I have absolutely no intention of implementing a measure that increases inequalities between men and women. That goes against my principles, because it would be a step back for women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u78	Thank you for your state of affairs. It's gonna be a while to study and wait. It will undoubtedly be a major challenge to implement the government agreement on effective employment without affecting women's rights. I wish you every success. I feel very strong. Indeed, you have our full support and a partner on your side to keep the door completely closed and locked for any measure that would increase the gap rather than narrow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u79	From our group, too, you have the full support for such an important approach. The pension gap is, as I said earlier, even greater than the pay gap. I found the figures given by the Planning Bureau on the study days to be quite speaking and striking. It will indeed be a challenge to reconcile the two policy agreements in the coalition agreement. It is important in the light of equal rights for women that they can count on a pension and attention is paid to the fact that they take on more care tasks than men, not always out of choice, but because of waiting lists and lack of space and lack of investment in public collective care services. We must not impose additional penalties on them in their old age. In any case, I look forward to the results of the additional studies on the pension split and on the derived rights. I would also like to take this opportunity to urge the extension of the scheme to the people living together. We did not do that when we extended the transitional allowance scheme, because this also presupposes an extension of the survivor's pension scheme, because everyone must enjoy equal rights. However, I think that we should take that point into account in all pension reform in these modern times, when it comes to pensions and gender.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u80	A lot of support and encouragement. That is always the case, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u81	Madam Minister, last December I asked you a similar question. As you know, at the beginning of each school year, the phenomenon of the shortage of teachers is always emerging. There may be a temporary and partial solution to this problem, but in the context of corona the problem was even more acute. It turned out that many early retirees were willing to jump in, but of course there were a number of legal barriers. In order to ensure that early-retired teachers can earn unlimited income in education, an exception would be made during the corona crisis through a relaxation of the cumulation rules for pension income and labour income. They would therefore no longer be financially punished. That was announced by you on December 15, 2021. After some hesitation, you said that you received a letter on this matter from Flemish Minister of Education Ben Weyts, who asked for a permanent exception for teaching staff. You said: 'I put the question to the government. For the care staff, the combination of the pension with an income from work is allowed until 30 June 2022. I've asked my administration to draft a royal decision for education. I will present this text to the government in the coming weeks." In the meantime, they'll be over in the next few weeks. Has the government effectively decided to allow young pensioners to earn unlimited extra income in education, without sanctions for their pensions? Will this happen retroactively? When was the KB approved? Until when does the measure you would have taken apply? Will you answer the question of Flemish Minister of Education Ben Weyts, to make the exception for the teaching staff permanent? I ask you these questions because there seems to be a great deal of uncertainty in the workplace. Young retired teachers who have addressed questions and needs have apparently to find that the Federal Public Service Pensions is apparently not fully associated with the story of unlimited additional earnings, even though it is only temporary. They are now in danger of being sanctioned for their efforts in the interests of our children. I look forward to your redeeming answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u82	Indeed, Mr Van der Donkt, retired teachers can earn unlimited extra income in education without any consequences for their pension. The sector continues to suffer from a shortage of teachers due to the omikron wave. It was therefore decided to relax the cumulation rules also for teachers in secondary, primary and pre-school education. The neutralisation shall apply for the period from 1 January 2021 to 30 June 2022. For the sake of clarity, this is an exceptional and temporary exemption from these professional revenues. We cannot answer the question of Flemish Minister of Education Ben Weyts to make this exception permanent for teaching staff. A permanent exemption would mean that teachers would always be able to accumulate their pension with a full-time relationship from the earliest possible retirement date. I don't think that's the intention. This exceptional measure in the context of the fight against the coronavirus was therefore deliberately limited in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you for the clear answer. This has led to a misunderstanding or a lack of clarity in the education market. Apparently people have been misinformed, because I am aware of cases of people who have not received the updated information from pension services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u84	Madam Secretary, the Global Disability Summit took place online on 16 and 17 February. Around the table were representatives of governments, donors, civil society and the private sector. All these people were concerned about the issue of the integration of people with disabilities, with this time paying particular attention to those people in low-income countries. An estimated 1 billion people have disabilities and 80% of them live in the poorest countries. It is also estimated that 50% of children with disabilities do not have access to education in those countries. That means 32 million kids can't go to school. One of the challenges of the summit was to ensure that stakeholders see disability not only as a health problem, but as a social issue in itself. Political decision-makers who took part in the summit were given the opportunity to discuss this, to find solutions, to work together and to activate levers to improve the situation. Was the Belgian Government also represented at the summit? If so, what was the contribution of the Belgian Government? If not, are there programmes on-going or coming in support of such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u85	Mrs Vanpeborgh, the aim of the summit was to draw attention to people with disabilities in development cooperation. Because the focus was mainly on development cooperation and my agenda didn't allow it, I wasn't there myself. By the way, no member of the federal government could be present. With regard to the programmes on persons with disabilities in the framework of Belgian development cooperation, I invite you to put a question to Minister Kitir. She is committed to the problem through the Handicap Plan. That's her responsibility. Belgium will participate in the annual conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to be held from 14 to 16 June. I intend to go to this conference. Moreover, in a spirit of cooperation, we will make the necessary resources available so that the Belgian organisations of persons with disabilities can also participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u86	It is, of course, regrettable to learn that no one was, but I fully understand that. It happens. We should be proud of our policies, where we see disability not as a health problem, but as a social issue. It may be a missed opportunity, but she'll definitely be picked up again. You will participate in the United Nations Conference. Hopefully you will take that message, the view we have on inclusive policies, with that too. Nice steps have been taken. The Constitution has been revised. The price of love has been abolished. The price of labour has been reformed. These elements can and can all be taken with them. We're gonna follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic728x.u87	I must point out that question No 55026053C by Mrs Nahima Lanjri is transformed into a written question. I forgot to say it and went straight to Mr. Van der Donckt. We have finished and I wish everyone a good end of the day. See you tomorrow for most of us. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your presence.
