ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u1	In order to ensure the smooth running of the sitting, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u2	Based on a rough estimate of my administration based on the contributions of entity I and entity II to the total gross consolidated debt of 2021, the impact for the joint government could be estimated at around 500 million euros in 2022 and 1.25 billion euros in 2023. My ambition to reduce public debt has not been reduced. I therefore fully support that answer, but I would like to stress that there are still very difficult economic times. Corona seems to be on the way back, but the war in Ukraine, the rising inflation, the threatening shortages of supplies of raw materials, which give rise to downward revisions of economic growth, do not make the exercise easy. That is why the European Commission has recently decided to extend the general escape clause by one year. I believe that all members of the government are convinced that the primary aim should be to stabilise the Belgian debt rate. On the basis of the 2022-2025 stability programme, the objective is to achieve a debt ratio for the joint government of 109.7 % by 2024. The objective is, of course, based on the macroeconomic parameters considered at the time. The stability programme does not distinguish between the debt ratio of entity I and entity II, but a rudimentary assessment of my administration would set the target for entity I in that context at 87% debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State. You spoke of a debt of 109 %. Based on the National Bank's projections last week, the government debt would be set at 120 % or even 130 %. In the light of this 130 %, this objective is certainly ambitious. So we will certainly have to adjust all sails. Yesterday, the Belgian Debt Agency stated in its annual report that it was no longer based on a reduction in interest charges, but on an increase. This year interest charges would still be 1.23% of GDP. Instead of falling to 1.17 %, the Agency now expects an increase to 1.34 %. Dark clouds converge above the Rue de la Loi, because today's debts are tomorrow's taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u5	Mr Vermeersch, in the European Commission's country-specific recommendations of 23 May, the Commission itself states that the higher government deficit of 2023 is mainly due to a less favourable macroeconomic scenario and to the failure to take into account unspecified measures. This includes the variable effort, which has an impact of about 0.3 % in 2023. Meanwhile, the European Commission has decided that the budgetary rules for 2023 are also suspended by the high uncertainty and downward adjustment of the economic outlook, following the war in Ukraine, the high energy prices and the persistent problems of raw materials and supplies. However, we must remain vigilant and, in the meantime, take the necessary steps to put our budget in order. At the end of April Belgium submitted its stability programme to the European Commission. It also sets out the objectives to be achieved in the coming years within a given macroeconomic context. It is a responsibility not only of the federal government, but also of the Länder, to work together to ensure that the objectives set out therein are actually achieved. First of all, I would like to point out that the government has never set itself the target of knocking down a deficit of 3% by 2024. In the general budget statement of 2021, i.e. at the start of this government, you can see that the nominal balance for entity I for 2023 was estimated at a deficit of 3.3 % of gross domestic product. However, the government agreed to pursue a sensible and dynamic fiscal policy and to significantly improve the fiscal path during the legislative period. The government will make a steady effort of 0.2 per cent of gross domestic product each year and will also make a variable structural effort on the basis of economic growth and economic recovery. Within the government this summer, including with a view to drawing up the 2023, it will be necessary to consider what measures can be taken to address the deficit. I will not anticipate that discussion. Many options are possible, such as the pension reform you mentioned and addressing public expenditure. By the way, for the latter we are committed, for example, to conducting spending reviews that critically examine the efficiency and effectiveness of certain measures. I am also thinking, for example, of measures that increase the level of effectiveness and the effective implementation of the labour agreement. I have already indicated that the implementation of this work deal and the pension reform are extremely important for me to avoid the budget derailment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, if the procedure were to be fully applied, we would not have taken any action and we would have taken the effects of corona and Ukraine out of the budget, Belgium would be on the slaughter bench today. As far as the 3% in 2024 is concerned, you have stated several times in the press that you can pay for it in 2024. You are right to refer to the fact that it does not necessarily appear in the coalition agreement. However, if you, as Secretary of State, make statements in the press and you say that you are to be paid for, you will speak on behalf of the government. So you are setting an objective on behalf of the government. Not all your government partners are on the same page about that, we talked about it last week. However, if we, as Secretary of State, hear you say that we can deal with the deficit of 3% in 2024, we will take that as the government's objective. It is also clear that the spending reviews you are proposing will not be enough to get there, even if it is a valuable initiative. The employment deal concluded in October also took up to nine months for this government to lay its egg..... will certainly not be enough to reach the 80% rate of activity in that country. Much more will be needed, as described in the European Commission's analysis. We can support this in part. For example, pension reform is necessary to ensure long-term sustainability of pensions for future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, a number of weeks have passed since the answer to a number of questions on this subject. With regard to Ukraine's expenditure, such as living wages and so on, developments can best be followed in the short term. After all, the numbers are changing strongly: initially there were 200 to 300,000 people who would come here, whereas now there are a lot less. I refer to my question as tabled in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u8	Mr Vermeersch, the present draft budgetary control 2024 includes a commission of EUR 800 million. This amount is foreseen to finance expenditure linked to the consequences of the war in Ukraine until the end of August. Around EUR 400 million was provided for the award of a living wage and around EUR 135 million for the additional costs of OMCWs. These estimates were based on a total influx of 143 000 refugees by the end of June. Of this total number of refugees it was assumed that 43% is underage and therefore does not qualify for a living wage. In other words, the hypothesis was that 57%, or 81,510 people, would apply for a living wage. In the meantime, it appears that this number has been overestimated for the time being. On 18 May there were 42,342 people who received a certificate for temporary protection. New estimates have been drawn up in the context of the budget statement 2023. These estimates now start from the assumption that there will be 78,000 refugees, half of whom will apply for aid covering an average of 1.8 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u9	As a result, the cost of reimbursement of the living wage is estimated at around 222 million euros. Taking into account the reimbursement of the costs to the OMCWs, the annual impact for 2022 is estimated at EUR 290 million. With regard to reception, 5,000 reception places and a cost of EUR 65 per day are taken into account. This gives a cost of 10 million euros per month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, these are some new figures. I heard you mention 78,000 people, half of whom would use the living wage, with a cost of EUR 222 million. Is the 222 million euros you mentioned the cost for 2022? You said that this was in the context of budgetisation 2023. However, I suspect that EUR 222 million is the cost of living wages for 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u11	As more refugees are coming, this number is building up. This is the estimate of the cost in 2022. In 2023, the cost will depend on the number of refugees who are still staying here. Hopefully they can go back, of course. If that war drags on for years, they'll probably stay here longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u12	EUR 222 million is therefore the cost of living wages for this year. Let us indeed hope that the war will clear up quickly there, so that the cost for the budget can also be limited and that these people can, of course, return to their homeland. That's what they want most in the end. About 5,000 shelters are provided. I shall certainly check the figures in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u13	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u14	Mr Vermeersch, we have already discussed this question in recent weeks. Budgetary control does indeed take into account the first technical estimate of the Federal Planning Office following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, where the economy would have a growth slowdown of 0,5% compared to the estimates from the February 2022 economic budget, which reflected a situation before the outbreak of the war. According to the technical estimate, the impact on the joint government's balance of claims would be 0.28%. On the basis of entity I's share in the cyclical component, the impact of the slowdown on entity I's balance sheet was taken into account as a cyclical adjustment of EUR 1 billion. As budgetary control for 2022 already takes into account a growth slowdown of 0.5 %, the estimates therefore take into account an economic growth of 2.5 %. Table 28 in the general explanatory memorandum shows the impact of an annual growth slowdown of 0.5 % compared to the base hypothesis used. This means that the 2022 table reflects the impact on the balance of claims at a growth rate of 2% in 2022. The balance of claims for entity I would therefore deteriorate by 0.2 % and would be estimated at a deficit of 4% of gross domestic product. If we take into account an elasticity coefficient of 0.6, the impact of a growth slowdown of 0.5 percent on the debt balance for joint government could be estimated at 0.3 % or 1.66 billion euros in 2022. This would lead to a deficit of 5.5 percent of gross domestic product for the general government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, budgetary control has already adjusted growth from 3% to 2,5%. The European Commission is talking about a reduction of 1%, i.e. to 2% growth, but you do not take this into account in budgetary control. Budgetary control has an impact of 1.1 billion on the 2022 balance. If we extrapolate this, and this is also in the table - to 2027, this impact is already close to EUR 8 billion. It is, of course, the figures for entity 1. However, we would like to look at the figures for the joint government, which is ultimately also the European Commission's benchmark. We have already had a deficit of EUR 28 billion this year. You say that for the public authorities, this year's balance of payments alone would deteriorate by EUR 1.66 billion. This means, as I said in plenary, that we may unfortunately end up with a deficit of EUR 30 billion for the joint government this year. That is the direction in which we are evolving. That is, of course, dramatic. The deficit realised in 2021, which was still a full corona year, was already 28 billion. This would mean that this year we still have a bigger deficit than in 2021. All the alarm bells should go off in your government, but I notice that many colleagues are not yet awake from the situation. With better figures, we could of course have done much more for our people, including in terms of purchasing power measures. The debate on this would lead us too far here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u16	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I now have a whole series of questions about the distribution of invoices. You know that the Flemish interest is a Community party. So certainly the discussions between the different levels, governments and entities in this country are very important to us. I would like to go into a number of partitions in more detail through a number of questions, in particular the specific sighs or issues that have appeared in the press. I will talk first about the distribution of vaccines. That point was first raised and quantified in the Monitoring Committee's report. The report referred to €1.42 billion of undivided measures. Among other things, it involved EUR 527 million for the purchase of vaccines. The budget mentions EUR 300 million for this purpose. A correction has been made to this effect. What is the federal government's position on the booster bill? What is the state's position? Madam Secretary of State, has there been an agreement with the Länder in the meantime? After all, I understood that the matter would be resolved further in June 2022. If so, with which states is there an agreement? If not, when do you intend to reach an agreement? I'd like to have a specific date. Very specifically, the Flemish budget only includes a commission of EUR 40 million for preventive health policy related to corona. In the media, the Flemish Minister for the Budget, your colleague in the Flemish government Matthias Diependaele, stated that the Flemish government expects EUR 210 million from the federal government as a reckoning for the first vaccination campaign. Can you confirm or refute that amount of EUR 210 million in your capacity as Secretary of State? Has the government received a claim of EUR 210 million from the Flemish Government? Do you have any knowledge, in your capacity as State Secretary, of the origin of the amount and how it was compiled? Can an agreement be reached on the amount with the Flemish Government? What is the budgetary impact on the balance of exposures of entity I and entity II respectively for 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u17	Negotiations with the Länder on the booster bill are still ongoing. The federal government's position is still that communities should include their competence in prevention. Meanwhile, the initial registered receipt of EUR 527 million was adjusted to EUR 302 million in budgetary control, as the charge of Covax vaccines is 100% for the federal government. In addition, an additional €124 million was subscribed to be received from the communities for testing and other corona-related costs handled through the RIZIV. This brings the total to EUR 426 million in revenue entered in the budget. In accordance with the Protocol Agreement and the invoices submitted, a settlement was made at the end of 2021 for each federated entity on the basis of the number of vaccinees on 30 November 2021. For Flanders, this amount amounted to 213 million euros. These were 5.315.493 vaccinees, which resulted in a total cost of 462.5 million euros. The federal share of these costs is 80% or 370 million euros, of which 160 million euros had already been prefinanced. The remaining balance to be repaid was therefore EUR 210 million, which was increased by EUR 3 million for vaccine costs. These amounts were committed at the end of 2021 and settled on the budget of the Public Health Office, using the additional appropriations entered for this purpose through the fifth page of the 2021 budget. The general explanatory statement includes the cost of EUR 527 million as an undivided correction at the level of the joint government. In other words, regardless of whether the financing is carried out by entity I or entity II, it has been taken into account in the estimate of the balance for joint government. So depending on who it finances, the exposure balance of the relevant entity deteriorates by the same amount, but not that of the joint government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, I note that the negotiations are still ongoing. I also understand from your reply that you do not have a specific date on when this will have to be resolved. This shows that these negotiations are not going well at all. The federal government and the Länder are clearly no longer able to conclude agreements which are important in budgetary terms. We are talking about very substantial amounts of money here. It is clear that the federalism of cooperation in this country is not working at all. Simply sending invoices shows that the relationship between the different levels in this country is becoming more and more problematic, especially now that the budgetary situation is becoming acute. It is increasingly difficult to conclude these cooperation agreements. You also confirm the amount of EUR 210 million, of which you are aware. We will continue to monitor this situation in Parliament, because this is an interesting subject for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, as I said earlier in my introduction, as a Community party which makes it a cornerstone of its operation, we naturally find this division particularly interesting, because the budget and the Community touch here. The Monitoring Committee's report of 17 March 2022 contained another important measure that was undivided, namely the EUR 153 million cost of the plastic contribution to Europe. Despite discussions between you and the Länder, there is still no agreement, I believe, on who will pay the plastic contribution. As long as there is no agreement with the Länder, as we noted during the previous question sessions, this plastic contribution is simply financed by the federal government. She's in charge of the federal treasury. Firstly, I would like to hear from you the views of the federal government and those of the Länder. Secondly, has there been an agreement? If so, with which states and with which not? If not, when do you hope to reach an agreement? Third, what is the budgetary impact on the balance of exposures of entity I and entity II respectively? You put it correctly, and it doesn't matter to the joint government, of course. These are invoices that are moved internally, as well as a consolidation whereby the companies send internal invoices to each other. It does, of course, matter for the entity's balance sheet. Fourthly, how can this plastic contribution contribute effectively to reducing the production and circulation of plastic? The question arises because what is happening here with this plastic tax is a purely budgetary measure. Who will pay the bill? This has nothing to do with any steering effect on the use of plastics, it is simply an additional financing of the European Union. Finally, this plastic tax can only raise money for the Belgian Treasury if it is decided to charge more than EUR 0.8 per kilogram of non-recycled plastic in this country. Is that an option considered by this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u20	Mr Vermeersch, the position of the federal government stems from the budget agreement of 15 January 2021 on the preliminary draft law approving the Own Resources Decision 2020/2053, which is also referred to in the notification of the Council of Ministers of 22 January 2021. The federal government may be responsible for pre-financing and the transfer to the European Union, but the final financing and budgetary burden will have to lie with the Regions. This conclusion is based on the fact that the powers of non-recycled plastics, packaging waste and, more generally, waste policy are regional powers. The Federal Government must take into account Article 2 of the Law of 23 January 1989 on the tax jurisdiction referred to in Article 10 (1) and (2) of the Constitution. However, the Region states that the plastic contribution is an additional contribution to the functioning of the European Union. For them, European contributions have always been borne by the federal government. It is therefore a federal responsibility for them. The Federal Government can therefore freely decide how it finances this contribution, from the general funds, with a new federal levy or with a modification of the existing packaging levy. The federal government and the Regions are therefore opposed to each other. Each of these policy levels considers that the other level should ultimately assume the budgetary burden of the plastic contribution. The negotiations are still ongoing. I can tell you, as was the previous question, that these matters will be discussed at the next meeting on 13 July. I'm not saying there'll be an agreement by then. The budgetary impact of the plastic contribution is estimated at EUR 156 million for 2022. The federal government's view is that this is a regional matter. It is therefore primarily the competence of the Regions to take the necessary measures to reduce the circulation and production of plastic. Finally, I repeat that this is not a federal competence. Consequently, no option has been considered at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, I have listened carefully to the views of the Länder and I can support them in part. Whoever pays the bill will accept it. That is also true in economic law. In this case, the federal government pays the bill, so it accepts part of it. That is also the position I would defend should I be part of one of the governments of the Länder. After all, they have a point. It is Belgium, therefore, the federal government, that is a Member State of the European Union. Until further notice, therefore, Flanders and Wallonia are not separate Member States, which we would, of course, like to see. Belgium has a direct link with Europe, so the federal level must guarantee these own resources. You did mention a date, July 13th. Let us hope that approaching 21 July will generate national feelings for some of your negotiating partners in order to reach a national agreement on plastic taxes and all other undivided invoices. However, I am afraid of it. We will therefore continue to follow up this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u22	Despite consultations, there is still agreement on the allocation of the €740 million in RIZIV costs for corona, the third measure in the Monitoring Committee report. That's 0.7 billion in RIZIV costs for corona, a substantial amount. What is your position on this? Is there a deal yet? What is the possible budgetary impact of the RIZIV costs, if any, on the balance of social security claims and the dotation of the balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u23	The negotiations are also ongoing on this subject. During the conclave, the government decided to raise the corona commission by EUR 825 million. As a result, in the general explanatory memorandum, the EUR 740 million was removed from the Monitoring Committee's report as an undivided measure at the level of the joint administration. In other words, the costs have been taken into account at entity I level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u24	That is very clear. In the meantime, there is a solution for that part, amounting to EUR 740 million: the federal government is responsible for it. The bill will, in that respect, be paid by the federal government. The discussion and objection of the Länder are in this case recognised by the federal government. The impact on the balance of payments of social security is likely to be fully taken into account by social security and, if necessary, will be adjusted to take account of the balance at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u25	My next question concerns an undivided invoice. Meanwhile, one has fallen away, the one from the RIZIV costs. The Flemish Government demands that the miscalculation of the sixth state reform be corrected. The government of the Flemish Minister for the Budget estimates that it is about 500 million euros, although the exact calculation still has to be done according to De Standaard. According to the Walloon Minister for the Budget, the various Länder together dispute an amount of EUR 489 million. Can you confirm the amounts quoted? How much does each state demand back from the federal level? The cabinet of the Flemish Minister for the Budget indicates that the federal government recognises the miscalculation. Is that right? Can you confirm that you acknowledge that miscalculation? What is the federal government's position on the alleged miscalculation? What are the views of the Länder? In the meantime, has an agreement been reached? What is its impact on entity I and entity II's exposure balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u26	Mr Vermeersch, I have to refer to my answer to your oral question 55027391C. At the moment, I can neither confirm nor deny the amounts. The information was requested from the services of the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the estimates of contributions to the communities and regions under the Special Financing Act. The question was already discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Finance and Budget on 17 March. At that inter-ministerial conference, a number of outstanding budgetary issues between the federal government and the regions and communities were discussed as a third item on the agenda. In addition to the plastic contribution, the cost of the prevention campaign related to corona and the RRF, the final point was also discussed the cash consequences of the transfer of RIZIV powers. Pending a final commitment of the amount by the ministers concerned, no federal position has yet been adopted. The aim is to discuss a number of pending interfederal dossiers with significant budgetary impact at the next meeting of the Consultation Committee, scheduled for 13 July. Since the final amount has not yet been determined and no agreement has yet been reached on its distribution, it is not possible to estimate the budgetary impact on the claims balance of the entities concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, we await the outcome after July 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, behind the scenes we are discussing billions of euros between the various governments. From the final amount of the European Recovery Fund of EUR 750 billion, I believe that this amount has now risen to around EUR 800 billion, Belgium would initially receive EUR 5.9 billion for all kinds of so-called long-term investments, but because Belgium ultimately operated differently than expected on a number of parameters, we will eventually get EUR 1.4 billion less. However, there is a problem: the EUR 5.9 billion was already distributed to the Länder in an internal discussion after a lot of twilight. The question is who will pay that difference of EUR 1.4 billion. There's a Flemish song about "Who's gonna pay for that, who's got so much money?" I will not sing, of course, but the question certainly arises. The Flemish and federal governments already included a commission in their budget to bear their share of the EUR 1.4 billion deficit to implement the plans themselves, but Wallonia and the French Community clearly say no. Elio Di Rupo, the Walloon Prime Minister, wants the deficit to be distributed according to the European parameters, which he believed would be more favourable to Wallonia. So he calls for a so-called federal solidarity. Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm definitively the amount of EUR 1.4 billion? I understand that you had to provide Eurostat with figures on 8 June, so the amount should be clear in the meantime. Which entity will ultimately take on less revenue? How will less revenue be distributed among the different entities? Is that proportionate or by any other method? What procedure will be followed or has been followed? Can the federal government state its position on this? The Walloon Government is calling for federal solidarity, as it is called, and wants the federal government to bear the less revenue that Wallonia has to collect. Do you think that demand for federal solidarity is justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u29	Mr Vermeersch, at the moment there is no overview of the data provided by the national statistical institutions to Eurostat on 8 June 2022. In order to make the calculation, not only the figures of Belgium but also the figures of the other Member States are needed. Normally, on 30 June 2022, in two days' time, we will obtain the final calculation of the amounts. My administration has repeated the previous calculations on the basis of the figures published by the European Commission in the spring forecast. The result was comparable to the previously published figure of €1.35 billion. The decision on the way in which less revenue will be distributed among the different entities is to be taken by the Consultation Committee. That will take place as soon as the final amount is known.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u30	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I note that we will be clear in two days. You expect that this will indeed be less revenue of about 1.35 or 1.4 billion euros. There is absolutely no clarity about the distribution and another position has been adopted. Nor do you comment on the Walloon demand for solidarity. I would like to send you a clear message for the negotiations from a Flemish perspective. Given that Flanders is under-involved in the resources of the European Recovery Fund, please be sure to check that there is already a significant transfer of wealth from Flanders to Wallonia today and that Wallonia's financial situation is particularly bad, I would nevertheless call for everyone to pay and stand up for it. This proportionality is the least we could expect from a Flemish perspective. I wish you every success and good negotiating spirit in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u31	Mr Vermeersch, as I indicated in my reply to your question on the government deficit, it is extremely important for me to effectively implement the employment deal and pension reform in order to prevent the budget deficit from falling. Of course, these reforms are still possible during this legislature. As you have undoubtedly read in the press, it is the intention to make a decision on this in the weeks and months to come. I have repeatedly said that when we look at what amounts we are talking about when it comes to the budget deficit, our debt rising, it will not be by making small budgetary efforts here and there in the margins that we will achieve these amounts. Then it will depend on such major reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am very close to watching all your interviews and have also listened carefully to your answer. Above all, I notice that you are always talking about the employment deal and pension reform, but you are wisely silent about one major reform, namely fiscal reform. On fiscal reform, some plans have already been leaked and they are being torpedoed from two sides. The latest leak was torpedoed from the PS, but also from the MR. Next week is a study day, which we will probably all be attending, on fiscal reform, but beyond a study day and a possible blueprint it may not happen in this government. Due to the international context, for which I refer, among other things, to the increasing spreads, we must ensure that we do not get the knife kicked in under international pressure to carry out tough reorganisations. That is a very high risk. In this context, I heard reports from the National Bank last week in the Finance Committee and yesterday from the Debt Agency. Those messages just keep getting more negative. I also fear that we will face an unprecedented economic crisis in the autumn, hopefully not, but the indicators are all red. A country like Belgium with a derailed budget will soon come into international sight. This is not happening for the time being, because our spread is not so bad compared to Germany, but in Italy the situation is getting worse and it is only a matter of time before our country comes into sight. If we have to reform while the international community is watching, it will be particularly painful for a large part of the population. That is a scenario we must try to avoid with man and power. Let us hope that the coming months do not evolve in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, rising energy prices damage the Belgian economy 1.8 billion euros a month, as the National Bank calculated at the end of 2021. Meanwhile, the situation has gotten a lot worse. In the long term, therefore, there is a risk of an inflationary spiral whereby automatic indexation increases the burden of wages and increases in interest rates can cap the budget. That's what the Chief of Politics put in De Standaard. The governor of the National Bank warned earlier that if we do not provide buffers, we will be in a Greek scenario. Recently, before the expert group's report arrived, he also made a clear warning. He effectively referred to the fact that we are going to have room, that the time of free money is over and that these interests can rise rapidly under international pressure. There is, however, nothing in the budget of any buffer, quite the contrary. The budgetary parameters are currently blood red. Madam Secretary of State, how do you intend to build the necessary buffers? What buffers do you consider necessary to deal with future crises? I am thinking, for example, of a severe recession in the autumn. Which buffers do you consider necessary? Do you still consider it possible to build buffers during this legislature and with this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u34	Mr Vermeersch, we have already discussed this issue extensively during budgetary control. The plea of the governor of the National Bank, to which you refer, dates back to the end of last year. Meanwhile, the geopolitical and economic situation has changed radically. However, I fully agree with the fact that fiscal policy must be anti-cyclical. If things go well, buffers must be built that can be used if things are to go down. The fact that fiscal policy must depend on the economic situation is reflected in the European budgetary framework which is applicable under normal circumstances. This is also the basis for this government's dynamic fiscal policy. In addition to a firm effort, a variable effort depends on economic growth. In the Belgian context, as far as possible, the government deficit and, as a function of this, the level of debt should be reduced. However, this will have to be determined from one year to the next in the light of the economic situation. So I fully agree with the governor of the National Bank who says that once the crisis is over, an additional effort can be made to reduce the deficit. In other words, the results of higher growth can be used for this purpose. This is also in line with the European Commission's recommendations. However, we will have to evaluate the economic situation in the context of the budget for 2023. At a time when the European Commission is proposing to extend the application of the escape clause for another year because of the economic situation, it is difficult to speak of good times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to make a few points in my reply in order to make some urgent savings. We said during the budget debate, and we have been criticised by other parties for this, that we are also thinking about savings as well as reform. There can certainly be savings. Think of the debate in plenary on development cooperation. In these times of crisis, we must have the courage to think about using resources first and foremost for our own people. I am also thinking of the important amount of transfers that flow back and forth in this country. An important saving can also be achieved in the migration bill. I am also thinking of the figures for Fedasil, about which I have asked you a question recently. There are now even additional budgets flowing to Fedasil. I am also thinking of the Belgian political system, with the Senate, the Royal House, the provinces and the intercommunals. I think there's still a lot of fat on the soup that we're going to be saved away. Let us certainly put on the table in the coming months some of these sacred houses, which are not currently being discussed within the government, in order to get the situation in this country a little better in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u36	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question. Economic growth is stalling in more and more European countries and the prices of goods and services are rising. Economists and financial experts are increasingly talking about concepts such as "recession" and "tagflation."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u37	Mr Vermeersch, as I have already said in previous questions, I will not make any assessment of the economic situation of our country. I leave that to experts on the subject and they regularly publish reports. It is, moreover, on the basis of their estimates that the budget will eventually be drawn up. On 17 June, the Federal Planning Office published its macroeconomic outlook. A recession is not yet expected, but a marked slowdown in growth. On the basis of these macroeconomic parameters, the Monitoring Committee will assess the budgetary situation in an unchanged policy. In September, this report will be updated on the basis of the economic budget, which will be published by the Federal Planning Office at the beginning of September. I do not need to repeat that the report of the Monitoring Committee is the starting point for the budgetary conclave. On the basis of these reports, the government can therefore always decide whether or not to make a budgetary adjustment for the current year, if this proves necessary. Economic developments are therefore clearly being closely monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, that is a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u39	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the fact that there are voices within the government to keep the budget under review in June or July 2022, i.e. before the summer holidays, in the hope that there will be more clarity about the outcome of the war in Ukraine in the meantime. In 2021, we saw that you did not start the budget layout until after the summer. Of course, the services started much earlier, but the government did not really start negotiating until October 2021. As a result, of course, you have been following the facts about inflation, which was already clear before the summer. The government has now understood. The budget is included in the summer agreement, which was first proposed and which has already been negotiated in part. In any case, the intention was to start the 2023 budget before the summer. Madam Secretary of State, I'd like to be clear. Last week, the amendment of the 2022 budget was adopted in the Chamber. How do you see the progress? How many more budgetary adjustments do you think you need? When do you expect to be able to come to Parliament with a new budgetary adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u40	Mr Vermeersch, in 2021 and 2022, the government has already made use of the possibility provided for in the law to submit to Parliament several amending papers within one financial year. This is, of course, linked to the uncertain times in which we live. In 2021, there was the corona crisis. In 2022, we will face the war in Ukraine and the rapidly rising energy prices. Last week we approved the third adaptation sheet. The uncertainty about the economic situation and the geopolitical situation is high. It is therefore important to follow up closely on a number of issues, but this does not mean that the intention is to submit new adaptation sheets. It is difficult to look ahead in time and give an exact date or calendar for any subsequent adaptation sheets. I indicated to you last week that we will look at whether we will be submitting an adaptation paper in the autumn, in order to integrate the energy measures we will have decided on into our budget. It is also in line with expectations that the projects from the Restart and Transition Plan, submitted to the Council of Ministers after 1 April 2022, will also be included in the same adaptation sheet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The government has decided to extend a number of energy measures that have a significant impact on the budget. I understand that this will be amended in the autumn. You also mentioned the European Recovery Fund. Is that an adjustment to effectively integrate the EUR 1.35 billion, or is that separate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u42	No, that's another thing. This is about the EUR 1 billion investment plan. It's gonna be in the adaptation sheet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u43	That is very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, two further invoices were mentioned in the comments and comments of the Court of Auditors. Some non-tax revenue would not have been correctly estimated because there were no cooperation agreements between the different public entities on the distribution of revenues from the auction of CO2 emissions allowances and the sale of UMTS licences. Emissions allowances in the ETS would amount to EUR 430 million. Can you confirm that amount from the Court of Auditors? How is that amount distributed among the different Länder? What's the point of view? Is there a deal yet? What is the budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u45	Mr Vermeersch, on 10 June 2022, the undivided amount related to the trading period 2021-2030 was around EUR 533 million for the revenue for 2021 and around EUR 406 million for 2022. During the October 2021 budget negotiations, it was decided to register EUR 42.5 million of this as a federal receipt for climate-related expenditure. Negotiations on a new cooperation agreement burden-sharing for the period 2021-2030 between the federal level and the Regions are still ongoing. This agreement will have to regulate the distribution of income between entities. Budgetary allocation by entity is therefore not yet possible. Otherwise, I must refer you to the Minister for Climate Change, Mrs Khattabi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u46	I will certainly pass that on to my colleagues in the committee responsible, in order to follow that up. Only a ten percent, 42.5 million, was already registered as a federal receipt. This will also be followed up further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u47	Mr Vermeersch, on 21 June, BIPT announced that the main phase of the auction of the new 5G spectrum and the existing 2G and 3G radio spectrum was closed with a provisional yield of EUR 1.2 billion, which is 423 million higher than foreseen in the budget. This yield will be even higher given the 1,400 megahertz band to auction. In ESA terms, this yield should be spread over the duration of the rights, i.e. 20 years. For the year 2022, a revenue of EUR 12 million was entered in the budget format, taking into account the time of the auction and assumptions as to the distribution of revenues between the communities and the federal government and the total revenue of the one-off levy. From the year 2023, the proceeds were subscribed to the amount of 31 million euros. For the negotiations on the distribution of revenues between the federal government and the communities, I must refer you to Minister De Sutter, responsible for telecommunications.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u48	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply, which we will pass on to the competent colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament 55028577C Mr Loones's 55028639C were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u50	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u51	Mr Vermeersch, of course the economic outlook is not good and I, like you, am extremely concerned about the impact on our economy and our citizens. However, we must also be honest, in the current circumstances, the coffee cock will continue to see how the war is going to go and what the impact is on energy prices and inflation. The recent estimates all indicate that the economy is slowing down. However, to what extent this will happen remains a question mark. The recent economic forecasts are moving in different directions. The Spring 2022 Economic Forecast estimates a growth of 2 % for 2022 and 1.8 % for 2023. At the beginning of June, the OECD forecasted an economic growth of 2.4 % and 1% respectively. The Planning Office is based on 2.6 % and 1.3 % and the National Bank is based on 2.4 % and 1.5 %. With regard to the target of a budget deficit of 3% in the Stability Programme submitted to the European Commission at the end of April, it was still assumed that an entity I would have a deficit of 2,5 % in nominal balance for 2024 and a nominal deficit of 3,4 % for joint government. That budgetary objective would be achieved with average economic growth over the period 2022-2024 of about 2%. However, an annual additional variable effort of 0.2 % of gross domestic product in entity I and a similar annual effort of 0.07 % in entity II were taken into account. For me, this objective remains the ambition. On 14 July, the Monitoring Committee will publish its report on the state of our country's budget for this and the coming years. The report will be based, inter alia, on the macroeconomic parameters of the June Federal Planning Office. That report is the starting point for the government's conclave. I won't anticipate business. We in the government will weigh up the different needs and take the necessary measures that will benefit the citizens and support our economy. You will, of course, be informed of this in due course, as soon as it is decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u52	Thank you for the clear answer, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, my last question today is perhaps the most important and topical one, since it concerns facts that have taken place in committee after the discussion of the budget, namely the differences in the ten-year interest rates that are beginning to rise within the euro area. Not only does Italy see its interest rate differential increase with Germany, but countries such as Spain, Greece and Belgium also see a significant increase. The difference between the Italian and German ten-year interest rates has increased to 240 basis points when I wrote the question, the highest level in over two years. Some observers speak of a danger zone at an interest rate differential of 250 basis points. When that level was reached, the ECB met in an emergency session, as questions start to arise about the sustainability of the high Italian government debt. Madam Secretary of State, do you share the view on the danger zone for Italy? I quote Pierre Wunsch, the governor of the National Bank of Belgium: "The government no longer has a single financial buffer to absorb another shock, for example a recession. At the same time, the period of free money is over. The public authorities must avoid doubts about the sustainability of Belgian public finances on the financial markets, as interest rates on Belgian government bonds are likely to rise rapidly." That is what the governor of the National Bank of Belgium said when presenting the six-monthly economic outlook. Do you share concerns about the sustainability of Belgian finances and the rise in interest rates on public debt? What actions do you consider necessary to avoid a new euro crisis? is in
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u54	Mr Vermeersch, the interest gap between Italian and German interest rates has indeed grown following the decision of the European Central Bank not to buy any more bonds. The European Central Bank has already responded to this evolution. It will show the necessary flexibility in the refinancing of the portfolio that has been built up in recent years, and thus possibly replacing German bonds which expire with Italian bonds. In doing so, it can specifically influence the interest rates of countries where interest rates would increase too much. I certainly share your concern about the situation, but I trust that the European Central Bank will take the right decisions in this regard. I also share your concern about the Belgian budget. I have repeatedly said that it is important to control the evolution of debt. In the meantime, preparations for the 2023 budget have begun. They will be completed after the holiday. In this context, too, I keep repeating my concerns. We must try to keep debt manageable. I am also counting on good international cooperation to avoid a euro crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic831x.u55	Madam Secretary of State, I see that in the meantime the interest rate increase is 210 basis points. After the ECB's intervention, there has been some calmness. You are touching an important political issue in your answer. I think that you are very quick to understand that the ECB will no longer buy additional bonds, but will no longer renew bonds from Germany, for example, and will instead fill its balance sheet with bonds from Italy or Greece, and perhaps also Belgium. All these countries are now coming into the eye of the storm. This is, of course, an important political decision, which is under attack from a number of Member States. I understand from the ease with which you bring this communication, that you do not really share the view of the more resource-efficient countries and that you are more in line with the countries of southern Europe, the Club Med countries, which benefit greatly from the ECB buying up their bonds. Belgium may also need this support. In that sense, I can read your answer as a political answer. You are not in line with the strict Member States that are reluctant to decide that the European Central Bank is filling its balance sheet with bonds from countries that do not have their budgets in order. It's been noted. Hopefully this will not be prosecuted too often and the spreads will remain under control. This is a situation which we will certainly follow in the coming months. Thank you for your answer.
