ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u2	Colleagues, on Sunday 20 March 2022, at dawn, six people lost their lives in Strépy-Bracquegnies and ten people were seriously injured during a pick-up of girls during the carnival. Dozens of others have been injured. The victims and accompanying persons are deeply shocked. A crazy car hit the group of girls and accompanyers at high speed. This accident abruptly ended the party that everyone was looking forward to. After a period of sad and uncertain health crisis that seemed endless, the inhabitants of Strépy-Bracquegnies could finally celebrate their traditional carnival, have fun, party, laugh. Popular joy and collective joy suddenly gave way to the deepest horror and disarray. The folklore of a carnival is an opportunity for carelessness, but this tragic event is pressing us with the nose on the harsh reality and vulnerability of life. Our thoughts go out to the victims, the families affected and the immediate vicinity, but also to the police and emergency services that have had to face an extremely difficult situation. We are deeply saddened by the tragedy that the municipality of La Louvière and the Centre region are now facing. When fate strikes as unjustly in a community as close as the folklore groups, in which everyone knows everyone, one is very upset and the grief is immense. Colleagues, the cruel and blind fate has broken many lives on this tragic day of March 20 that only asked to participate – at last! – at the first carnival, after this long period of confinement. Our institution also shares the pain of two members of its staff, whose son is among the victims and is still fighting in the hospital today. In memory of the victims of this tragedy, we will observe a minute of silence in a few moments. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I addressed our heartfelt condolences to the communal authorities of the city of La Louvière.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u3	Madam President, beste coluga's, ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday in Strépy-Bracquegnies, what was to be a moment of joy found after two years of absence turned into drama. The horror occurred and bereaved too many families. We all know the symbolic and sentimental importance of carnivals and their preparations for many parts of our country, especially for the Central Region. This attachment adds to grief and misunderstanding in the hearts of families as well as in ours. The emotion is alive, and we must channel it to transform it into resilience in the face of this unjust misfortune. Beyond the emotion that overwhelms us, this drama prompts us to ask ourselves about the conditions of living together and the organization of the city, about the rules that we establish together, democratically, and that we must all respect. This question is our moral duty to all the families and relatives of the victims. I would like to express our deepest regret and sympathy on behalf of the government to the families and loved ones of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u4	Colleagues, commemorations are important because they not only give us the opportunity to honour the victims, in all their diversity, but also because they remind us of the tragic consequences of hatred, extremism and fundamentalism. Horror and barbarity. These are the two words that apply to the chilling day of March 22, 2016, during which we all attended, powerless, unbelievingly overbidding in terror. That day is engraved in our memory. On 22 March 2016, three coordinated suicide attacks took place, at 07.58 a.m. and at 09.11 a.m., two at Zaventem Airport and one at Maalbeek Metro Station. 32 women and men died and 340 were injured. Soon, responsibility for the attacks was claimed by the Islamic State. That day, public life in our country came to a collective standstill. We all remember the oppressive and deadly silence in the streets of Brussels, and the presence of soldiers in different places. But we also remember all the messages of support for the victims, messages of incomprehension, distress, anger, but also the call for peace on the Brussels Stock Exchange. We remember the burning candles, the flowers that people had laid down and the chalk drawings on the ground. These attacks were the bloodiest attack in Belgium since World War II. The wave of emotions is still intense. Families were torn apart, lives broken forever. These women and men were nurses, lawyers, teachers, musicians, computer scientists, engineers, students,... The victims were of American, Mexican, Dutch, Indian, Congolese, Swedish, Italian, Polish nationality,... They went to work, went to study or started a trip abroad. The emptiness that they leave can never be filled. The youngest, Leopold Hecht, was 20 years old and went by metro to his law courses at Saint-Louis University. The oldest, 79-year-old André Adam, Honorary Ambassador of Belgium, had deposited his wife at the airport, where she had to embark for the United States with their daughter. Our thoughts also go out to the wounded who survived the attacks and carry with them the painful physical and mental scars of that murderous day forever. Countless families remain orphaned, many children must now grow up missing a loved one who is no longer there. In 2022, terror is still a threat to which we must be alert. It is our duty as democrats to continue to work for a safer world. Of course, we must remain vigilant, but we must never be guided by fear and hatred. We must move forward, and we must listen to our hearts, but also to our minds. As the anonymous author of a message posted in the Maelbeek metro station so well expresses in the aftermath of the attacks: "Wars are born in the minds of men and it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be raised". A quote more current than ever. I would also like to express our deep gratitude to all those who have helped the victims and those who are still accompanying them on a daily basis. Six years have passed since those attacks. Words are always clumsy when fate strikes so brutally. May I ask you to observe a few moments of recollection in memory of those who have been broke by fanatical blindness and murderous madness, after hearing the word of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, six years ago, the unimaginable happened. At two strategic locations in our capital, in the heart of Europe, we were the victims of terrorism. On March 22, 2016, cowardice and cruelty destroyed dozens of human lives. These human lives are all mothers, dads, brothers, sisters, friends or colleagues who have been abducted from their loved ones. These are life paths that have been brutally broken or, for survivors, traumatized forever. We can't bring back the dead. Those who survived will have to live with the consequences. The attacks put an end to their carefree way of life. We all lost that carefree way of life on March 22, 2016. We will never forget the images and the horror that struck us. However, we can and must learn from these attacks, prepare a better world, here and elsewhere, work tirelessly, millimetres per millimetre, to build a soothing and safe society, to ensure that everyone feels and is respected in his or her physical and moral integrity and convictions. It is only under these conditions, and thanks to the efforts of all, that we can continue to move towards peace. The Chamber observed a minute of silence. The Chamber shall observe a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u6	Colleagues, this morning I took part in a trade union action against expensive living and against unbearable prices for workers. The prices at the pump today are priceless, namely 90 euros for a full tank. I wanted to ask the Minister a question. Today, however, there is a ban on asking that question. I wanted to ask the minister the question, and he and Parliament forbid me. It's really amazing! The reason I'm given – listen carefully! – is that the minister has already come yesterday. So, the workers go to work every day, but the minister must not come today, because he came yesterday! How do you explain that to the workers? I find that unacceptable. There was a topical issue today, namely a trade union action with hundreds of militants, with thousands of militants on the ground, in Brussels and in Liège. All these trade unionists make it clear that they are tired of this government policy that does nothing about excise duties. Of course, it granted a reduction in excise duties of 17.5 cents last week. But it is already cancelled by the price increase. So there's an up-to-date fact. There's union action. And what's my answer? I'm told it's not a current event! I find this fundamentally unfair! I find it unacceptable that I should not ask my question. I'm finally gonna talk here. I have the right to speak in Parliament, Madam President. I have tabled a motion, colleagues. Under Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure... [[Brouhahaha]] I'm gonna keep talking because people are tired of paying so much for their gas. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u7	I'm not allowed to talk! That's amazing! You liberals don't care! In the pocket!. You make enough money. It's easy for liberals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u8	Monsieur Hedebouw!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u9	I don't accept censorship. I want to be able to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u10	Mr Hedebouw, I'm asking you for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u11	I have a point of order that I'm going to read.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u12	Mr Hedebouw, may I first speak? The role of the President is, in particular, to grant you the floor or to withdraw you, if necessary. I see there's been some brouhaha. Some members therefore reacted. You can read your motion. But I think it is necessary to correct what you have just said. You have tabled a question entitled:De prijzen aan de pomp. The title of your oral question is 'Prices at the pump'. This was discussed yesterday in the Committee on Finance. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber clearly state in Rule 127 that 'no oral questions on the same subject may be put in committee and in plenum during the same week'. Those are the Rules of Procedure. Mr Hedebouw, if you had submitted a question about the demonstration, the situation would have been completely different, but your question is: 'Prices at the pump'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u13	Madam Chair, we had the chamber on the phone. Of course, we said that the subject of the current issue was trade union action. The question is very important for a socialist president. I have written evidence that the minister invoked the fact that union action was already known to say that it was not relevant. What's happening now is going to hurt the pseudo-left very badly. I will read the point of order: "Pursuant to rule 54 of the Rules of the House, any member of the House may, in the course of the debate, request the floor in connection with the proceedings of the House on a point of order." That's what I gave you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u14	Mr Hedebouw, I am interrupting you because there is no debate! There is no debate! So you no longer have the word! You have a debate, there is no debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u16	Mr Hedebouw, Rule 54 does not prevail over Rule 127, which prevents you from asking a question if the subject was raised the previous day in committee. That's the rules!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u17	Madam President, prices at the pump are really priceless. Our car is the milk cow of the state treasury. There is, by the way, a new element. This night, the German Government did what this federal government failed to do, namely to reduce excise duties to the European minimum. That was decided this night at the first night sitting of the German Government. That is therefore an effective new element. The Flemish Interest has itself tabled a legislative proposal on this matter in Parliament and we would like to question the Minister. We would like to ask the Minister why this government has not reduced excise duties to the European minimum, why this government has not succeeded. The prices are priceless. We want to ask this question as representatives of the people, we have that right and there is also a new element. We demand that we be able to ask our question and that the Minister of Finance be called to Parliament so that we can question him about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I chaired the Finance Committee yesterday. We started the sitting with a topical debate on increased energy prices. Ten questions were on the agenda, including Mr Hedebouw's third question on the explosion of gas, electricity, fuel oil and fuel prices. Mr Hedebouw, you were not there! You didn't show up and then you came here to be a hypocrite!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u19	Madam President, I shall mention two facts. The first is that my comrade, Marco Van Hees, was present in committee yesterday and that there was no debate on trade union action. I will not turn around too much because I see the political maneuvers, etc. I raise a point of order and ask for a vote on a change by sitting, which actually allows me to put the question. Everyone's free to vote. For me, a union fight this morning is a new, politically new fact that allows us to ask the question. The vote is there and I shall put my point of order to the Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u20	Madam President, I wonder how this Parliament works. It has been agreed - I am among those who have been in this Parliament for a number of years - that there is no motion that is tabled during the current time issue. It has always been so. Here we see that the PTB, I hope without your complicity, is trying to review how this Parliament works. It confuses Parliament with its people's houses where everything is obviously decided by the top. But Mr Hedebouw does not have to review the way this Parliament works at his own discretion. We are not in the Bolshevik dictatorship here in this Parliament. Parliamentary democracy must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I will close the debate. Rule 54 makes it clear that "any member of the House may, in the course of a debate" - in the course of a debate! - "to ask for the floor in connection with the proceedings of the House on a point of order." We are not here in a debate! We will begin the topical issues. It is not enough to take the floor to consider that there is a debate, by Mr Hedebouw's will in this Parliament! No, there are rules, we have a functioning, it's not new, it's clearly set out in the Rules, and rule 127 is just as well. If you wanted to avoid, both Mr Hedebouw and Mr Vermeersch, any concern, you should have called your questions "The manifestation of this day", but that is not the case. You have chosen as the title of your questions "pump prices", which was discussed in committee yesterday, as Mr Joris Vandenbroucke explained, and I close the incident here. We turn to the oral questions. Before giving the floor to Mrs Pas, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to pay tribute to the presence in our forums, first of all, of the classes of young people who come to admire democracy in our country. In addition, remember: last July, the House adopted a resolution to recognize and prosecute the crimes of genocide against the Yezidis and to assist them. Yesterday, Mr. Ali Ilyas, Baba Sheikh, spiritual leader of the Yezidis, took part in a symposium held in the Chamber on genocide. I would therefore like today to welcome the presence in our gallery of the delegation that is currently in our country. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u22	Minister, six years ago, the Islamic terrorist attacks killed 32 people and injured hundreds of them, including Sebastien Bellin, a former basketball international. He gave a very catchy testimony on the radio last week. He said he was carrying his handicap for the rest of his life and complained that he had been unable to count on the Belgian government for the past six years. He called the Belgian state terrible. Horrific it sounded. It's downright embarrassing to have to hear that statement from a victim. It's unworthy of a civilization. Many victims received a lower financial compensation than what was agreed. Some of us haven't even gotten anything yet. Flemish Interest has repeatedly advocated the creation of a guarantee fund. That's faster. The amounts paid are then recovered afterwards from the insurance companies and this causes much less administrative difficulties for the victims. Why wasn't that done? Instead of making plans with the government to repatriate IS terrorists, what are your plans to respond to the questions of clarity about the method of calculation of the fees and to a rapid handling of all the problem files of the Life4Brussels victims' association? In October, the major assistance process on the attacks will begin. Where are the promised legislative interventions to make that process as manageable as possible? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u23	We just remembered the victims of terror here. I had the opportunity yesterday to have another conversation with some of the victims. The conclusion is always the same. That was the case in the past and it is the case again today. We need to take care of those people. In fact, they can only think of one thing: psychic and physical recovery. When we take care of things, we think of the financial care. At the end of 2017, we found in the final report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry that there would be a guarantee fund. Back then, Minister Kris Peeters started the study there. But since the fall of the government in 2018, we haven't heard a word about it, except last year, when it was said that the guarantee fund was no longer in question. Last week, however, a solution was found: future victims of terror would still be given their money. The victims of Zaventem and Maalbeek have nothing to do with that. As far as care is concerned, there is another yard, namely that of mental care. The N-VA has taken an initiative to correct the process and thus work with a professional jury instead of a people's jury. After all, we don't want that wound re-painted. The 30,000 questions of guilt will have to be asked again. The N-VA still pleads for the professional jury. When it comes to care, we also think of administrative care. I was able to speak with the three team coaches yesterday and I was deeply impressed by their drive, their preparation, their will to succeed for the victims. However, there are 1,500 victims, first responders and family, friends and acquaintances who have lost loved ones. Three coaches for 1,500 victims is not enough. What else does the government have in store for our victims of terror?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u24	Madam President, Mrs Pas, Mr Metsu, I would like to express my condolences to the victims of the terrible attacks in and around Brussels on 22 March 2016. In substance, at the end of 2021, insurers paid EUR 58.8 million to the victims of the attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek, of which nearly EUR 50 million was for physical and moral damage. A total of 1,422 victims reported damages. I too am aware that compensation for victims of attacks should be improved. Unfortunately, that proved to be clear after the attacks six years ago. As Minister of Economy, I am doing everything in my power to do so. Since the start of the government, I have taken over that important file together with Secretary of State Eva De Bleeker, with the cooperation of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. We have prepared a preliminary draft law to improve the mentoring and compensation of victims of terror. I agree that this important dossier should be completed as soon as possible. In the meantime, numerous meetings were held with the various victim organisations and Assuralia. The preliminary draft law was drawn up from the point of view of the victims and takes the utmost account of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. Improving the protection of victims of terrorism, which is the aim of the text, is firstly to ensure adequate and correct compensation for victims. For the purpose of determining the compensation, the common law will apply in order to allow for full compensation for the damage. All situations will be covered for any recognised terrorist act, regardless of the means used. Secondly, the procedure for obtaining compensation is simplified and the compensation system speeded up. There will be a unique medical expertise procedure for terrorist acts to prevent victims from having to undergo multiple medical assessments as a result of the intervention of different parties. This unique expertise will be paid for by the insurers, as requested by the victim organisations. Thirdly, a strong solidarity mechanism is the starting point of the new law. Victims must be compensated for their physical injuries at 100%, regardless of whether they are insured or not. The insurance sector and the State will therefore jointly finance the compensation. As a result of the new solidarity mechanism, the current intervention ceilings will be substantially increased. We will present the reform to the Council of Ministers at the latest after the Easter holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for explaining the proposal before us. However, this is too little and too late for the victims of terrorism. It is unacceptable that six years after these horrific Islamic terrorist attacks, so many victims have still not received proper financial compensation. That doesn't show respect for the victims. In the meantime, the current government is making plans to bring back IS terrorists, and it is spitting the victims in the face again. You may keep quiet for many minutes. That way of working is unworthy of a civilized country. Caesar was right when he said that the Belgians were the bravest because they were furthest from civilization. There hasn't been a change of hair.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u26	Minister, we are winning the fight against terror by certainly being there for the victims of that terror. That should be a core task. The current government has a small fortune auction for recovering those IS terrorists. We have had to accept it, and we have effectively lost that debate. However, we have also noticed in recent years that a great deal is possible. In times of a covid pandemic, we did find funds to help people. In the Ukraine crisis, we are doing the impossible and we are doing it. Mr Minister, on behalf of the N-VA, I would like to ask the current government to make this additional effort for the victims of the terrorist attacks in Maalbeek and Zaventem on 22 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u27	Minister, last Sunday there was a shock wave in our country following the terrible accident in Strépy. It was therefore quite right that at the beginning of this session we expressed our condolences to the closest of the 37 injured and the 6 people who died there. However, every year there are more than 600 people in this country who will never come home because they are dying on the road. In addition to human suffering, the great tragedy is that many of these fatal accidents are avoidable. Our neighbouring countries prove that the high human toll on our traffic does not have to be there. With us this toll is so high because we deal too laxly with road pirates and people who get drunk again and again behind the wheel and drive far too fast. They don't realize they're playing Russian roulette with the lives of other road users. You said, Minister, that you no longer accept this laxity and that you want to deal with these persistent road offenders more ferociously. You have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The good news is that a solution is already in place. This solution has been in the law for 30 years. I'm talking about the driver's license with points. This is a system in which people who are more likely to go wrong are punished harder and finally removed from the road. That's what's needed. Almost half of the people convicted of a road crime do so again afterwards. We agreed in the coalition agreement that the number of road deaths should be reduced. When I hear you say that you want to deal with that, I hope you are the man who will finally ensure that the driving licence comes with points after 30 years. My question is therefore very simple. When are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u28	Gentlemen, I always feel some reluctance to take political action as a result of such a dramatic event as the Strépy accident. I think silence and compassion are appropriate at such a time. However, it is a good thing that we are explicitly putting road safety on the agenda here. Any reason for that is good. There are reasons every day and every week. There are 500 road deaths and almost 3,000 accidents with serious physical injuries a year. That's 3,500 people who carry permanent scars because of our road safety. Much progress has been made in recent years. There are fewer victims than 20 or 40 years ago, but the current numbers must also continue to encourage us to take action. We have made a great deal of progress with stricter penalties and stricter rules. I too believe that it is time to turn the ship around and work more in depth, focusing more on certain target groups, on repeaters, on traffic criminals. We need to take them more seriously. That might be smarter than what we're doing today. If one knows that 45% of all convicted persons appear before the police judge again, then these heavy fines and penalties seem to be too little impression. Then we have to make sure this changes. We need to see how we can change this. We need to look at how we can re-educate, how we can tackle the psychosocial problems of those drivers, how we can get them out of traffic if necessary. We have retabled our proposal for a driving licence with points, but any proposal to deal with it again (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u29	Madam President, Minister, this Sunday, in my village, we should have heard grelots, shouts of joy and noises of hoofs. We should have been singing "Misting Camps", we should have hunted winter and two years of covid crisis. No, Sunday, the horror struck. A car ran into the pick-up procession and killed and wounded. Fred, Laure, Vito, Michelina, Salvatore and Frédéric are gone. And then there were dozens of wounded, shocked people. You know, ladies and gentlemen, carnival in our house is in our DNA. We barely know how to walk that we're already going with our parents and neighbors. Today, I have a thought for all the victims, all the wounded and the families affected by this tragedy, but beyond pain, emotion and anger, I would also like to relay, Minister of Justice, the message of the families who, all of whom have called for calm and insisted that justice be allowed to do its work. Justice must be done quickly. The victims need to understand what happened. They need to be recognized, sanctions taken, sanctions up to date and effective to ensure that measures are envisaged to avoid such tragedies in the future. Minister, we really need to make safety on our roads and in our communities a priority. We must give ourselves all the means to achieve this, from training to sanction: how can we better fight against speed-absorbing drivers? How to avoid recidivism? How to sanction more effectively? When will the road safety prosecutor's office be set up? What priorities will be set by it and how can justice intervene, when people boast about driving at crazy speeds on social networks and who apologies for their offence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u30	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, there is and continues to be a group of people who feel that they can afford anything if they get behind the wheel of their car. Braggers brag about how fast their car goes and put it on social media. Macho behavior. Too much drinking and then getting behind the wheel. Looking for road risks. Such behavior, such culture has led to a tragic accident in Strépy on Sunday, with six dead and ten seriously injured. However, it is not an isolated case. Too much drinking and getting behind the wheel. 90 kilometers per hour in the built-up area. Every week, people die as a result of road accidents. And so it's time to make our policy more up-to-date. The figures indicate that one in three road accidents are caused by people who regularly commit an offence and that half of the people who commit a traffic offence do so again later, 30% of them within the year. Our policy needs to hold on to more. Traffic courses can play a role in this. An investigation by Vias states that when an offender takes a traffic course, the risk of a relapse decreases by 41 %. Minister, I questioned you two years ago about the usefulness of these courses and the need to register them more standard. You acknowledged that need at the time. In what way will this government follow recidivists more strictly and register traffic courses as standard in the approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u31	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in a quarter of a second, in Strépy-Bracquegnies, life has changed for Mario, for Michelina, for Salvatore, for Fred, for Laure, for Frédéric, but also for all those who were injured, some seriously, for all the Gilles and their community, for the entire Central region and a little bit also for all of us who were thinking with them. We have just paid tribute to them, but here I would like to associate myself with the pain of the families and assure all those who are physically injured and those who are injured in their hearts of my support. Justice will do its job, of course. At the same time, we must question ourselves politically because, basically, everything that has happened in Strépy-Bracquegnies, this horror, is linked to road safety and the responsibility of a few, a minority but a minority of drivers who are repeat offenders, a minority with totally unacceptable behaviour in terms of speed, chase races, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Thirty percent of Belgian motorists involved in an accident are repeat offenders. It's huge! So, no, it's not manly to drive like a cowboy, it's criminal! In the face of these recidivists, Minister, radical measures and the strongest sanctions are required. The government agreement referred to a structural approach for these recidivists, precisely. This does not seem to be part of your federal security plan. What is the situation, particularly in relation to the point permit? Shouldn't it be much more radical with the withdrawal of life permits and the definitive confiscation of vehicles? In terms of control (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u32	Madam President, Ministers, I cannot begin my speech without a word for the victims and their families, but also for the Central Region, for which carnival rhymes with reunion after the graying. This is a personal and collective tragedy, one of too many: 644 deaths on our roads in 2019, these are the figures. It was yesterday's debate, it is today's debate, it will probably be tomorrow's debate in order to find a way to lower those figures. Last November, you adopted the "All for Zero" plan to get zero dead on our roads by 2050. It's important. We must move on this path without dogma or blindness. In our country, we have a problematic relationship with cars and speed, as long as offences are filmed and posted on social networks, as long as we are riddled with ads for vehicles that are too powerful, too fast for our cities, our villages and our centres. We also have a problem with impunity, which is to have equipment in vehicles to avoid controls. However, the central problem is recidivism: 30 to 35% of those involved in accidents are repeat offenders, individuals who have already been punished and have already been deprived of a right to drive. There is a problem; there are also solutions. We know them, because the Vias Institute has mentioned them. Training and awareness-raising for repeat offenders would reduce the recidivism rate from 40 per cent to 50 per cent. My questions are therefore simple, ministers. What are you going to do about recidivism? When and how are you going to strengthen the controls on our roads? How will you fight against the culture of speed and the apology of offences?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. This Sunday's accident in Strépy-Bracquegnies has affected all of us. We are thinking with the victims, their families, their friends and the whole community that has been affected by the horror of these events. Without prejudging the ongoing judicial investigation, I strongly condemn the irresponsible behaviour behind the wheel which leads to the loss of control over a vehicle and to too many tragedies on our roads. Seeing that some make the deliberate choice not to respect the rules of common life on the road - respect for speed limits, not driving under influence - is unacceptable. Every death on the road is a victim of too many. Our country must make real progress in that regard. That is why our government has made the fight against road insecurity a priority. It is also for this reason that I, together with my colleagues, the Ministers of Justice and the Interior, have drawn up a federal plan to combat road insecurity. We want, Mrs. Fonck, to increase the probability of being controlled. According to the target set in the government agreement, one in three drivers will have to be checked each year. This represents 30% of drivers. This is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. However, we need to do even more to fight even more effectively on our roads. Together with my colleagues Van Quickenborne and Verlinden, I have committed myself in the Federal Road Safety Plan to act more effectively against that minority of drivers who systematically endanger the lives of others, in particular the most vulnerable, namely pedestrians and cyclists, by driving too fast, for example. We are working on this on the basis of a study by Vias. As you said, these repeat offenders are responsible for 35% of road accidents. They must be able to be identified, even if they are driving with a company car that does not belong to them, and must be subject to proper follow-up and action. In the face of the potentially very serious consequences of speed, an amicable agreement in the form of payment of a contravention is insufficient. Some pay their fines and leave immediately full gas. That is why we want to put in place this system of fight against recidivism, with the most appropriate answers to stop these drivers, those, even if it is more often those, who do not systematically comply with the Road Traffic Code. I am convinced that a more intensive follow-up and targeted training of recidivists is preferable with a view to a truly sustainable impact on behaviour. They must become aware of their wrongdoings by meeting road victims and thus face the physical and mental consequences of their irresponsible behaviour. Finally, against intolerable impunity, I plead that these crimes shared on social networks should be systematically investigated and punished by the police. A car is a way of moving! Let us never forget that, when used irresponsiblely, it can turn into a deadly device, and we can never accept it. Increased controls, effective identification of offenders, specific follow-up of repeat offenders, training for those who systematically do not comply with the rules of the Road Traffic Code and endanger others, the fight against speed apology on social networks, all these actions are being developed within the framework of the Federal Road Safety Plan. We must – and we want – make every effort to ensure a safer road for all users. That is my commitment and I can say that it is also the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me in turn to express my deepest condolences to the victims and relatives of the terrible tragedy that took place in Strépy-Bracquegnies. I would also like to say that the parquet does not leave anything to chance to dig that case to the bone, to find out exactly what happened. However, the government did not wait for that drama to take action, because, indeed, too many people are dying on the road. You cite the figure of 68 people killed on the Walloon motorways in 2019. In Flanders, there were 50 deaths. That is precisely why I set up this national road safety prosecutor's office, which we voted for here, and which was not supported by everyone in Parliament. We are recruiting people, and the aim of this prosecutor's office is to pursue a vigorous and uniform policy for all the territories of our country. After all, there is currently no uniform road safety policy. There are parquets in our country today that have tolerance margins of 36 kilometers per hour. It seems that road safety in our country depends on where it is located, one arrondissement allows this and the other arrondissement slightly different. That is incomprehensible and unacceptable. My objective is clear: those margins, which have existed in our country for decades, must be abolished, rather today than tomorrow. I call all the parquets, all the police chiefs and all the mayors to step down from that. In our country there is one parquet that does not use tolerance margins or quotas, namely the parquet of Limburg. That is where all traffic offences are systematically prosecuted. If they can, then everyone can, because it is those margins and quotas that lead to laxity, excessive speed and many deaths. Some people argue that this will lead to far more violations. That's right. There will be more work, but that is also why the government has decided to strengthen local police stations and police courts with 86 people. In the meantime, we've already got 78 people working on it, so we're out of excuses. Our aim, of course, is not to collect more fines but to get the speed down and reduce the number of victims. In November 2021, we launched a pilot project on seven motorways in our country where margins were reduced and quotas abolished. Today we see that speed has fallen significantly in those places. At the same time, however, we must not lose sight of other killers in circulation, such as drug use. Justice has tripled the number of salivary tests: from 36,000 salivary tests available in 2020 to 100,000 this year. And at the same time, we're going to tackle repeat offenders. But we won't do that by increasing the penalties. At the time, in 2018, Mr Geens and colleague Bellot increased the penalties, and rightly so. I think that if we want to get back at it, we have to do it with the right instruments. Mr Buyst referred to the study by VIAS. Indeed, it is very striking that in all those subject to such compulsory education, the recurrence decreases by 41%. The classic penalty or the classic prison sentence, which some judges indeed note is not being enforced, offers much less relief than the correct sanction. Mr Buyst, today every judge already has the opportunity to pronounce alternative penalties, which is known to the public prosecutors - but that possibility is not being used enough. We will certainly encourage that further. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting on all fronts, with the Ministers of Mobility and the Home Affairs. Why? That is what we do, because traffic crime is also crime, which deserves the same attention as all other forms of crime. We owe that to the parents of crashed children. We owe this to all the victims of road accidents and to all the survivors of the terrible traffic horror in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u35	Madam President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their answer, which is a sign of their determination, just as I thank the colleagues who also asked to tackle road safety. That's what's good for them. I also very much appreciate the initiatives announced and explained by the Ministers. We need to focus our arrows on the road pirates that keep screwing up over and over again. Thirty years ago it was already decided that we would do that with a credit card. This can be perfectly linked to, among other things, traffic courses, but we need to do it now. Twenty-two countries have already preceded us and proved that it works. The time for study and nuance is over. It is time to act and finally introduce that driving licence with points, including in Belgium, so that the scandalously high number of road deaths over 600 a year falls.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u36	Thank you, Ministers, for your commitment to turning road safety into a real work area. That's what it takes. In recent years, we have very often tightened legislation and increased fines. Every day more than 100 drivers are arrested because they drive more than 40 kilometres per hour too fast. Since half of all those who come before the police judge again commit offences that bring them back before the police judge, we need to work even more thoroughly and more focused. We need to be smarter, and we need to make a real commitment to training. We need to respond to the psychosocial aspect. We need to step up our efforts against those who are not able to take part in traffic and withdraw their driving licences. All these aspects are contained in the proposal on driving licences, which we have put on the table. Hopefully we can make that quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u37	Mr. Minister of Justice, thank you for your answers. Yes, there is a need to strengthen controls because, as we know, road safety figures are not good in Belgium. A zero-tolerance policy must be applied against drivers who endanger the lives of others and all forms of sanctions must be considered so that they are effective. If they are effective, they prevent recidivism. Sanctions are not the only response to road crime. Prevention, training and awareness-raising are also necessary tools. Efforts must be coordinated to combat speeding, driving alcohol, recidivism, speed apology and to raise awareness among citizens and motorists. While the road safety prosecutor's office will be able to work more effectively, the police courts need to be strengthened so that cases can be dealt with quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u38	Gentlemen, our paths must be made safer. You agree with that. Every week too many people die because there are drivers who like to look up the limits of their own ability and their car. Mr Van Quickenborne, the chances of getting caught must indeed increase. You have been fighting for the abolition of the margins of tolerance for some time now. That is a good thing. In addition, you are working for more staff for the Justice and Police Department so that the chance of getting caught can increase, which was and is included in the coalition agreement. With regard to relapse, the introduction of a traffic course is a real step forward. I therefore call for this standard to be incorporated into the approach. In short, let us use everything to make our roads safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u39	Ministers, thank you for your answers. I can share your intentions but, beyond intentions, it is obviously acts that we need, not in 2025 but now. The control of one in three drivers every year is far from being the case today. As far as repeat offenders are concerned, I can hear your willingness to move forward on training, but it is clear to me that we need to be much more radical in terms of the final withdrawal of permits and the definitive confiscation of vehicles. I mean, maybe a point to share here. One can only be questioned when one looks at the advertisements of the manufacturers, who really apologies for speed and speed records. I think that this is also an issue that we should be able to dig into here in this Parliament or that you should go deeper, in your capacity as Minister for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet. I don't think we're doing, overall, not enough and not fast enough against these criminals on the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u40	Ministers, thank you for your answers. There is therefore a 30-year strategy, intermediate objectives, but also actions to be taken immediately. When we talk about training, it's not slogan, Mrs. Fonck. According to the Vias Institute, this is the most relevant and effective measure to combat recidivism. That is the priority! There is a plan, we must implement it. Against all conservatism, we must act, because tomorrow, when the drama and emotion fall, voices will rise to defend the automobile and absolute freedom. We will also have to continue to be active in relation to this priority of road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u41	Prime Minister, Brussels is the world's diplomatic capital. That is even more so today than ever before. We have the NATO summit, we have the European summit, we have the G7 summit in parallel. They are marked by one word: unity. If we learn one thing from Russian aggression, if we remember one thing from this tragic episode in our history, then it is the strength of the European Union and the strength of NATO. You have tweeted: united, determined and united. That's us. You are the first Belgian Prime Minister to be able to go to a NATO summit with an ambitious budgetary growth path. Your government decided earlier, even before the Russian aggression, to contribute 1.54 % of GDP, and yesterday you added another 1 billion to meet the important needs that are beyond doubt. But more is needed in the coming years. All NATO Member States and all European Member States, except a few, have already indicated that they will increase their defence budgets drastically. Belgium is a small country, but it believes in European military integration. Belgium is a small country, but it works together with its neighbours and its partners. It is therefore particularly important that we remain in the peloton and that we continue this cooperation and not be out of play. Prime Minister, I have three specific questions for you. What did you say at the NATO Summit on behalf of our country? In what way will Belgium continue to strengthen its commitment? We must keep repeating it, because sometimes it is forgotten, investing in Defence is also investing in our economy. In what way will we continue to do so in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u42	Madam President, Prime Minister, posters in their own language, broadcasters with warnings for trafficking in human beings and exploitation, ready volunteers with the police to receive Ukrainian refugees arriving at stations, which are the hallmarks of effective reception of Ukrainian refugees. Train connections from the east are, of course, an important escape route for Ukrainian refugees. We therefore need a plan of action, because there are signs of exploitation and trafficking throughout Europe. The Dutch police are actively monitoring for a reason whether there is an increase in Ukrainian sex workers. Nor does the German police hunt for traffickers and exploiters in station neighborhoods for no reason. Prime Minister, are all Belgian services also in prime readiness? The number of notifications in Belgium remains very limited, but we know that refugees often remain under the radar. I see in my own city that refugees often get above the radar when the children are registered at school. For Forward, it is clear that there should be a central hotline for all potential cases of trafficking in human beings. In the short term, a number of things are still needed. Ukrainian refugees arriving at the station Brussels-Zuid have two thousand kilometres behind them, but Brussels-Zuid is five kilometres from the registration centre on the Heizel. That registration centre is up and running, I have just visited it and it seems to work very well, for which the government pays tribute. However, we must ensure that Ukrainian refugees get to the Heysel effectively and do not disappear under the radar on that short stretch. Will you take care of that? Do you support our proposal from a central hotline? Will you also advocate a European network of such hotlines at the EU summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u43	Mr Prime Minister, one month, one month, one month, one month, one month, of this absurd war, of this illegitimate war, of this crushing of Ukraine by Putin's Russia, which no longer seems to have any limits, no taboo in the use of force, in the use of violence against civilians, in respect of maternity, in respect of people who are caught in sieges, where they no longer have access to food, water, medicines, where they are bombarded constantly. A month in which our action, finally - today we must recognize it - is ineffective or insufficiently effective. We know that the sanctions taken are insufficiently effective, and we know that, unfortunately, military aid, the sending of weapons, may help to curb the offensive, but we do not allow it to be blocked. So, the question is, what's next? What are our red lines, how will we stop, in particular to finance this conflict, Putin's war? How are we going to stop these massive transfers of money from the European Union to Russia to finance this war, to finance these war crimes? We are - I am weighing my words, Prime Minister - we are complicit in these war crimes in Ukraine, through funding... Yes, Prime Minister, there are no other words! When we transfer 24 billion euros today – these are the estimates since the beginning of the war there – we must effectively stop these transfers of money, we must stop supplying gas and oil. In any case, we need red lines, Prime Minister. What are we waiting for? That there's chemical weapons bombardment? That there are biological weapons attacks, since they are now considered plausible, since protective equipment is provided there? What are we waiting for? What weapons remain to us economically and militarily to stop this savage war that endangers not only Ukraine (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u44	Madam President, Prime Minister, this is a particularly important day for you as you have to attend three summits. This morning, you took part in the NATO summit. You will therefore be able to report to Parliament on the common measures taken by the Alliance. They are extremely important. You are particularly involved in the Ukrainian conflict, which we thank you for. You have probably had discussions throughout the morning on the additional sanctions that need to be taken. You probably had an exchange of views on what we were able to develop in the Committee on External Relations and Defence, in the context of the debate on the resolution we voted for. You have probably also had exchanges on the investments that must be made at Alliance level, but also at Belgian level. Indeed, when you received yesterday the President of the United States, Jo Biden, on the tarmac, he knew that in terms of military spending, Belgium was at the bottom of the pack. She is one of the least invested countries in defence. Prime Minister, you can count on the Reform Movement. We're at your side. Our position is clear: we want a more ambitious budget path, faster in terms of defence investments, to move faster towards at least 2%, as the NATO Secretary-General has said recently. Prime Minister, how do you and your government plan to meet these imperatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u45	Prime Minister, you are exactly a little afraid of me, which is a great compliment to me. There are two kinds of people in the world. First of all, there are people who think first and then do. Secondly, there are people who just do something and even afterwards still refuse to think. The first attitude leads to a well-thought-out crisis policy, as in the Netherlands. The second leads to something that is at most a bit similar, like here in Belgium. After all, in the Netherlands, we have opted for the reception of Ukrainian refugees in centres and for the granting of a limited fixed amount per week, including for refugees who are received from citizens at home. The Dutch reasoning is that one must ensure that the living wages do not end up with exploiters and that refugees should not be dependent on the OCMW where they end up to determine exactly what they get. Both their own living wage clients and the new group of Ukrainian refugees must be treated properly. So the Netherlands has a fantastic thought-out policy. What is the situation in our country? The OMCWs are given guidelines that are still open to all possible interpretation. The policies on abuse, exploitation and violence are being implemented very slowly and there is a lack of follow-up, registration and guidance for people in very vulnerable situations. That'll be Belgium. Prime Minister, it is time for some of your ministers to think before they take action. Don't you think that's a little sneaky yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u46	Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is just a month since Russia invaded Ukraine with nothing to fear. What a terrible birthday. We're gonna re-assess that every day. The word children is limed on walls and rooftops, but rather attracts rockets rather than holding them off. We can't just stand by and watch Russia sow war and destruction today. The government doesn't either. I have heard from Minister Wilmès, among others, that we need more pressure and sanctions on the international forum. Today, however, we have to note that many countries do not follow this Western stance. Some African countries do not condemn Russia. They say it's a regime-friendly partner and they're asking why they should do that. We also see that Minister Lavrov has been in contact with BRICS countries, including India, South Africa and China, to discuss the economic consequences. That's impossible, isn't it? We also note that diamond centres in the United Arab Emirates and India are ready to take over the Antwerp diamond sector at the time of a European boycott of the Russian diamond sector. So we need sanctions that work. We can see that the ordinary Russians are suffering. We also see footage of Russians standing in line. On the other hand, we also see Putin perseveres in anger and cheerfully in a stadium stirs up his audience. Hence my specific questions. How are we going to make the sanctions work? How do we prevent other countries from breaking Russia? What position do we take today and later on on these sanctions? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u47	Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we see on television that the war in Ukraine is becoming more and more grim, bold and unscrupulous. Cities are surrounded and hundreds of thousands of people are trapped like rats. Heavy artillery is being deployed. Millions of Ukrainians are on the run and have crossed Ukrainian borders in search of security. Half of the Ukrainian children had to flee the violence of war and have been displaced. We see footage of the bombings on Marioepol and apartment buildings under fire. We have to stop this war. One of the only levers at our disposal is to exert severe economic pressure on Putin and Russia, so that the financing of the war machine stops. Europe must become independent of Russian gas, petroleum and uranium. However, there is no reason to spare any other source of income for Russia, namely the export of rough diamonds from Russia to Europe and hence to our country. Firstly, Prime Minister, Madam Minister, would you like to effectively prohibit the export of that Russian blood diamond to Europe and our country, so that funding dries out? Secondly, the UN forecasts say that 12 million Ukrainians will flee the violence of war. More humanitarian aid is needed. What will our country do about it? More humanitarian assistance is needed, not only in Ukraine itself, but also in the border countries such as Poland. I think that an extra effort in this area is more than appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u48	Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, thank you very much for being here. It's an important, even crucial day. There's a war in Europe. Thank you for taking the time to come here to answer a number of questions and, above all, to exchange views on where we are going. NATO has decided to deploy four battlegroups in four countries on the south-east flank, thus increasing the deterrent. Belgium will contribute a number of battalions. There's a battalion in Romania right now. What exactly was decided? What is our commitment? We sail there under NATO flag, under French command. Have any additional commitments been made? Then I would like to talk about the defence budget. NATO is asking for 2% investment. Belgium has been almost the worst student of the class for many years. There are 15 countries out of 30 that do not reach this 2 % by long. In the light of the announcements made in recent weeks, however, there are only four of us, namely Portugal, Canada, Luxembourg and Belgium. Portugal and Canada are now going to get that 2% faster. That leaves Belgium and Luxembourg. Luxembourg wants to invest but has no military. It's a small country, it has enough money but no staff. Belgium's in bad shape. We now have a STAR plan, an announcement to increase the budget, but that is not enough. We don't have any tanks at the moment, we don't have any anti-aircraft guns, and we don't have any drones. We've got toothy barracks. You've been to a barracks before, it's to cry. Mr Prime Minister, when are we going to get that 2% in order to finally escape this international disgrace?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u49	Prime Minister, after your answer, Ms. Wilmès will take over for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u50	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to interact with Parliament on an important day like today. However, since I have to attend the meeting of the European Council in just under 16 hours' time, Mrs Wilmes, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will receive your excellent replies. Today is an important day, because, as Mr Pillen points out, Brussels is playing its role again with a NATO summit, a G7 summit and a European Council meeting in one day. I think it is also a day when we show unity, determination and solidarity. Because we see more unity than ever. We also show this unity in our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We support the Ukrainian people in many different ways. We do this, for example, by organising military supplies, in which our country plays a role together with many other countries. We also show diplomatic solidarity by isolating Russia, and economically by weakening the Russian economy as much as possible. We also do so in our message to other countries. Today, if some countries, such as China, are considering continuing their relations with Russia, I think we need to be very clear. That would mean that they would continue to support Russia when that country does not respect international rules at all, does not respect the rules of engagement of war at all, does not comply at all with its commitments to, for example, refugees or other persons in need of humanitarian protection. That message was very clear to the rest of the world: we want other countries to ensure that there is no support whatsoever for Russia's terrible war. We are therefore also showing unity in the general condemnation of this completely pointless and particularly violent war that we are seeing today in Ukraine. Mr Francken and some others have asked questions about our budgetary path. Let us be clear: the debate on a budgetary trajectory is, of course, also about what to do with it. It's a discussion about input, but in my opinion it should also be about output. If there is no input, there can of course be no output. We're at a tipping point. When we look at the way NATO presents itself, we come from what can be called a strategy from forward deterrence to a strategy of forward defence. This means that NATO will play a very different role and that our country will be required to make a very different contribution. Since the start of the government, investment in defence has been on the rise, as demonstrated by the decision taken a month ago and yesterday. Honor who deserves credit, that trend was already set in motion by your party colleague, Mr Francken, the then Secretary of Defense, who had already set in motion a very ambitious investment path. I should also mention Mr Loones here. In a speech in Parliament one must be precise. In any case, this trend is also reflected in the decision taken a month ago to invest 10 billion extra. This additional effort of 10 billion includes investments in equipment, drones, rolling stock and cyber security. The government also took the additional decision yesterday to invest 1 billion over the next three years in order to improve operationality. We are active in two forums today. Let's get that straight. It may well be that a further effort and additional solidarity will be required from our country in the coming months. Then we have to make sure that we are ready, for example in the areas of ammunition, equipment of our soldiers, intelligence services and cybersecurity. The Madrid Summit will be important. In fact, the Madrid Summit must give substance to what NATO's new vision should ultimately be. How does the commitment to increase to 2% materialise? In what way do we ensure that additional investments are properly placed? Belgium has the vision that more investment, more integration, less fragmentation at European level and better alignment means. Investing more also means more economic return, not as a subcontractor who is eventually put up with a piece, but as a main contractor and therefore based on a real European economic strategy in the field of Defence. In addition, Belgium wants more return to our society, with investments in cybersecurity, for example. They must be able to serve the whole of society. The Madrid Summit will therefore be important, because it talks not only about input, but also about the form of output. We are particularly aware of the very fragile situation of refugees. Under the leadership of, among others, Minister of Justice, Mr Van Quickenborne, a task force, together with the centres against trafficking in human beings, with Justice and the Federal Office of the Interior, has long been providing sufficient alertness to the vulnerability of many refugees and is making this work of accessible communication. Together with the Länder, we are constructively examining how best to be attentive to possible problems and how best to communicate. For the organisation and the guidelines we work together with the Länder. I stress the word together, Mrs van Peel, because I sometimes have the impression that you are giving a selective reading of my statements. We create shelters together with the states. Flanders, for example, already has advanced plans in this area. Registration and central reception are carried out at the federal level. Is that all going to be perfect? No, at a moment of crisis, it is impossible to promise that everything is going perfectly. However, the fact that things are going much better with regard to the initial situation can be endorsed by those who went to look on the spot. They can testify that a great deal of effort has been made to organise reception in a very humane way. The OMCWs have indeed been given guidelines, because we assume that the OMCWs are best placed to assess the type of support a particular family needs. Mr Dallemagne, there is a constant element in today's discussion: NATO is not involved in this conflict and everyone wants to do everything to prevent it from becoming involved. The same logic applies to sanctions. The European Commission is taking sanctions to ensure that their impact is stronger on the Russian side than on ours. Some say that short-term oil sanctions should be taken, but the impact would be devastating for our economy! We are not at war with ourselves. When we think of sanctions, it makes sense that there is some selectivity and I find that these sanctions have a lot of effect. Mr De Vriendt, I have already said in the media that our country will not resist if the European Commission comes up with measures that have more impact on the Russian side than on our side and that can be agreed internationally. If we come up with a package that will allow us to ensure, in a credible way, that, for example, the wholesale of diamonds has an impact only on the Russian side, our country will certainly not oppose it. However, good agreements must be made with other countries involved. I decide. Russia's war is a war against everything we stand for. It is a war against democracy, against an open and free society, against a Europe that offers stability and security. It is a war that was only meant to divide us, to divide NATO. However, NATO is more united than ever. It is a war that was intended to weaken and to break up Europe, but we see the opposite: Europe is more united and stronger than ever. Our country should do the same. At a time of war on the European continent, our country must also ensure that it is stronger than ever. This means that we must show solidarity with the refugees and that we must help people in need, but that also means that we must be united in the way we look at the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, welcome. The world has fundamentally changed since 24 February. I believe, and I have heard that, that the vast majority of Members of Parliament have understood that very well. The Belgian Government has also understood this very well. There are not just words, there are clear deeds. Building on what we have done with the previous government, this government has taken the biggest step since the end of the Cold War. Let me warn you again: we will have to do more. If we want to continue European integration, the cooperation with our neighbouring countries that is so important to us, we will have to do even more. We owe this to our citizens who have a lot of questions. We owe that to our neighbors, to our allies. Peace is never free. Investing in our defense is our insurance policy. If anything happens, people are very happy to have paid their bills on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u52	Madam Secretary, I am very pleased with the Prime Minister's committed response. The government agreement talks about the fight against trafficking in human beings as an absolute policy priority. That must not only be on paper, it must also be in the facts. In the last ten years, however, there has been considerable cuts in the specialised services, both in the federal judicial police and in the inspection services. I am counting on this government to re-establish it so that we can get human trafficking back on the radar. I am also very pleased with the commitment of Minister Van Quickenborne, who has taken up Vooruit's proposal to establish a central contact point for trafficking in human beings. I hope that you and the Prime Minister will also respond to Vooruit's proposal at European level to promote a genuine network of centres against trafficking in human beings and to provide even better coordination. Belgium may also take a leading role in this. For example, we are real leaders in the fight against trafficking in human beings, including in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u53	Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, I understand the Prime Minister's answer on the major economic effects in the event of a halt in the supply of Russian hydrocarbons. I just wanted to put this red line debate at last. These are the two news we are talking about today: phosphorus bombs have reportedly been used on civilian populations and forced deportations of women and children from Donbass to remote areas of Russia. Putin doesn't have much different with Stalin on these issues. How much longer are we going to accept that? Under Belgian law, the financing of terrorism is a criminal offence. We are talking about state terror. This is how Putin's war is called today. How long are we going to accept massive funding for this state terror? That is the question we are being asked. This is an extremely serious issue, not only morally but also for the future of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u54	Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, we also have the opportunity to thank you for your commitment to this issue, which you have taken to heart with the Prime Minister. I want to thank the government for the entire response that was given to us today in the House on the various aspects that parliamentarians have addressed. I would like to return very briefly to the commitment of the day at the conclusion of the NATO summit. Today, we have decided to step up our efforts to fully honour our commitment to investment in defence. We have a goal that is simply set for us because the world has changed. Madrid was spoken of; Madrid was no farther than the Ukrainian border, just like Rome. We must stop putting the security effort on the shoulders of others and take on our rightful responsibility by moving towards this investment at the level of 2%.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u55	Madam Secretary, the situation is a bit weird, because the Prime Minister was just looking very terrified and now he's already walked away from me. I assume you'll pass on our replies. The Prime Minister has the gift of the word. He didn't say anything wrong. Something other than a unanimous applause for his answer was almost impossible. Yet his answer contains a lot of blah, blah, blah, blah. For example, he says that we are dealing with refugee reception together with the Communities. However, the reality is that the choice of living wage has caused the federal government to simply push down responsibility and that Flanders is happy to absorb it by building shelters. The fact remains, however, that what sounds social is not the same as being social. The massive distribution of living wages will cause a great deal of abuse, exploitation and problems. That'll tell the future itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u56	Madam President, I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister's reply. He spoke, among other things, about sanctions. Indeed, we must not let Putin's war crimes go unpunished. We must continue to exert pressure on his regime. There are two important conditions for sanctions. A first condition is that sanctions should be effective. I hope that today the European Council will discuss the loops, the gaps in sanctions. Madam Secretary, I'm glad you're nodding. Certain markets, banks and individuals are still slipping away from sanctions, so we need to increase their effectiveness. A second condition is that the sanctions should not hit us harder than Russia. That is why we need to talk to other countries, such as China, which does nothing economically or militaryly. We certainly need to take that second aspect with us. Only by exerting pressure together can we isolate Russia and stop that war violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u57	Madam President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answer. There's definitely a need for determination here. Our country, Europe and NATO have shown this clearly to this day. We must continue with this determination, not only in the military but also in the economic sphere. We must be determined. We must be united. We need to be proactive. It is really one of the few instruments we have to stop the war machine. Putin needs money. That's money-depriving every day. That's where we're gonna have to hit him. I'm really counting on the federal government to make proactive proposals and go along with them. For the sake of clarity, I do not see any hesitation, either with us or with other European countries. If something is really encouraging, it is that we are united. Europe is standing there with a voice. Putin might have hoped the opposite, but he guessed wrong. That'll be the only way to exert pressure...(microphone turned off)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u58	Si vis pacem, para bellum. Whoever wants peace must prepare for war. The Romans already knew. The ancient Greeks already knew. We have neglected it for far too long. We thought that peace was obvious and that we should no longer invest in our defence apparatus. We are now faced with a very difficult choice, because there is not much budgetary margin, but it will be necessary. We will have to invest in addition. That 2 % is not just a promise we ever made and we didn't really mean it. It's getting serious. We have tabled a resolution, for which we will also be calling for the urgency of achieving this 2% as soon as possible. Europe has become weak and vile. It's time to stand back. Only in times of weakness do autocrats and dictators come to power and attack us. We need to be strong again. We need to be resilient. That is the challenge for this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u59	Minister, a few months ago, we were all very angry, because two Ghent rapists only received a conditional sentence, even though they had filmed it. The burden of proof was therefore very clear. We were all wondering at that time what is going on with the Justice Department and whether they have no idea what effect and what impact a rape can have. Last week, that impact was made very clear by the demand for euthanasia from a woman who was brutally raped five years ago when she was just jogging in the park and has been struggling with the pain and misery of rape every day for five years. Her statement that she prefers to die clearly shows what the impact and what havoc a rape can do. In his letter in the newspaper, a letter that goes through marrow and which you have no doubt read, her son complains that she feels abandoned by the Justice Department. They feel abandoned, firstly because the punishments they feel are not strong enough. After a third of his sentence, the perpetrator now applies for an anklet or penitentiary leave, while they are still in the midst of misery and hence also the euthanasia request. Secondly, they feel also financially abandoned, which amazes me very much. After all, they have to pay for a lot of money themselves. My question is very simple. Will the new sexual criminal law, which we approved here last week, offer relief to those concerned, both in legal terms and in financial terms? Can they work better? Can they...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u60	The adoption of the new sexual criminal law, which we debated in Parliament last week, did not come a day too early. The courageous testimony in Wout's letter explains why that is so important. I think we have to admit that justice, police and victim support have often failed in the past. That is changing now, because the new law doubled the maximum sentence for rape. More than 2,000 magistrates and nearly 400 sex inspectors have been trained in our country in the fight against sexual violence. In Wout's letter, I particularly notice his question about placing victims and the way we communicate with victims at the centre. Victims are often addressed in a rather empathetic way by the judiciary. Victims ask that they be respected and that financial aid be provided. We have increased the budget for guidance by the Victims Fund to 125,000 euros. Victims also demand respect in the way they are taken care of. In the new care centres in the fight against sexual violence, nurses and psychologists are also ready to help victims. However, one must realise that justice cannot solve everything. The Länder also bear their responsibilities. I find it quite unacceptable that some victims in Flanders should wait until two years to be helped to deal with trauma. All the governments in our country must do the same if we are to solve the pandemic of sexual violence. I think the new sexual criminal law is a starting point and not an end point. We all have to pull the same strings so that people like Wout's mother and all the other victims no longer stand in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u61	I'm glad to hear you say that the victims should be at the centre. That is what this is about. Rape is a mental homicide. The victims often have to bear the misery of it for a lifetime; we see this clearly again here. We need to be aware of this as a society, but certainly also in the area of justice, so that we take the right steps. If we do not give victims a sense of justice or show them that we take the seriousness of rape to heart, we will never be able to increase the number of reports. That is, of course, the first step. We can make fantastic laws, but if the victims don't press charges, we can't do anything with the laws. So the vision that starts from the victim is very important. Thank you for fighting with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u62	Madam Secretary, last Friday the Vivaldi government closed its long-awaited energy deal. We might as well call it the ENGIE deal, because I think they uncorked a bottle of champagne at ENGIE's headquarters on Friday. You rolled out the red carpet for the power company. It is also entitled to operate nuclear power plants and also receives subsidies for gas plants. The energy deal does not mention the cost of decommissioning the nuclear power plants afterwards and, above all, nothing about the excess profits of ENGIE. Because the nuclear power plants are open today and ENGIE can sell massive electricity at very high prices, although these plants cost very little, the company makes huge overprofits. The PVDA study firm has calculated that these excess profits amount to around EUR 2.6 billion for the period 2021-2024. On 22 March, the energy regulator CREG issued a report confirming the calculations of the PVDA study department. That report states: "If federal governments consider these expected profits to be excessive, they can decide on an additional exceptional contribution." In other words, you can tax these excess profits. That is, of course, good news, because this could mean that we can reduce the VAT on gas not only in summer but also in winter. Why did the Vivaldi government decide not to tax these excess profits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u63	Minister, last Friday, the government decided to extend two nuclear reactors for ten years, from 2025 to 1935. The AFCN has, moreover, prepared a document last January that details quite precisely all the steps to be taken, on which the government has looked and which it has based itself to assign a mission order to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy, in order to begin negotiations with Engie. We learned last night that Mr. Saegeman, CEO of Engie, claimed that nuclear reactors should be stopped for two years in order to undertake the necessary work and that they could not be put back into service until 2027. This implies a supply disruption from 2025 to 2027. Minister, my questions are very simple. What do the statements of the CEO of Engie inspire you, when all the documents in the possession of the government and its will are very clear? Then, what is the status of the negotiations for now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u64	Madam Secretary, your government will not go down in history as the government that realizes the core exit. You reached an agreement on this last week. Apparently taboos are finally starting to fall in the government. You are finally beginning to listen a little more to what we have been saying here for years. Of course, it could be a little more than what you've decided. You choose to negotiate two nuclear power plants for a period of 10 years. It could have been 20 years. This would mean more low-carbon electricity for 10 years longer, but also more revenue, so that our citizens can benefit from it. On the other hand, Engie is now saying that it will not be able to achieve this until 2027, while the government has said here that it could make its decision in time. Who is actually right in that story? Another question is what happened to the EUR 8 billion in compensation and demands your party has put on the table to make the turn and keep the nuclear power stations open longer. If I'm right, there's about 670 million euros on the table right now. That's oddly exact the amount of nuclear tax we're expecting next year. Is that what it's gonna be? Madam Minister, my questions are therefore very specific. Will no more than the amount of the nuclear tax go to the energy transition? Is that what you brought in? Why do you think keeping up to two plants open for a minimum period of time is the right way forward? After all, there's a lot more in it. How will the government ensure that nuclear power stations can start operating in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u65	Madam Secretary, after years of play, last Friday white smoke came out of the fireplace. There is a decision in principle to extend the lifespan of Objective 4 and Tihange 3. While in a certain program the white rabbit was exposed, the government thought at the press conference that a white rabbit had been magical from the top hat. Madam Secretary, unfortunately it was a skinny rabbit, skin and bone. The war in Ukraine was a gallant way for the Greens not to suffer a loss of face. The intention of the deal is to become less dependent on abroad, but yet it has been decided to build two gas plants. In fact, this chord is a combination of some loose intentions, which often have little to do with a lifetime extension. Everyone had brought their own wish list. Green made the crown with a shopping list of no less than 8 billion euros. It's like the money's just here before the pick-up. The ink of the chord was not yet dry or Vivaldi's disagreement already overshadowed the whole. According to Green, there was no guarantee of an outcome. For the MR was 10 years too little and it had to be more plants. Open Vld even spoke threatening language towards the operator. As a negotiating position, that can count, and that is because you never wanted to prepare Plan B. Madam Secretary, why do these plants only remain open for 10 years and not 20 years? Why do we not have any guarantee of new nuclear capacity in the future today? Why do you always manage to smash your own windows with the disagreement in your government and thus weaken your negotiating position towards Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Minister Van der Straeten is in Paris for a ministerial meeting of the International Energy Agency to negotiate these topics with her colleagues. After all, Belgium is Vice-President of the International Energy Agency. A great deal has happened since December 2021, which has led to our energy policy being adjusted. Due to the war in Ukraine, all European countries have taken measures that also affect the import and export of energy for us. Power stations in France have problems, which could compromise supply. There is also an acceleration of the energy transition, leading to more electrification. Last Friday, the government took a double decision. First of all, we are boosting the transition towards renewable energy of EUR 1.2 billion. So this is not about the amount you mentioned, Mr Wollants. It could be a lot more, because you may have heard that we have also agreed to publish an OLO which will probably bring much more. This will then be the contribution of individuals, who can also invest in the transition, in addition to the public money involved. That is a lever that will bring much more than what it costs and will help us out of the fossil dependence that we are still dealing with today by mispolicy or non-policy over the past 20 years. We have also decided to operationalise the security mechanism, the CRM you have devised together with Minister Van der Straeten, in such a way that we can ensure the supply if necessary. In this context, we have also decided to extend 2 gigawatts of nuclear capacity for a period of 10 years, as the coalition agreement had actually made possible and in line with what the European Commission is asking for, namely for greater independence and more diversified energy supplies. A mandate has been given within a very clear framework to the Minister for Energy, together with the Prime Minister, to talk to the European Commission and to consider the impact of the extension on the CRM and to conclude those talks. There is also talk with Engie about the ten-year extension of the life of two nuclear power plants. Those calls should be over by the beginning of June. This is subject to conditions. We have said that our country will never operate itself. The core operator, with its contribution to the company, remains responsible for decommissioning, the irradiated fuel and all associated costs for the seven reactors. I would like to inform those who believe that these costs will be borne by us. Legislative work will also be required. As for Mr. Saegeman's statements, he repeated what he had always said. They have always stated that they need at least five years and Mr. Saegeman has only confirmed it. Previous governments that could have made the decisions on time knew this when the last ENGIE question was asked in 2018. I'm sorry to have to say it, but that's the reality! A nuclear extension to a maximum of 2 GW of course does not offer a solution for the winter 2025. This was already indicated in the December 2021 note. We know the other obstacles. This is not just about ENGIE. We need CRM to be sure of the supply for the winter 2025. In the same bold way that we reached this agreement last Friday, we will also negotiate with ENGIE, not in the television studios, not here on this forum. We know that we are in exceptional times, we ask exceptional efforts, the government does this, we expect the same from ENGIE. Last Monday, following the energy price measures already taken, Mrs Merckx added the third package, a total of EUR 3 billion. The principle is that we give back every euro that the government has in excess of its revenue through the energy bill. You specifically asked for the surplus, which we believe could be EUR 200 billion at European level. The European Commission was asked to take action in this regard. If that is not the case, the federal government will take its own initiative by June 2022. Minister Van der Straeten has indeed asked the CREG to lift the confidentiality of profits in the energy sector. That information was made public last week. Transparency is particularly important in this area. The next step is indeed to examine what initiatives are possible. That was assigned to the CREG. We will certainly be discussing this subject. I would add that the previous governments have put legislation into practice and that there is therefore a risk of a legal battle if unilateral measures are taken. The previous government has entered into a contract with ENGIE in which it is stipulated that the government cannot unilaterally change the nuclear rent for Doel 1 and Doel 2 or the allocation contribution mechanism for Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3, as indicated in a notice of the administration of the SPF Economy. There are limits to what we can do, but we will do the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u67	Madam Minister, I still find this quite incredible: on the one hand, the measures you are taking in favour of the population are just crumbs. They're taken from the dropper. This morning, people were still on the street. Prices are exploding. They don't know how to pay their bills anymore. Their wages are still blocked. On the other hand, when it comes to attacking multinationals, we roll out the red carpet and do nothing! It's really outrageous. Here you refer again to the Greek calends and mention the possible taxation of overprofits, perhaps for the month of June. You're referring to the European Commission. But this one,- this almost never happens! - said that Member States could take measures. The CREG reports to you and you, what are you doing? Nothing! You let Engie-Electrabel take all this money and that is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u68	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers, which, unfortunately, are very partial, especially with regard to the only specific question that I asked you. We are not sure, by listening to your answers, that these nuclear power plants will deliver electricity by 2025 and you only repeat that Mr Saegeman, himself, also repeats what he has always said. But the truth is, the world has changed. The government has taken a very clear position. And so, I am surprised that after this government's position – and I find it really irresponsible on the part of this great businessman to have such chilling words as we start negotiations and these will allow us to discuss everything that has been said by colleagues to find a balance between the position of the state, which represents the general interest, and the position of the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u69	Madam Minister, first of all, what you are saying here today is quite different from what the government has always told us. You say the government knew it took so much time. It's the same government that said here that it could, that it wasn't a problem and we would get there. Those two lines aren't quite right. Secondly, we asked you to take a decision before the end of 2020. You have lost a year and a half, but you now claim to have been very bold. Let us be honest for five minutes. Just make sure those power stations can keep running by 2025. Start the necessary steps now. Then we'll get there, otherwise we won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u70	Madam Minister, I am not confident that the Greens will defend this agreement. A non-believer is not sent to the negotiating table. That leads to sabotage. This decision is actually far too late and you have placed ENGIE-Electrabel in a luxurious seat. You should have listened to the Flemish interest two years ago. It's obvious to us. We want a lifetime extension of 20 years. We want a permanent presence of nuclear energy in a mix with renewable energy. We want investment now in the nuclear power stations of the future. According to Mr Lachaert, these plants were a dead body that could no longer be resuscitated. But judging by the fake chords you're stacking, it's exactly the vivaldi government that's lifeless. It's time to bury this government in 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u71	Madam President, Minister, this is 24 March, World TB Day. This is an opportunity to recall that we are still living with this disease today, with a rate of contamination which is certainly low, but which is constantly increasing. This increase could worsen in the coming months for two main reasons. First, tuberculosis particularly affects the most vulnerable audiences. However, as was said a moment ago, the explosion in energy prices, fuel prices and even food prices plunges more and more families into this precarious situation every day. Secondly, Ukrainians fleeing the horror of war in their country, whose situation is at the heart of the debates at the European and NATO summits, are experiencing one of the highest rates of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the world. This situation prompted me to question yesterday, the Director General of the Foreign Office, during the visit of the Ukrainian Refugee Registration Centre to the Heysel in which I participated. On this occasion, I was struck by the presence of a large number of women, very young children, but also of the elderly, public persons who are precisely the most vulnerable to this disease. Unfortunately, his answer has not reassured me at all. He explained to us that a consultation was under way with the crisis centre, but that nothing had yet been planned. Mr Minister, I therefore had to ask you about this issue and to draw your attention to the need for an inter-federal action plan - applicable throughout the country - against tuberculosis, including screening but also treatments, vaccines, barrier actions and management in the various specialized centres. Minister, when will our citizens, Ukrainian refugees and their host families (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u72	Mrs Rohonyi, you are right to point out that tuberculosis is still a very serious challenge, particularly in the context of the Ukrainian crisis. I will therefore be very concrete in this respect. Yesterday morning, we discussed in the CIM Santé publique on the basis of a very extensive opinion from the Risk Management Group (RMG), which will be published tomorrow. I therefore propose that you read it as soon as it is published. The RMG proposes, among other things, to the federated entities to organize a systematic screening of tuberculosis for people who have fled Ukraine, using a chest X-ray - except for children under five years of age and pregnant women. It is advisable to associate this screening with other preventive activities such as the provision of basic and catch-up vaccines, as well as a screening of urgent needs and medicines. A consensus was reached with my colleagues. You may know that the organisation of such screening is the responsibility of the federated entities, but I indicated yesterday that I was prepared to finance this X-ray of the thorax for all those who fled Ukraine, in order to obtain a systematic screening. I hope that this will be organised in the coming days in a massive manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u73	Minister, thank you for your response, for having understood the importance of considering tuberculosis as a major public health issue and for convening this ICD Public Health. I understand that some measures on the table would have been released with regard to systematic screening but also to vaccines. Vaccines have been promised by the European Union, and we must get them as soon as possible on our soil. I sincerely hope that these measures will be implemented very quickly. In any case, we'll see to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we began our sitting with a minute of silence devoted to the memory of the victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016, attacks as cruel as they were cowardly but which also showed the ability of our country, in all its components, to come together, to stand in solidarity and to face terror in the most intelligent way possible, namely to strengthen ties to remind us of our commitment to democratic values against all forms of extremism. It is in this context that we learn from the press that a large number of mosques in Flanders and Brussels have in recent days received letters of threats, intimidation and insults to their spiritual heritage. This is totally unacceptable, Minister. This must challenge us both as democrats and as politicians. We must not take this phenomenon lightly, which, unfortunately, is repeated at regular intervals, in this case, a few days from the beginning of Ramadan month, which, as you know, is an important moment in the spiritual life of our fellow citizens of Muslim faith. For this reason, I would like to know, Mr Minister, whether the government, your colleagues in the interior and in the justice sector, are informed of the fact that prompt information is being taken to assess and prosecute the perpetrators of these threats. In addition, it may be appropriate to see, more generally, whether there is a threat to these places of worship that affect our fellow Muslims.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u75	Madam President, I would be pleased to respond on behalf of the Minister of the Interior who is currently abroad. Colleagues, dear colleague Laaouej, every year the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) carries out a specific assessment of potential threats under Ramadan at the request of the Crisis Centre. On the basis of this assessment, the Crisis Centre then reminds local police areas, through a specific directive, of the measures that are still applicable in this area. These are still included in the general measures of the Crisis Centre under the heading soft targets. In order to maintain public order, the Crisis Centre also draws the attention of local police areas to the need for their own local operational risk analysis. The news of recent years gives more substance to the threat inspired by violent right-wing extremism because several terrorist acts have been committed against Muslims in the West. The Ramadan period is timely to allow some to spread their animosity through, among other things, hate mail, as attested by those sent to the various mosques in recent days. It goes without saying that monitoring this threat requires, as always, good cooperation between federal and local authorities. OCAM and the Crisis Centre are monitoring this phenomenon carefully and continuously with a view to possible additional protection measures. The local police areas concerned shall inform those national partners of the situation on the ground and shall provide for the police capacity necessary for security on the spot. The handling of criminal complaints lodged by certain mosques or communes falls within the competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u76	Minister, Muslims in Belgium do not ask for preferential treatment, they do not ask for different rights from others. They ask for their dignity to be respected, they ask not to be subjected to threats, insults. Several mosques filed complaints following letters of threats and intimidation on the eve of Ramadan month. I understand that the police, and the State in a more general way, are mobilized. Minister, we will ask you to come back to us to explain to us what this threat is, what the results of the investigations are, even if they are the responsibility of the prosecution and the justice system. However, when one of the major components of our society, the Muslims of Belgium, is so ill-treated by intimidation letters, we must be able to tell us what is clearly and concretely the investigations to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u77	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u78	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u79	Pursuant to rule 116, the bill is subject to limited general discussion. A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u80	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u81	Madam President, as rapporteur, I would like to take the floor because the committee has discussed information that is important and interesting to share with the plenary. Firstly, the draft law was adopted by nine votes to three. However, there has also been a discussion on Ukraine and on whether or not energy prices have increased. On these two specific points, I should like to briefly quote the Secretary of State so that the whole plenary can take note of her words. Firstly, on Ukraine, you will read the passage on page 23, where Madam Secretary of State stresses the following. I quote: "Creating simulations about the macro-impact of the crisis is currently not possible at this stage. It will depend on the duration and outcome of the conflict and the sanctions taken in both directions. A federal interkabinets working group was convened by the Secretary of State's cabinet to identify the various questions, needs and customs. On the basis of this information, an initial budgetary assessment shall be made as soon as possible." It is important for Members to know that a structure has been set up to assess the economic and budgetary impact of the Ukraine crisis and that the Secretary of State has taken the necessary steps. Secondly, I refer to page 24 of the report, where the Secretary of State addressed the question of the exact impact of rising energy prices on the budget. I quote the Secretary of State again: "The revenue generated by higher electricity and gas prices is estimated by the FPS Finance at a higher yield of EUR 521 million, the higher revenue from VAT on fuel oil at EUR 83 million, the higher income from the redistribution contribution at EUR 32 million and the green electricity certificates offshore wind farms at EUR 177 million. In total, this means an impact of 813 million euros gross additional revenue." The Secretary of State continues: "Of course, high energy prices also have negative effects on public finances: higher operating expenditure, higher social policy spending, higher civil servants' wages and benefits, negative impact on growth as well. The National Bank of Belgium's analysis concluded that higher energy prices as a whole have a negative impact on public finances. The claim that high energy prices mean a net yield for the State is therefore incorrect." I think it is important for all Members of Parliament to know the position of the Secretary of State because it reflects the budgetary margin. This is where my part ends as rapporteur, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u82	Thank you, Mr Loones. You now have the floor to explain your party's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u83	When discussing the first update sheet, which is worth EUR 200 million because of circumstances, I was the only speaker - I pointed out the importance of it. We in Parliament are indeed sometimes very quick to discuss dossiers with a very large budgetary impact. Today, three months later, we are discussing the second EUR 900 million adaptation sheet, again a particularly large envelope. Of course, there are reasons for releasing these resources, which will be discussed later in the debate. But because of the size of the dossier alone, I insist on discussing it here in the plenary. I am particularly pleased, moreover, that members of the opposition and also Mr Leysen, as a majority member, have signed up as speakers. Finally, this is a total amount for all the adjustment sheets of EUR 1.2 billion for items already included in the basic budget and for others that had not yet been included, while the budget deficit was estimated at EUR 16.5 billion in December. So these are not small amounts. We have repeatedly pointed out the special situation. We will continue to do so. In fact, in the case of budgets, there is normally always a budget format first. There will then be major debates of principle, ideally appropriate in the multi-annual framework agreed during, for example, a government negotiation. During the year there will then be budgetary checks where there will be some possibility of monitoring a number of issues. Finally, if necessary, there are adjustment sheets to solve the small problems. But we do have very special times. We are now working towards a budgetary control system in which we have to debate billions. Normally, budgetary control is only an audit of what was entered in the budget for that particular year a few months earlier. So it's very exceptional. We are also doing this not in the context of budgetary controls, but in the context of adaptation sheets. So we all need to understand how special these times are. As far as the content is concerned, I have a number of questions to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, on the basis of the committee's discussion. Firstly, the government promised an energy cheque of 100 euros. It was in the first or second package of energy measures, depending on how one counts. At that time it was said that people with a gas and electricity contract could not be treated differently than people with a fuel oil contract, so everyone would get the same treatment. In the meantime, the logic has become obsolete and the government itself has admitted that this was bullshit, since different treatment is possible. Now who heats on fuel oil, gets something else than who heats on gas. Anyway, it was then that everyone would get 100 euros. To the question in committee when exactly that money would be on the people's account, you replied that it would certainly be before 30 June, between 15 April and 30 June. After all, there was still some work to be done. The legislative basis had to be settled first, which is now done through the adaptation sheet, after which the funds would be transferred to the CREG, which in turn would be made available to the supplier and then to consumers. Is the timing still the same? Will people see the 100 euro premium paid into their accounts by 30 June at the latest? Secondly, much has already been said about the cost of vaccines. This interesting debate deserves a few words here in plenary. An important part of the 900 million euros of the adaptation sheet is intended to cover the costs of booster vaccines ordered from Pfizer. The cost per dose of vaccine is 19.5 euros and that is not minus. After all, we can now happen to compare what the vaccines cost earlier. This was also discussed in committee. In December 2020 we received some insights into a number of prizes by chance. This showed that a Pfizer vaccine cost 12 euros. Today, that turns out to be 19.5 euros. At the present stage, more and more vaccines are being produced and economies of scale should be possible. We are in a special economic context, because Pfizer appears to be the only supplier, if we are allowed to follow Mrs De Block on that point. The fact that the cost goes from EUR 12 to EUR 19,5 at a stage where many more vaccines should be produced raises questions. In committee, you rightly stated that you are not sitting at the European table, that you cannot negotiate, that the deals are being closed there. We did ask you to contact the Minister of Health. You promised to do that. Have you been in contact with Secretary Vandenbroucke? What did that get you? Has that dossier been put on the European table? Do other countries make the same analysis that, when more vaccines are produced, it is illogical for prices to rise? My third point concerns detention homes. The basic budget included funds for this purpose. With the adaptation sheet they are now moving to the precise budget line. We have had a discussion on this in committee, because it is always interesting to include funds in the budget, but will everything happen to it? You have entered these funds in the 2022 budget, Madam Secretary of State. Then these moneys should also be invested in 2022. Your answer in committee was 'I read from the report - 'In terms of timing, the Secretary of State stresses that the Minister of Justice is doing everything in his power to achieve his objectives'. That will undoubtedly please Mrs De Wit, our expert in justice, who is also here. It is the same Minister of Justice who promised to execute the sentences by December, but in December suddenly discovered that there had been Corona for two years, which was a reason to postpone the project until June. The Minister of Justice, who is doing everything possible to bring measures into force very quickly, will therefore do everything in his power to achieve his objective. I'd like to take your word for it, Madam Secretary of State. Unfortunately, I have a little less confidence in the partner of the Minister of Justice, because in order to build his detention homes, he needs the help of the Secretary of State responsible for the Buildings, Mr Michel and Mr Michel, we do not hear anything. The government has decided to grant an additional EUR 1 billion investment envelope. Of these, an amount is to be paid for Mr Van Quickenborne's detention homes. Mr Van Quickenborne is asking for his money, but we do not hear anything from Mr Michel, when he just has to make sure that those detention homes are there. You have returned by giving the table of the 27 projects to which the amount of 1 billion will be spent, as requested by the Minister of Justice. But the box for Secretary of State Michel, responsible for the Directorate of Buildings, is blank. You replied to my question on this in committee: "So far, no dossier has been submitted by the competent State Secretary concerning the Buildings Control section for the detention buildings, but it is reported that the Regie is busy with this dossier." Madam Secretary of State, given that the direction is very busy and that the Minister of Justice is committed to achieving his objectives, I assume that you have received a reply from Secretary of State Michel in the meantime. Is that the case? Is the MR doing his job, too? Secretary of State Michel has already visited the Finance Committee. In doing so, he has left an unforgettable impression, I must say, but not in a positive sense. I hope you will forgive me for calling for more clarity in that dossier. I will conclude with a general point. The rapporteur referred earlier to an interesting passage during the discussions, in particular the question of the budget. Due to rising energy prices, are there or are there not more revenue for the government? Did you find a magic bag of money that can be spent at will? The Secretary of State for the Budget has clearly replied that there is no such thing. An important part of the EUR 900 million allocated by the adaptation sheet are new cents. These are therefore new deficits, which are not included in the basic budget and for which no margins were calculated. That makes it de facto that we are less in favour of it in budgetary terms. For this reason, last week in plenary, I stressed the urgency of facing up to the figures. We can't let them rock us to sleep. In the meantime, we have received the report from the Monitoring Committee. That report points out that, thanks to economic growth, the budget deficit goes from 16.5 billion to 16.7 billion - I say it from memory, but it has to be checked again and the budget is unchanged in the perception. Reality, however, shows a different picture under the varnish layer. We have not yet discussed the legitimate ambition to invest EUR 1 billion in Defence, albeit once. These investments will also have to be included in the budget. The Prime Minister stressed that they would not be included in the 2023 budget, but would still be included in the budgetary control, which would therefore have to be financed by this year. We are in a very bad budgetary situation and everyone should face this reality. There are serious consequences. This means that fewer policies can be pursued; the money pocket does not reach far enough. This means that we are in a weaker position than a number of other countries, which do have their budget in order. These countries can act decisively. That is why we discussed this issue last week - that we are more sensitive to blackmail than other countries, just because we cannot stand on our own feet and make our own choices. I hope that the government will also consider a policy of savings in addition to investment policy. Some realism forces me to conclude that this may not happen. I confine myself to the realistic hope that you will implement at least some of your coalition agreement on the revenue side. I am not talking about extra taxes, because you will undoubtedly introduce them. In the meantime, that has become clear. I am referring to labour market policy. If more people work, it's good for them. Their purchasing power will be strengthened. This is also good for your budget, because it will mean fewer payments. On the other hand, you will even receive income, as workers have an income and therefore contribute to state finances. It is good for social security, which is therefore financed more thoroughly and better. Madam Secretary of State, you are unfortunately not Deputy Prime Minister, but as Secretary of State for the Budget you attend many meetings of the nuclear cabinet. You are in a position to put your hand in the air each time. I would ask you to do so, whenever there is the ambition to make a much-needed expenditure, stressing that the government agreement also wants to boost the level of effectiveness and add the question when that ambition is implemented and additional steps are taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u84	Madam Secretary of State, we were able to read in the press today that the war in Ukraine is unfortunately increasing the budget deficit by EUR 1.5 billion. This is evident today from a new estimate by the Planning Bureau. Two budgetary adjustments have already been submitted to us in this House, representing an additional EUR billion in expenditure. The Prime Minister has just left to announce that the government will spend an additional EUR 1 billion on Defence. You and your federal government are aiming to reach a deficit of 3% by 2024, the maximum limit according to the European Union. Do you consider that target of 3% in 2024 to be feasible and realistic today? That's a question that burns on everyone's lips. The reason why I am asking that question is that you are surrounded by ministers and secretaries of state who simply care about what you say and budgetary discipline. In a joint paper in the newspaper De Tijd, the socialist ministers and secretaries of state of your government are opposed to budgetary discipline which they themselves have never shown. This is not serious at all, as regional deficits and debts, especially in Wallonia and Brussels, are becoming unsustainable. It is also unseen that ministers and secretaries of state are communicating with the parties. Rather, it is common practice for party presidents or MPs to express party positions in the media. It certainly leads to a complete schizophrenic situation in this country. In Flanders, as far as possible, attempts are being made to get rid of it. That is where strict budgetary rules are sought and which is clearly advocated. In Wallonia, we see completely the opposite, with those socialist ministers and secretaries of state in the lead. Worse still, in response to the European Recovery Fund and the reduction in revenues of EUR 350 million for Wallonia, Walloon Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo argued earlier this year for what is called federal solidarity. Madam Secretary of State, we know by now what federal solidarity means. That means more Flemish money for Walloon spending. That is the reality. The argument against budgetary discipline is also totally inconsistent with the warning given by the governor of the National Bank, in an interview in De Standaard, that Belgium has no margin when there is a new economic crisis. For those who have not yet understood it in this Parliament, there is already a new crisis with the war in Ukraine at this very moment. We're already ready. According to the governor, therefore, there should be no further delay in reducing the budget deficit and public debt and it cannot be assumed that interest rates will remain low, which you are doing in your budget for the time being. If we do not build up buffers, we will have a scenario like that in Greece in five or ten years' time. These are not the words of the Flemish interest but of the governor of the National Bank. So, with the socialist ministers and secretaries of state in your government, we are going straight to such a Greek scenario. By the way, they're still writing opinion papers about it. It has already been said by the rapporteur, it is March and we already have the second adjustment of the budget here. It is March and the budget has already been adjusted for more than EUR 1 billion. That is yet another proof that the budgets of this government are tied together. That is not just what we say, as is evident from the destructive reports of the Court of Auditors on the accounts of this country. This is not even about the adjustments to the energy agreement in March. Those numbers aren't in yet. Also, the additional expenditure promised for the Defense Department is not yet included. The consequences of the Ukraine crisis, amounting to EUR 1.5 billion, are not yet there. These billions of expenditure are not even included in the budgetary adjustments we are discussing here. All these billions of additional expenditure still have to be included in the budgetary control for the Easter holidays. This expenditure will therefore become figs after Easter as far as the budget is concerned. Madam Secretary of State, I want to make it clear that you are not playing a good role in this. You are denying and fleeing the country's budgetary situation. When we were here in December to discuss the budget, I called you an inflation denier. In committee, on behalf of Flemish Interest, I have asked you several times about inflation, the price increases, the exceeding of the central index and its impact on the budget. Until Christmas, your answer was that the impact was budget-neutral, that there was no net impact on the budget. In the press, you declared yourself the Iron Lady of the budget, but with regard to inflation, you were not Iron Lady but rather a Comical Ali, to the Iraqi Minister of Information who said: "There are no Americans in Baghdad." There is no impact of inflation on the budget . There is no impact of price increases on the budget. You denied the light of the sun. The rapporteur has put it right, and your euro seems to have fallen in the meantime. In the meantime, you are reluctant to admit that this inflation has a downright negative impact on the budget. That's late, way too late. It could be a lot worse. The war in Ukraine increases the risk of stagflation, the economic phenomenon characterised by slower growth and higher unemployment, thus economic stagnation, combined with rising prices, combined with inflation. This government is all too often blind in terms of inflation and stagflation. I have not yet been able to ask you the question in committee, but are you prepared, by analogy with the sensitivity analysis of the rise in interest rates, to have sensitivity analyses also carried out on the impact of inflation and the stagflatory pressure on the budget? It is important that we know these figures. In mid-February, the National Bank made it clear that this country must build buffers in order to continue to bear the debt. The danger of stagflation and the energy crisis we are experiencing at the moment put additional pressure on public expenditure. For the defence sector, too, additional expenditure will be necessary and inevitable, as has already been said. An additional question is how you want to tackle this challenge. In any case, a proactive policy and caution seem to us to be at issue. In any case, that proactivity doesn't put your government on the line. Your government is constantly running behind in terms of the budget. This government has failed to use the inflation warnings for summer 2021 to intervene already that summer. Last October's budgetary exercise was the moment to adjust, but you did not grasp that opportunity. If the economy attracts again this year or next year, there is also some room to intervene. This should have been done in October, also because we will soon be faced with elections again. We know from the past that in the second half of their term, with the prospect of elections, Belgian governments will no longer dare to take serious action. For us, the government certainly did not have to clean up blindly, but a minimum of seriousness and effort was needed to preserve the credibility of budgetary policy. As you know - and I have already referred to the opinion piece in De Tijd - the PS is in charge of this purple-green government and wants that party above all to keep the money tap of Flanders and the hardworking Flemings open. As a result, this country continues to lag behind budgetaryally, due to a complete lack of political will to get things in order and to make political choices about the core tasks of the government, the towering taxes in that country, the never-solved pension file and the much too low activity on the labour market, especially in Wallonia. It has already been said here, purple-green and the regions continue to transfer the invoice of the vaccines to each other. The third vaccination, the booster shot, which cost EUR 527 million, still requires an agreement on funding. That did not prevent you and your government from putting this amount in the budget as an income. In committee, you confirmed to our question that there is still no agreement with the regions. Hence my obvious question as to how this is going to work. In the meantime, have you reached agreement on the distribution of the vaccine invoice with the Regions? We are now a few months away, but neither the federal government budget nor the regional government budgets have finally taken into account the cost of the booster injection. It could be worse, by the way. In this second amendment to the federal budget, a further EUR 76 million of vaccines will be ordered for the fourth wave of vaccination. The third and fourth wave vaccinations are now subject to an invoice of EUR 600 million, which your government and the governments of the regions continue to pass on to each other. A fact is that neither purple-green nor regional authorities in their budgets have taken into account the booster shot. Colleagues, the Justice chapter refers to the opening of seven detention homes in 2022 and nine in 2023. That's the way it's literally read in this bill. This, of course, is not in line with reality on the ground, but that is how we know the Minister of Justice. We call him the Minister of Announcement Policy by now. None of those 16 planned detention homes are operational at this time. The prisons are overcrowded and the announcement that every sentence would be executed has not yet come into the house. No one wants a prison on his street. Even the minister's partymates don't want that. They oppose his detention homes. But there is one city where the detention prison is pushed down the throat of the population, namely the city of Kortrijk. Kortrijk and the Kortrijkzanen are being abused for experiments on Justice. Already in April last year there were plans to build a detention facility at a location in Kortrijk, but that was deliberately withheld from the population. Minister Van Quickenborne has put the local population before a fulfilled fact. That detention facility had to and would be established, without any participation or consultation with the population. We wonder who's thinking of building a prison project next to a kindergarten, a primary school and between a college and a university. The way in which this alternative prison was announced and the location that was chosen, of course, break any necessary support among the population. Finally, the adjustment of the budget contains a number of measures on energy prices. Madam Secretary of State, these measures are, however, peanuts. It is a collection of very limited and, above all, short-term measures. By dragging from energy deal to energy deal and by dragging from energy agreement to energy agreement, the current government is not coming to structural and sustainable solutions to the energy crisis. However, this crisis, unlike the half-hearted measures taken by the current government, will not soon disappear. The Prime Minister called the energy agreement a painkiller. Actually, that comparison with a painkiller is true. Everyone knows that when someone takes a painkiller for, for example, headaches, those headaches do not necessarily disappear after the painkiller wears off. The same applies to energy prices. Once the current government's half-hearted, temporary measures have been worked out, the energy crisis will not have disappeared. For example, let us think about the prices of the pump. Last weekend, the price of a tank of diesel decreased by ten euros. We are only half a week later and the price has risen again by 10 euros. After half a week, the half-hearted measures taken by the current government have brought us back to exactly the same level where we started. A tank of diesel costs more than two euros per litre. Of this, only one euro goes to diesel itself. The other euro still consists of costs, contributions, excise duties and VAT. Germany, by the way, sets an example. I gave it here this afternoon. Germany today reduces excise duties on diesel and petrol to the European minimum. The German Government is therefore apparently successful in something which the current government is failing to achieve, i.e. to keep excise duties to the strict minimum. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to conclude with this remark. Motorists and citizens in this country are being squeezed out like lemons by you and your government. Our car is the milk cow of the state treasury. Despite the half-hearted measures taken by the current government, half of the price at the pump in the pockets of the government and in the bottomless pits of the budget is still disappearing. Your government promises a lot and does little, but doesn't realize anything. The prices at the pump and the energy bills remain priceless. That is why we are also proposing, for example, that excise duties should be brought to an absolute minimum. After all, the government is letting our citizens and our people pay the bill now, but sooner rather than later we will present the bill to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u85	Madam President, this is the second budget adjustment this year! Perhaps what is remarkable in this adjustment is less what is not found in it than what is found in it. What we can find here: a justice component involving the opening of seven detention houses in 2022 and nine houses in 2023. We can therefore of course welcome this progress, which is totally insufficient to compensate for overcrowding; since there are 35 prisons in our country, totalling 9,300 places for prisoners, but according to the figures of December 2021, there are currently not 9,300 prisoners but 10,781 prisoners in Belgian prisons; in 2020, there were 10,742. As a result, prison overcrowding is not decreasing. It's growing under this government. And that is not to mention the execution of sentences of less than three years, postponed for lack of space. And there is not only the problem of overcrowding in prisons, there is also a problem of subpopulation of prison staff. There aren't enough agents. As a result, they accumulate thousands of days of late leave. So it is not by opening a few detention centres that we will compensate for this overcrowding. Despite this, the intention is still to enforce these short sentences. Which will make the problem even worse. But we'll see! The Secretary of State will say that this problem falls within the purview of the Minister of Justice. He's not here. So, okay, next file! The following is a record of vaccine doses. Section 25 of the budget adjustment of the Public Health FPS provides for a budget adjustment for Omicron-adapted vaccines. However, the Secretary of State did not indicate the price of the vaccine. It only indicated the total price of 75.976 million and the number of vaccines: 3,986,165 doses. But it happens that after a particularly complicated mathematical operation - in the jargon of mathematicians, it is called division - it has been concluded that the price of each dose amounts to 19,50 euros. This is very interesting information because, so far, the government has done everything to keep the price of vaccines secret. Madam Secretary of State, I do not know how you discuss with the other members of the government: do you defend transparency without worrying about others and without giving the number directly (even if you can guess)? My colleague Sofie Merckx here addressed a written question to you on this subject, and you sent him back to Minister Vandenbroucke. And what did Minister Vandenbroucke say? He simply refused to answer the question. This lack of transparency – at least up to your heroic bill, Madam Secretary of State – on vaccines is deplorable, not only in terms of democracy, which we are used to with this government, but also in terms of economics. Indeed, it would be in the best interest of States to make the price of vaccines transparent, as this would make it possible to negotiate these prices in a more advantageous way. So, to my knowledge, only Pfizer BioNTech currently produces vaccines adapted to the Omicron variant. In December 2020, Madam Secretary of State, you tweeted about the price of doses, and at the time, we were 12 euros. So we go from 12 euros to 19.50 euros per dose! We still need to appreciate the increase, from 12 to 19,50 euros! That's an increase of 62%. It is clear that this price increase is not justified. In this regard, I would like to mention a few facts. First, the price of a drug is supposed to fall when it has been on the market for some time, as investments in the development of the first vaccine have been largely amortized by sales worldwide. Second, let's look at the benefits of Pfizer. They doubled in 2021 to $22 billion, Madam Secretary of State, $22 billion! Third, there were no additional costs that could reasonably explain this price increase. It's just a matter of adapting existing vaccines to variants, which messenger RNA vaccines lend themselves particularly well. Fourth, Pfizer BioNTech clearly takes advantage of its monopoly position on Omicron-adapted vaccines to artificially raise the price. Finally, fifthly, the messenger RNA technology used for vaccines has been developed in public universities and, in addition, these companies have received public funds to produce the vaccine! And after that, they dare to send the state an excessive bill. That's amazing! So let Big Pharma make big profits by taking advantage of people's distress, we're used to it, Madam Secretary of State! But let the government accept this enrichment and pay the bill, it's incomprehensible, too, on your part! You say, "It's not me. Go see my colleagues." But you're still the guardian of the public treasure. When it comes to austerity measures, you are the first to say that the population must tighten its belt. It would still be necessary to adopt an attitude especially for a multinational which achieves 22 billion profits. In this text, there is also a lack of measures to deal with the explosion in energy prices. We know that this is a social disaster and that the population can't do it anymore. With regard to energy, the adjustment relates to an increase in subsidies to CREG for the heating premium and for the extension of the social tariff, measures which are certainly necessary but which are absolutely not sufficient. People expected much more ambitious, much stronger measures to meet social needs. What we would have liked to see in this budgetary adjustment is, for example, a 6% VAT on all energy sources on a permanent basis. What did you do not in this adjustment but on the margins of this adjustment? During the winter, you didn't do anything. And then, as spring and summer come, you thought about reducing VAT on gas during the summer. Leaving VAT at 21% during the winter and putting it at 6% during the summer, we didn't think a government would ever dare do it! It was not counting the Vivaldi! The Vivaldi dared! Another major absence from this budget adjustment is fuel. It is true that, without adjustment, the government has taken a measure on the issue of fuel. It should be noted, however, that it took five months between the first statement by the Minister of Finance and the action taken by the government. It took five months to take action on fuel, which is exceeded after five days. Indeed, if we look before and after the measurement, the price per litre of diesel has decreased by 0.001 euro. Waiting five months to give a reduction of one tenth of a cent, that's a government that listens to the people! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, since I was present on another committee, Mrs De Block, our group chair, has explained our concerns. Since some colleagues like to hear it in Latin, I say it like this:bis repetita non placement. Repetition is not always necessary and does not charm. For the rest, I would add that the budget is, of course, a measure, but that measure loses its value in geopolitical turbulence. However, we have full confidence in the work of the government and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u87	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already said, this second budgetary adjustment leaves something to be desired in terms of form. On February 23, you were already depositing it. This is all the more regrettable in view of the fact that all this expenditure could have been anticipated in the initial preparation of the 2022 budget and should have been anticipated. By 2021, we had experienced one year with five fiscal adjustments, with the adjustment waltz beginning at the end of March. How many adjustments to the budget will be made in 2022, bearing in mind that, while the adjustment under consideration includes energy measures such as the heating premium and the extended social rate until 30 June 2022, it does not include the new aid recently deployed (social rate until 30 September 2022, VAT at 6% for gas, reduction of EUR 0.175 per litre of petrol or diesel, neutralisation of the price of train tickets, exceptional temporary unemployment until 30 June)? Therefore, in a third adjustment, the total cost of these measures, estimated at $1.3 billion, will need to be taken into account. In addition, the judiciary (magistrates and police) strongly denounces the blatant lack of investigators as underinvestment in a range of areas such as the equipment, the fleet or the computer cart of the judicial police. In response, the Federal Judicial Police had introduced a request for an additional €35 million in the budget conclave for the initial financial year 2022 in order to meet the many major challenges faced by the Federal Judicial Police. However, this request has not been accepted, and it is truly catastrophic. That is why, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I am relaying the request of the judicial police and tabled an amendment suggesting that the budget of the Judicial Police DG should be increased by EUR 35 million. This budget is to be used to recruit 260 investigators and to fund the operating and investment costs of these new recruits, as well as those of the 300 investigators of the judicial police. In this way, we could catch up with the disinvestment in operating costs, the IT cart and the fleet, but also make new investments. For all these reasons, we will vote against the adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u88	Madam President, I have already answered many questions in committee, but I will try to answer the additional questions. I shall deal first with Mr Loones' questions. According to my information, the energy check will still be paid between 15 April and 30 June. You asked if I had already spoken with Minister Vandenbroucke to be vigilant about the prices of vaccines in the negotiations with the European Commission. These prices have indeed been agreed within the framework of the European negotiations with industry. The price increases have been known since August 2021. The industry refers to increasing demand due to booster vaccination. I have not spoken to Minister Vandenbroucke personally about this recently, but we will have the opportunity to do so in the coming days. Yesterday, a dossier of the Buildings Regie van Bouwen was presented to the Interkabinets Working Group on the possibilities for the acquisition of buildings that can be set up as detention homes. I have often pointed out to the ministers that we need to work on increasing the level of activity. That is indeed very important for our country. The more people are at work, the better that is for public finances and for the people themselves. Then I come to Mr Vermeersch's questions. After the corona crisis, I really intended to ensure that all measures that had to be temporary would also remain temporary so that there would be no structural expenditure and we could move towards a 3% budget deficit by 2024. However, as you know, it is very difficult times at the moment to carry out economic analyses for the future, including on the budget deficit and the extent to which we will be able to achieve the budgetary targets. However, I have already indicated that there are a number of needs in the short term as a result of the Ukraine crisis. We will have to comply with that. Like the corona crisis, the Ukraine crisis will have an impact on economic growth, but unfortunately we do not yet know how long that crisis will last and what its impact will be. Apart from what is happening in that crisis and the impact it will have on our economy, we must, of course, ensure that we continue to reform in a structural way and that we continue the efforts of the coalition agreement. I will continue to insist on this in the forthcoming budgetary control. As always, it will be examined whether the measures we have worked out during the budget formulation are actually being implemented and what the impact of these measures is currently. You know my concern about rising inflation and its impact on the population, but I have already said a few times that carrying out a sensitivity analysis of the effects on inflation is very difficult because the causes of inflation can be very different and, of course, the reactions of monetary policy makers. Of course, like you, I follow everything that comes from the scientific institutions, from the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank of Belgium. They follow that very closely and their information is very valuable. We can base our efforts on this for the establishment of the budget and for the control of the budget. As regards the payment of vaccines, the Federal Government has adopted a position with which Minister Vandenbroucke is now negotiating with the Länder. A number of inter-federal activities are planned in this context next week. As far as the courts are concerned, I was asked whether I think my colleague can still do that. I can only say that I assume that it will succeed. The issue of the Buildings Regie is now also on the table, so I think it can go on. Mrs. Matz, you're asking me how many adjustment slips we're going to have again in 2022. Unfortunately, I can't answer you. I am currently working with my departments to introduce all the decisions of the Council of Ministers into budgetary control - all the measures to reduce energy prices - but as the economic situation is so changing and we do not know how long the war in Ukraine will last, it is really impossible to foresee all the costs, all the costs, all the support we have to provide to our citizens and our businesses. I am trying to put everything in the budget adjustment that will be made in the coming weeks, but of course I cannot promise that there will be no more adjustment slips later in the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u89	I have one more question, Madam Secretary of State. You say that, in the context of the Ukraine crisis, there are additional challenges for the state budget. I understand that, of course. There'll be a lot more questions. I understand that every minister in the Flemish government has put his list back on the table. Madam Secretary of State, what is Mrs Lalieux's additional question for the POD MI for the living wage of Ukrainian refugees on our territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that after a year of Vivaldi from the self-proclaimed Iron Lady, there is little left of the budget. I think you're too good, Madam Secretary of State. The sensitivity analysis aims to assess the impact of inflation and stagflagation. You say that this is difficult, but I do not know if you realise that we are currently going from crisis to crisis with this country and with Europe. There's a war in Europe. It's all hands on deck today. Hard to go, too. If it's difficult, as Secretary of State, you're gonna have to pull the files over to you. You have to make sure you don't go blind with this government. You need to make sure you don't go after the facts all the time. You should not say months apart that there is no impact of inflation on the budget and we should not worry. Then that impact turns out to be very negative. Of course it is and we are only at the beginning of the problems. If the governor of the National Bank says that we are in danger of getting caught in a Greek scenario, then all the alarm bells in the government should be on red. All the flashing lights should jump on red. You should take full action. As an Iron Lady, you should pull the file and hit the table. Unfortunately, that is not happening. On the dossier of vaccines, you also said today that there is still no agreement. Neither the regions nor the federal government has included this in the budget. Next week it will be April and the various governments of the country will continue to push back and forth the EUR 600 million invoice. Sorry, Madam Secretary of State. In times of crisis, we expected you to be more serious and firmer. You disappoint us in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u91	Madam Secretary of State, the Judicial Police and the College of Attorneys General are seeking additional means. They recalled about a month ago that they were unable to follow all criminal phenomena, owing to the lack of sufficient investigators. We were told at the time that we should not worry, in the air of "Everything is fine, Madame Marquise". However, nothing is reflected in the texts, so that the judiciary and police continue to be concerned. I have not heard the government respond to this concern. Is the third adjustment intended to finally equip the judicial police not only with staff but also with state-of-the-art equipment in order to prosecute organized crime and trafficking in human beings? Prosecutor Ignacio de la Serna reminded us that some judicial districts were now without judicial police teams in charge of combating trafficking in human beings. In the Committee on the Interior, we were denied the hearing of the president of the College of Attorneys General and of the boss of the judicial police, on the grounds that everything was going to be arranged. Five or six weeks later, this priority still does not appear in the texts submitted by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u92	Madam Secretary of State, you did not reply to the comments on investments in defence. In the light of the current situation, it is important to take a brief look at this. In the media we read the amount of EUR 1 billion. In my speech I referred to the link with budgetary control. This means that the government wants to spend an additional EUR 1 billion this year. After all, we are talking about budgetary control 2022. If one billion is linked to this, there will be additional Defence expenditure of EUR 1 billion in 2022. Is that right? In the media it seems to be insinuated that it is about one-off investments and not re-current expenditure. On the basis of the agreed route, you will not reach the 2% standard by 2030. To achieve this, whether or not in a build-up scenario, a further 2 to 2.5 billion per year is needed, on top of what has already been promised. 1 billion isn't 2.5. One billion is certainly not a recurring 2.5 billion. Are we talking here about one-off investments or an incentive to re-current expenditure? If the government makes such decisions, communicates and brings them to NATO level, there will be some idea of exactly what will happen to that 1 billion. The Prime Minister has clearly indicated that he will communicate the decisions on NATO today and tomorrow. What will happen to it must certainly be clear if it is to be a budgetary control, if it is to be spent this year and if it is to be effective in terms of investment. What exactly will happen to these resources? How are they deployed? What file is on the table for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u93	Mrs Matz, I know the question, and I know that there is this request. But this will be part of budgetary control. We'll see. There are requests for extra budgets, for different bodies... you understand me. We will examine this in the context of budgetary control. There are many things on the table that need to be discussed. But you really have to talk to the minister in charge. The budget for living wages is very difficult to estimate. It is believed that 150,000 to 295,000 refugees could come here during the conflict. Of course, it is impossible to know how long these refugees will stay here. We're currently investigating all the hypotheses to determine some sort of matrix. For the first few months, we have already made the sum of the costs, and this is EUR 800 million for the entire crisis. The costs related to the living wage itself have yet to be calculated. The OMCWs have already received information on the modalities of these living wages and how much funding is provided for them. Of course, it depends on the final number of refugees and their length of stay. We are currently working on these estimates and calculations. It will be taken into account during budgetary control, but unfortunately I cannot mention the amount for the time being. However, it seems clear that it is about hundreds of millions. As regards investments in defence, I can tell you that a total of one billion will be spent in 2022, 2023 and 2024 together, of which 450 million will be spent this year. This will, of course, also be further developed during budgetary control, and this will also be included in budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u94	One-time investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u95	I am not aware of all the details, so I will not answer questions about matters that I am not or are not sufficiently aware of. I think you'd better ask Minister Dedonder your question about the specific investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u96	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to return to what you said about living wages. Are you prepared to share that matrix with Parliament so that we can understand these figures? That seems to us to be particularly useful. Does the government ever discuss the idea of giving these people a separate social status? On the basis of the calculations made by Mr Vld, as Secretary of State for the Budget, you should know that 200,000 Ukrainians who receive an average of EUR 1,000 living wages represent a cost of EUR 2.4 billion for the budget per year. How are we gonna pay for that? We have negotiated for weeks, even almost months, a reduction in VAT on gas, which costs the budget EUR 400 million. Now EUR 2.4 billion is being spent in a few days. I'm gonna ask myself some questions about that. It is therefore important for the Committee on Finance and the Budget to see the figures. I would also like an answer to the question of whether the government is following the thinking, as proposed by Mr Vandenput, in order to create a separate social status for Ukrainian refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u97	We're working on the different hypotheses. At present we do not have a real matrix, or what should go on, and the cost. You know that I am in favour of transparency, so if that data is there, I will share it, I have absolutely no problem with that. These data will also be included in budgetary control, so you will also be able to hear them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u98	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u99	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2523/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2523/3) The bill has 6 articles, as well as tables in the annex. The draft law contains 6 articles, as well as tables in annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article and the annexed tables as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment retained, the article retained and the annexed tables, as well as on the whole, will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u101	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: Kris Verduyckt, Melissa Depraetere, Mélissa Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u102	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2486/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2486/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The reporter is Ms. de Laveleye, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u103	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the author of this proposal, Mr Verduyckt, for presenting the text. As I said in committee, we are very much in favour of the underlying idea and we will vote in favour of the proposal. Allow me to repeat the nuance that the file deserves. For the sake of clarity, that is not insignificant. During the very interesting hearing in committee on the proposal, the representative of the CITES cell at the Federal Environmental Inspection, experts who are in reality every day and know what they are talking about, expressed the fear that the ban requested, which is inspired by the very best intentions, might have the opposite effect in some cases and for certain species. It is not new that we would have preferred to have seen this concern more clearly expressed in the text. However, we remain sensitive to the issue of animal welfare. Those who have not followed the committee debates recall our previous legislative initiative under the ivory law, our proposal for a resolution on brousse meat, which is on the committee's table, and our proposal for a resolution on palm oil, which has now been adopted in plenary session, not to mention the very strong animal welfare policy that Flemish Minister Weyts has been pursuing for years. In short, even if we insist that the government take into account the nuance of CITES cell in the hearing when drawing up and implementing concrete policies in response to the requests contained in the resolution proposal, we support this proposal for a resolution. I think I have interpreted our point of view with sufficient nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u104	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the final stage of a motion for a resolution that has been debated for many months. In fact, at the outset, it was a bill which eventually became a motion for a resolution to put an end to the importation into our country of animal hunting trophies which are recognised as having to be protected by European and international legislation. I should not remind you of the context in which this motion for a resolution is brought forward by our colleague, Kris Verduyckt. This is, of course, the collapse of our biodiversity. Since 1970, the population of vertebrates, including mammals, birds, fish, reptiles and amphibians, has decreased by 68%. It is therefore time to pursue a range of policies aimed at protecting biodiversity. The narrowing of natural habitats, as well as illegal trade and poaching, are the sources of the collapse of the populations of animals directly affected by this motion for a resolution. As such, it is obvious. Despite the fact that this is obvious, we have been confronted, at the hearings that we have been able to have or, in any case, opinions given by the various experts, with certain questions which have been evacuated quite quickly. We wondered whether this type of resolution could contribute, for example, to a reduction in the incomes of the populations of the predominantly African countries, which are directly concerned. However, we were very quickly able to demonstrate that this would not be the case, that the importation of hunting trophies did not bring decent incomes to the people of those countries. There was some doubt as to whether trophy hunting was a useful way to regulate wildlife populations. I would like to point out that this is about endangered animals and that, in doing so, this kind of argument is not appropriate. I would also like to point out that a bill was on the table. Our group considered this interesting because some countries have moved forward with bills to simply ban the importation of hunting trophies into their territory. As ecologists, we thought that such a bill could have come to fruition in our country. Finally, this was not possible, but on the initiative of Vooruit's colleagues, we have changed our strategy and we are asking the government not to give any more authorization to import trophies. Of course, we support this proposal. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this text is widely supported by the Belgian population. An Ipsos poll conducted in December 2020 shows that 91% of Belgians are opposed to trophy hunting and 88% are in favour of a ban on the importation of trophies from the most endangered animal species. I would add that our federal Minister of the Environment, Mrs Khattabi, has already expressed her full support for this resolution and has pledged to respond favourably to our request here and no longer to issue official import authorizations for the species referred to in the resolution. We are very pleased to support Vooruit's colleagues with this resolution. Finally, we welcome the intensive work of expertise that has been carried out by civil society in recent months to lead to the vote on this proposal this evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very proud to present you with your support for this important text, which has already received the approval of the members of the Climate Committee and which is aimed at banning the importation of trophies for hunting endangered species on Belgian territory. To begin with, two questions: Is it normal today, in 2022, for dead animals to still be imported into our territory, and then to be exposed to our territory? Is it normal today, in 2022, for trophies of lions, polar bears or elephants to be imported and exhibited in our territory? Nature needs us, nature needs humanity. To ban the importation of hunting trophies is to put an end to practices of another time. And to land on this text today may be to act, beyond the successive crises that have occurred since the beginning of this legislature, on a fundamental issue of preserving our biodiversity which, if we do not act today, could one day be in crisis. To illustrate my point, I would like to remind you of a few figures. First of all, 2,970: this is the number of endangered animal species in Africa; 15,000: this is the amount of hunting trophies from protected species imported into the European Union between 2014 and 2018, i.e. about eight per day; 73: this is the number of different protected species imported during the same period; 91: this is the percentage of Belgians who favour, if not very favourable, the ban on importing all forms of hunting trophies, according to a poll carried out in 2020 among our fellow citizens. This set of figures provides us with a striking overview of the extent of the problem of importing hunting trophies into Europe and, in general, of cynegetic tourism on the African continent, a continent whose rich biodiversity is now particularly at risk. As we know, human activities affect the biodiversity of our planet. While some of these activities indirectly impact wildlife, this is certainly not the case with hunting for animal trophies. This phenomenon has been fully involved in the decline of elephants and black rhinoceros or in the extinction of certain animal species. Many other species are still the subject of leisure trips to slaughter animal species and export their remains: the antelope, elephant, lion, leopard, cheetah or rhinoceros, as many species show a growing demographic trend according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. It should be added that these particularly perverse effects of trophy hunting can be seen. An example is the phenomenon of caned hunting. In South Africa, eight million lions are reared in captivity to be hunted and slaughtered. Between 2008 and 2012, of the 1,400 lion trophies imported into Europe, about 1,000 of them came from farms, or almost 70%. The rearing of these lions is generally carried out in deplorable conditions. These animals are dedicated only to one end, being slaughtered and providing remains that make some of them proud. For our group, endangered species must be protected. We must act to preserve biodiversity and stop the animal suffering associated with this phenomenon. We know that several initiatives to ban the award of hunting trophies have been carried out by member countries of the European Union. Let us mention here in particular the decision taken in 2016 by the Dutch Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs no longer to grant import licences for species hunting trophies corresponding precisely to those concerned by our motion for a resolution. Between 2013 and 2018, there were no fewer than 350 hunting trophies imported into Belgium, or about 60 permits per year. This gives us an overview of the imports that could be avoided if such an initiative were implemented in our country, if our proposal were adopted. We need to act. We hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will give this text the appropriate treatment. Finally, I would like to thank the excellent colleague Kris Verduyckt for his tenacity and his involvement in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u106	Mr Verduyckt, excellent collégue, we have read and studied this resolution again over the last few days and finally made a final assessment. We will make you happy, it will again become Kris unanimous or unanimous Kris, as you choose. However, you can still civilize, refine and improve your resolution. We have tabled another amendment which I shall return to later. Although this resolution deals with an import ban on trophies, we realise that it bathes in the issues of biodiversity and ethics. We have just heard this in Mrs Hanus's speech, which unfortunately does not want to listen to me, but quite aside. I did buy her book, though. In the end, Mr Verduyckt, today is again about ethics and hunting. You always say that it is only about the import ban, but it is also about yacht tourism. You may not believe it, but even I, of the maled Flemish Interest, have been contacted by lobbyists in the run-up to the commission of your original bill. However, it was not the supporters of hunting tourism who contacted me but representatives of animal rights organisations. I must say, as an animal friend, I felt emotionally attracted. The discussion also concerned more than the legal organisation of a ban on the import of game trophies from certain endangered species. It was mainly about what Mrs Hanus said here and what Mrs de Laveleye also presented, namely the immoral nature of yacht tourism. Thierry's gonna love that. I am honest, Mr Verduyckt, you know that. Since I was not familiar at the time with the points and commas of the CITES Convention and the procedures in force, I promised the support of our group. That support will eventually be given today, but I would like to reconstruct the history of my thinking. We were given the opportunity of your original bill, a resolution today, with hearings in committee. What I heard at the hearings made me doubt. I saw all the heads of activists there on video. There was one institution that made comments, namely the CITES cell of the FPS Public Health. He was really talking about your proposal to ban imports. Everyone else talked about yacht tourism in the long and wide, for minutes, even an hour and a half, including from South Africa. I was wondering what the hell I was doing. I thought it was about Kris Verduyckt's bill and suddenly I was in a totally different setting. That bothered me. By nature, don't get me wrong, I'm not an activist or an emopolitan. I don't really fit in with politics, I know. I'll tell you myself before anyone thinks so. Think of Mr Rousseau. Of course, there was no alternative but to invite those who were familiar with the import of trophies and CITES. That was, of course, the CITES cell. So to speak, so to speak. That lady came to ruin the activist party a bit, because she wasn't immediately warmed up before the bill. Why not? In fact, the legislative proposal clearly showed no confidence in the tailor-made approach that prevails in the current way of working. We know that the remaining forms of hunting tourism are highly regulated. There are sufficient legal possibilities today to intervene if there would be negative effects on the survival of the species. However, what was the response of most committee members to the CITES cell's vision? One witnessed wonder, surprise. After all, one had to be polite. The CITES cell sent a clear background text, but of course it remained in the drawer of the colleagues. Then came the Council of State, which legally referred your proposal to the wastebasket, Mr Verduyckt. The Council of State pointed out in its opinion that the procedures for importing, exporting and transiting game trophies provided for in Articles 4 and 5 of the European Regulation cannot be amended by national law. Ambitant, isn't it, Kris, the European Union? However, Mr Verduyckt is a biter, he is the Clinton Mata of Parliament and of Vooruit. One can hardly pass him and he keeps going 90 minutes for it. He always returns, and so there was this resolution. At that time, a sort of political nature law took place in this Parliament full of ideologically motivated people. The legal-technical blocking by the Council of State was bypassed by the choice of a resolution. So far I was able to follow, but what I liked less was the fact that the well-founded vision of the CITES cell was completely ignored. Selectively ignoring is a political law of nature and almost unique to this House when difficult matters from reality do not serve the ideological framework. Even the EU will have to die for the otherwise EU-minded colleagues. Firstly, it ignores the fact that regulated hunting tourism takes place for the EU in the range of possible conservation measures provided that certain conditions are met. Secondly, it is ignored that import licences are currently only issued after it has been examined whether imports into the EU of that particular species associated with a specific country do not pose a threat to the survival of the wild population. For example, the country of origin should issue a CITES export licence, which is only possible if that country has properly checked that exports do not harm the population of the species concerned and are therefore managed sustainably. It is therefore necessary to work with quotas, which are scientifically validated by the EU. These quotas are not set by the exporting countries, but by the Triennial CITES Conference. Thirdly, the loss of income for the local population by making yacht tourism unattractive is ignored. That discussion has not been resolved, contrary to what Mrs Hanus had to do here. I refer to our amendment in which we say very clearly in the accountability that there is at least...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u107	Mr Ravyts, I'm going to interrupt the laudatio to clarify a few things. You say that we are ignoring a number of things that the CITES cell has put forward. For the sake of clarity, I also asked a question on this in committee. CITES is an international convention signed by more than 180 countries. When one looks at these texts, one feels that they are an international compromise. If scientists were to be asked what can be done best with endangered species... that's what it's about, but I don't want to turn it into an embellishment. The world population has said which are the most endangered species on our planet, and just after that we would still allow trophies hunting. I am convinced that it would be scientific advice not to do so. I have asked the CITES administration the clear question of whether a country can be stricter than the treaty it signed, on which I was told that this can be done perfectly. However, it turned out that Europe has incorporated CITES into European legislation, so that we cannot change national legislation. The United Kingdom does not suffer from this anymore today and has even announced stricter legislation than what we are proposing today. For the record, I do not work for a Bexit, I prefer to stay with the European Union. It is annoying to note that countries such as the Netherlands and France go beyond what was agreed in the CITES Convention. I asked the question, it is allowed and we will do so. The debate on income you have mentioned is indeed crucial. A counter example is given for each example. My point is that we just have to go for another model. We can do that by evolution, rather than by revolution by suddenly stopping. The signal we send with the adoption of this resolution is important. Again, the CITES administration has indeed said that countries can go further. That's what I'm proposing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u108	Thank you, Mr Verduyckt, for your intervention. I did not say anything about the CITES cell calling your initiative impossible. However, it is not because something can, that it also contributes to what you really want. I'm getting there. In between the lines I hear something else from you, of which I am afraid. I am part of the Special Committee on Congo, where colonial thinking is out of the question. According to the pronunciation pantah of Heraclitus, everything in the world is in motion. The same applies to politics. I am no longer sure whether it was a statement from you, but allow me to quote from the report:'CITES reality is that the exporting countries themselves determine their quotas, and this is not on a scientific basis but on a political basis'. Let that get through to you. This shows not only no faith in the operation of CITES, no confidence in the European Commission's CITES team, but also an attitude whereby we, as Europeans, with our moral superiority, emphasized by Mrs Hanus, the humanity in Africa, in the animal world in Africa. In that attitude I hear something of neocolonialism. That might be something to think about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u109	I'm sorry, but I'd like to respond to that. Firstly, you are talking about Africa, as if there are no endangered species in other places in the world. I don't think a polar bear is in Africa, but in Canada. Secondly, what is also colonialistic is that the African countries absolutely need Western money to take care of their own animals. That's also a look at the case. That is what one of the speakers in committee said. It is, and remains, a difficult discussion, and I agree with you on that. However, I can also reverse the argument. The argument that is often used today is that they will not make it without our money. That's what I think is witnessing a colonial attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u110	Mr Verduyckt, we will come back to what was said in the Congo Commission. This is going to be fun, if that is possible before the end of this term of office or before there is a possible dissolution of Parliament. I'm afraid to refer to that last one. However, our group is, of course, part of society. I heard from two colleagues that 90% of Belgians share your opinion according to an opinion poll. However, there is also a majority, at least in Flanders, in favour of nuclear energy. Then you don't give at home. Again, that is selective action in politics, selective use which fits into your ideological framework. Stop with the polls and the emo questions, yes or no. We all know that, it doesn't work that way. You are a child of your time. This resolution is an expression of a happily positive change in awareness of animal rights. We are fully committed to this. Why do I have the nerve to say that here? In the Flemish Parliament, where there are a lot of animal welfare powers, we are the absolute trigger for respect for animal rights, with many initiatives and interventions. The message was also here. I was somewhat disturbed by the nature of the hearing and by the attitude of some there, but we put this resolution on the scale and it went straight to your side. We shall therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u111	Today we are considering a proposal with a particularly noble aim of restricting or restricting the import of game trophies from specific species. In concrete terms, it is requested that the Minister immediately take the decision not to issue import licences for the import of game trophies of all species listed in Annex A to the European Regulation 338/97. At the same time, an extension of Annex B to six species is proposed, namely the southern white rhinoceros, the hippopotamus, the African elephant, the argali, the lion and the polar bear. Imagine that it is perfectly permissible to shoot an animal threatened with extinction for a fee. That is the reality in which we live today. That raises ethical questions for me and for many of you in the hemisphere. Trophy hunting is by definition killing wild animals for recreational purposes with the intention of collecting trophies, such as horns, antlers, skulls, skins and tusks. In fact, a country like Belgium still grants new import licences for this every year. In countries such as the Netherlands, France and soon the United Kingdom, that is no longer a reality. They have taken action before to prohibit such practices. For example, the ban we are discussing today has been in force in the Netherlands since 2016. Since then, more than 200 animal species have received additional protection. In addition, the economic report clearly shows that economic returns and benefits of the trophy hunt are very limited for the local population. You've already heard the figures from our colleague from the PS. Despite the colossal changes brought about by the coronapandemic in our daily lives, Belgian trophy hunters managed to introduce more than 100 trophies of CITES listed species in 2019 and 2020. Even if our share in the whole is therefore small, this proposal certainly does not make it any less important. The need is still very great. I see the proposal above all as a means of sending a strong signal to the world that such practices no longer belong here. The aim must be to change the existing model and to prevent trophies from reaching countries where imports are already prohibited through our country. Since, according to the opinion of the Council of State on the paragraph on nature conservation and conservation, the Federal State remains competent to impose a ban on the import, export or re-export of hunting trophies, I call on all colleagues to follow the example of our neighbouring countries and to approve the proposal of colleagues from Vooruit and the PS, reinforced by 91% of Belgians who expressed their support for a ban on the import of hunting trophies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is about hunting trophies. That is an excellent activity of a small group of super rich people who think she can do anything with her money, until the decadent, such as shooting polar bears in Canada or lions in Africa, to take the head. That is what Mr Briers said, namely about recreational purposes. Colleagues, this is happening while the aforementioned Ipsos poll of December 2020 shows that as many as 91 percent of the Belgian population are opposed to this trophy hunt and believes that there should be a ban on importing hunting trophies. People do not accept that the richer class can do anything without any ethical awareness. Many species on which they hunt are also threatened. They still have the guts to announce through their lobbyists. Luckily, there are enough studies available that will undermine that. It's obvious to us. Those who want to protect endangered species do so by means of conservation measures and not by opening a market for the trophy hunt. We shall therefore be voting in favour of this resolution without any hesitation, because we share the opinion of the authors of the proposal, in particular that trade in game trophies should be restricted. Anyone who casts doubt on this or raises fog around it is, in fact, the defender of that little club decadent super rich and millionaires. However, we believe that the proposal could have gone even further, both pragmatically and in principle. On a pragmatic level, we would like to point out that the European regulation is somewhat behind the revision of the CITES Convention and its annexes. Due to the fact that the resolution is based on the European state of affairs, the revisions of the most recent CITES Summit that took place three years ago in Geneva, namely 2019, are due to the loopholes of the network. As a result, there are animal species, such as the giraffe, which, from a pragmatic point of view, had certainly been heard in the resolution before us, but have not now been included. In principle, the following is difficult for us to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u113	Mr Warmoes, Mr Ravyts would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u114	You frame the recreational hunting tourism, the trophy hunt, with the rich, possessing class. I don't know if it is, I don't practice it myself, because I'm not convinced that hunting animals is something pleasant. If you say that anyone who misses sprays on this resolution, when you say that anyone who applies critical retouches, drives for the rich class, what are we doing? The lady from the CITES cell says that the first bill, which was killed at the Council of State, did not contribute to its purpose. So you're saying the lady drives for the rich. I absolutely don't understand. That's very fanatical.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u115	Mr Ravyts, you are talking about hunting, but we are talking about hunting trophies of endangered species in which people pay for travelling and shooting. Of course, I do not do it myself, so I do not know how much it costs, but it is about hundreds of thousands of euros. The hunt is another category. I don't and I couldn't, but I do understand the little hunter. That's like football. In the highest division, they pay heavily for that. Jan with the cap doesn't go on trophy hunting to Africa or Canada to shoot polar bears. We are indeed talking about principles here. We cannot understand why this resolution does not immediately support a total ban on the import of hunting trophies. It's purely creative for the pleasure of some who don't know what to do with their money. You laugh at that, but the Ipsos Pol shows that the majority of the Belgian population is against the trophy hunt and believes that there should be a ban on the import of hunting trophies. That is also in one of the recitals to this resolution. This resolution could therefore have gone even further in order to limit trade in hunting trophies, because there is public support for this. The last thing people want is for animal species to be threatened before the trade in game trophies of those animals is banned. Animal Rights Organisation is already pointing the way with a petition for an immediate ban on the import of all hunting trophies and a ban on trophy hunting for Belgian citizens pending an international ban. In the meantime, we will support the resolution before us. For us, it is a first step in the right direction and we certainly need further steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u116	Madam President, as a non-hunter, I have every sympathy for the protection of various species. However, our chairman will not dress up in a rabbit. This is, in fact, a symbolic dossier, as some Members have said. I respect that. However, we must beware of legislative proposals for which we are not competent or resolutions which are in fact simply a question to a minister to whom the answer is known. I would also be careful not to shame and blaze hunters, but I have just heard that PVDA also has sympathy for hunters, whether they are large or small. We will support the resolution, but we would like the hunters' associations to be invited to another hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u117	Madam President, this parliamentary initiative started two years ago when we all got a sad birthday card five years after the lion Cecil died. This case caused a great deal of international turmoil. The lion was shot by an American dentist, which has led to international consequences. A number of measures have been taken in the Netherlands, France and Australia, but not in our country. This is not a proposal against hunting. On the contrary, in my province of Limburg we are sometimes very happy with hunting for wild boars. I knew there was hunting tourism. I welcome everyone's hobby, but in 2022 hunting tourism on animal species that are on international lists of endangered species was an eye-opener for me and the signal that something had to happen. That is why I wrote this proposal on the banks of the Semois. That is by no means the reason why Mrs Hanus co-signed it. I cannot understand why many dollars can still be hunted for rhinoceros, hippopotamus, lions, polar bears, leopards and tigers, and that they may be imported as hunting trophies. With my proposal, I ask the simple question whether we can reconcile hunting tourism with animal protection. I do not say anything about hunting in general, the proposal is purely about animal protection. I do not think that this will radically change the situation in the world. It can ensure, at least if Minister Khattabi meets the demands - that Belgian hunters will no longer be able to import those trophies into Belgium. Such an import ban will have an impact, all the more so because for participants in such a hunting game the photo with the hunting trophy is essential. It is not correct that our country would be a turntable of hunting trophies. Only about 60 licences are issued a year. Mrs Hanus has already mentioned the statistics on this subject. However, the importance of adopting the motion for a resolution today should not be underestimated. The same discussion is being held in several countries in and outside Europe. The adoption of this text here can affect what is happening there and we are talking about figures of a very different order of magnitude. Between 2014 and 2018, for example, 15,000 trophies of protected species were imported into Europe. Our country was a precursor to the ban on hunting seals. Let us hope that the adoption of this proposal will make us one of the forerunners of the ban on the import of game trophies. When presenting the text, I once said that the proposal had the power of a resolution, because it would send an international signal. This proposal for a resolution has the power of a law, because it clearly indicates to the Minister what to do. The Council of State was clear. We are stuck with European legislation, so we had to find another solution if we were to follow the example of the Netherlands and France. In France the ban was introduced five to six years ago by Minister Ségolène Royal and it applies only to lions. I, along with many other colleagues, often find that the world has changed considerably, but apparently not in the field of animal welfare. In 2022 there are still international conventions allowing the introduction of specimens of protected species. For me, this means that we are still too dependent on a market-economic model of supply and demand, and that is not a good thing. I do not agree with the argument that endangered species can survive thanks to western money, because this is not a sustainable model. It may be argued that today we pay at least for what used to be shown in colonial times, but such a model will not contribute to the conservation of endangered species. It's just not right. That's what the hearing showed. Mr Ravyts referred to the many activists. I would remind you in particular of the statements made by Mr Chardonnet from France, who, on the basis of figures, showed that the maintenance costs of hunting areas far exceed the revenues of the trophy hunt. Moreover, the revenue from the trophy hunt is only a fraction of what is earned from photo tourism. Such economic arguments are often used against the proposed measures, which do not even appear to be correct. So that's not a sustainable model. I welcome the apparently unanimous support for my proposal, which, by the way, follows a majority of the Belgians, who in the IPSOS poll were in favour of the ban, and with your cooperation. Let us hope that it is a first step towards a new international model for the protection of iconic endangered species. In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the proposal before and behind the scenes. Its approval is also the best proof for me that action and cooperation with civil society pays off. That's important to me. I also hope that this will be the last time I have to wear my special socks with elephants in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the colleagues who have allowed us to debate the import of hunting trophies. It was more than time to make further progress at the Belgian level in the current international context, marked by an acute biodiversity crisis. The proportion of vertebrate animals in the world has already decreased by almost 70% since 1970, threatening our own existence in the long run. Despite this situation, it is still allowed in Europe to import hunting trophies of animal species when they are endangered. Between 2005 and 2015, nearly 200,000 hunting trophies of endangered animal species were imported into the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that you have also been assaulted by e-mails from hunting lobbies that feel targeted by this motion for a resolution. With regard to them, I would like to make two points. First, trophy hunting revenues do not benefit local communities, contrary to what they say – or very little. The vast majority of profits go directly to the Western agencies that sell the hunt or to the governments of the countries that organize them. Secondly, banning the importation of hunting trophies of certain species is not a mere ban on hunting. This text is therefore not an anti-hunting plea. This motion for a resolution is aimed at banning the importation of trophies for hunting endangered species that could disappear from the surface of the world if we do not act now. It is precisely for their rare character that hunters come to hunt them and then proudly wear them when they return to our territory. The authors of the proposal have repeatedly recalled that imports of hunting trophies into Belgium concern less than 100 pieces per year. The effect of the proposal would therefore be marginal. Nevertheless, we did have a responsibility to send a strong signal to the international community that we are not satisfied with the compromise reached in 1973 during the negotiations of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) and that much more needs to be done today. CITES provides for the possibility, subject to authorization and scientific advice, of continuing to hunt and then import hunting trophies of endangered animals, including those most at risk. At a time when our biodiversity is threatened, as I said earlier, it is as incomprehensible as it is unacceptable. We are therefore pleased that this motion for a resolution calls for a ban on the importation of hunting trophies for species listed in Annex A of the European Regulation transposing CITES, as well as the six species listed in Annex B, namely the southern white rhinoceros, the common hippopotamus, the African savannah elephant, the argali, the lion or the polar bear. It goes without saying that Défi will support this text. In addition to being an important step forward and, in any case, more decisive than that which has been achieved in other European countries, this motion for a resolution responds to the request of our fellow citizens, since more than 90% of them are in favour of this ban. These are the figures of the NGOs Human Society International or Animal Rights, which I would like to thank for their work in order to preserve our biodiversity. However, I cannot conclude my speech without mentioning two small flats. First, I regret that we were not able to provide for a legal ban on these hunting trophies, so we had to rely on the government to carry out these advances. I sincerely hope that this strategy - in the words of some of my colleagues - will pay off. I also hear that Minister Khattabi has made a commitment, in that she intends to fulfil the demands of this motion for a resolution by prohibiting the importation of hunting trophies for endangered species. Let's hope she acts as soon as possible! Indeed, we are talking here about saving endangered species. As such, every minute counts. Secondly, the latest CITES conferences have included new species among those threatened with extinction. We shall therefore ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that the import of hunting trophies is effectively prohibited and that we move from speech to action, but also that this measure can, of course, concern all the species currently at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u119	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u120	• 2 – Kurt Ravyts (2486/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u121	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u122	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Wouter Vermeersch, Kurt Ravyts, Steven Creyelman, Erik Gilissen, Reccino Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u124	Madam President, I refer to the excellent report by the services. I have no doubt that, where necessary, colleagues will repeat certain things contained in it. I conclude my speech. We support this mini-tax shift, it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u125	Mr. Secretary, the mini-tax shift. I will start with the positive side of the story, the tax cut you come with, the partial, very limited abolition of the crisis tax, of the special social security contribution. It was announced with a lot of bravure in November last year as a purchasing power story, but at that time it was only to a very limited extent. With the crisis now increasing in all its strength, it is even less so. In committee, a lot of numbers were misunderstood by a majority and opposition about how big the mini-tax shift is now, how big the purchasing power story really is. Whatever the case-law is used, whatever the advantage is used, it ultimately amounts to 2.3 million declarations. That is what you said in committee. With a cost of 200 million, this average is 86 euros per year, 7 euros per month on average. Those are the facts, those are the figures, apart from what favorite example anyone can come up with to show how much or how little it is. Those are the figures, 7 euros a month. That's very little. Anyone who earns more than 3,800 euros gross per month falls completely out of the boat. In addition to the high cost of the energy crisis, the partial index jump, these are not my words, but those of Professor Peersman, who is the result of applying the social tariff, may consume on top. He's getting nothing here, today. I'm not talking about the self-employed. The self-employed person was originally present in your proposals, but we can't find them anymore. You have said that Minister Clarinval will come with this, but today we do not see anything there. I want to show a lot of leniency towards you, because I know you were more ambitious. You were more ambitious in November. The government and your coalition partners have not given you a complete abolition of this crisis tax. It wasn't supposed to be more than this. We have also seen this with the fuel prices at the pump. You also made a proposal on this in November. And the government didn't want to follow you there either. Once again, your coalition partners have stopped you. You then came to Parliament and asked for our support. And a day later, it was solved. A day later, you had an agreement on the reduction of excise duties on fuel. I may be very naive and voluntarist, but today I am tabling an amendment to completely abolish the BBSZ. You have Parliament's support, and perhaps you will be followed. All crazy on a stick, there's no reason to laugh. We are tabling the amendment today. The Flemish Interest has also submitted a legislative proposal for the complete abolition. It has also been a long time since the issue of fuel prices alone. It's not just about the energy bill anymore. Everything's getting more expensive for people. There is a need for a clear signal from this government, which goes beyond fueling or energy billing. A clear signal is needed, worth more than EUR 7 per month on average. That signal could be a complete abolition, at the moment of the crisis, of that particular contribution to social security. It was said in committee that it was not financed. Your funding is in your budget table. For 2024, you will provide EUR 1 billion in revenue to combat tax and social fraud. Use that billion and immediately return it to the people in the form of a serious purchasing power injection. Then I'll get the tax increases. I'm going to talk about two things. First of all, I want to talk about the method of working. You are announcing a major fiscal reform and I like that ambition. I am pleased that you wish to go beyond what this coalition has put into the coalition agreement. The problem is the method that is always followed. Certain tax advantages are abolished in the context of financing or the budget, and it is said that there will soon be a major fiscal reform. We are now a year and a half away and I do not think I am pessimistic when I say that the chances of a major fiscal reform in this legislature are quite small. In the meantime, the government is continuing to increase taxes and abolish tax favors while doing nothing to replace them. As an example, I would like to mention the retention of the withholding tax, one of the elements in this tax shift. I would particularly like to talk about the flight tax. I think you yourself are not very keen on the fact that you must perform that green trophy as Minister of Finance loyally, because it is a dragon of an arrangement. With green trophies, it's always been carefully blown. First, I will discuss the green aspect of the flight tax. I can do that briefly. I do not have to give my opinion, it is enough for me to briefly quote the expert and Professor Eddy Van de Voorde: "I consider the proposal of a flight tax from the government to be a flat tax. That has nothing to do with the environment. One starts from the amount of income to be sought and only then will one calculate how to pass it on. Ridiculous and pure amateurism. Students are being cocked for such nonsense." Those are not my words, but words from an academic. We can differ ideologically. We think it's a bad tax, but you can think it's a good tax. However, it is getting worse, because it is also about how a tax is introduced. In a week's time, at the start of the Easter holiday, this tax should be introduced. The Chamber has yet to approve this tax, which must be published in the Belgian Official Journal, and you must issue a royal decree for implementation, on which the Council of State must give advice before it can be published. Then the airlines have 12 to 24 hours to adapt their software systems to get all that right. Fortunately, the Easter weekend is traditionally very quiet at the airport, a lucky one for you! Of course, it is impossible for an airline to adapt its software systems before 1 April, as you know. We contacted the airlines on Zaventem. They tell us that they need 4 months to do so. Suppose they exaggerate a little bit, then it will take at least a few months. I'm not sure how you're gonna see it happen next week. Do you expect the gates to have someone with a collection bus to collect 2, 4, or 10 euros depending on the destination? I don't think that's very serious. I bring it a little laughable now, but it is simply not to be expected that such a tax to be collected by the companies could come into force in a week's time. In addition, your tax is conceived as a boarding tax. You specifically did not opt for a ticket tax. This means that it is only due if you get on the plane effectively, when you board, not when you buy a ticket. Then how will the airline charge that tax? That won't happen at the gate. We can hardly stand at the gate with our ticket, our identity card, and then another Visa card or cash money. It just can't be. So that airline will have to charge that tax in the ticket price. But that means that a passenger who eventually doesn't get on the plane will have paid a tax he shouldn't have paid. How do you intend to solve that? How do you intend to do that? One more problem. There are two passengers. One bought his ticket before 1 April, the other bought his ticket after 1 April. The second person's ticket should be subject to the tax, not that of the first person. They'll be sitting next to each other on the same plane, and one has had to pay taxes to the government, and the other hasn't. How do you justify that difference? I really want an answer to that. Mr Minister, I know that opposition amendments are often unfortunate, but we are still trying to postpone this tax, which we are opposed to, but which we know will come, at least with the time needed to allow the airlines to do their job so that the tickets can be adjusted properly. We are therefore tabling this amendment for you. I hope you will be aware of the legitimate concerns of a chaotic and very late introduction of the tax. Maybe you're not looking forward to a very chaotic Easter weekend at the airport either. I look forward to your answers with a great deal of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed discussed all the aspects that Mr Donné has just mentioned in committee. However, there is one concept that I would like to come back to today and here and now. Mr Donné, this is a term you did not use in your exhibition. You have said that everyone can use the statistics and figures in the way that suits them best. At that time, however, we had quite a thorough discussion about the middle class. You did not drop that word, but it is a discussion that was held in December 2021, in particular on what the current government is doing for the middle class. There are many initiatives and many resources that rightly go to the lowest-earning people in our society. The extended social tariff is justified. But what is being done for people just above that category? What is being done for the middle class? The project we are approving today is a project specific to the middle class. There will be a reduction in the special social security contribution. It is not being completely abolished today or not yet. But she'll get there. The discussion we had in committee was about how the middle class is defined. What is for you middle class and non-middle class? Mr Loones, Mr Donné had then gone to Ukraine or Poland to drop off clothes. Then you gave the explanation. You have explained that we will only help the lower middle class with the measure. I also hear the figure of EUR 3,800 gross, where I do not know where that figure comes from. You might explain that again. However, on the basis of the figures, this bill reduces the special contribution of up to 100 euros for single people with an annual income of up to 60,000 euros and for a couple or family with an annual income of up to 82,000 euros. 60,000 euros for a single person falls into Decile 10. 82,000 euros for a family falls into Deciel 9. This means that for the single people the 10 % most deserved do not improve on it. For the families it is the 20 % most deserving who do not improve on it, all others do. The Minister has added other figures to this, which illustrate about the same. There are 2.7 million declarations or files each year on which the special contribution is levied. Of these 2.7 million, zero will have to make a higher contribution in the future and 2.3 million will have to make a lower contribution. That's about 100 euros a year for most of them. This means that 85% of people are making progress. In my definition of middle class, everyone is included. That's not just the lower middle class, that's the full middle class. I take note of the fact that the N-VA and the Flemish Interest are tabling an amendment to completely delete the special contribution to social security. The committee has already asked how this would be financed. It is easy to put down an amendment here if you do not say how it is financed. I hear today that funding must come from the proceeds of fraud. Two weeks ago in committee, the funding was to come from abolishing the housing bonus. Whichever it will really be, we'll find out later, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u127	I had deliberately not used the term middle class to please your government, because depending on which party within your coalition one asks what the middle class is, one gets another answer. When I ask the question to the MR, I get a different answer than when I ask the question to the PS. I had not even raised this for the purity of the discussion, but you confirm what I said, Mr Vanbesien. I say that on average it is about EUR 7 per month. You are talking about 100 euros on an annual basis. We're not far apart. That one extra euro you give people per month will not make the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u128	In addition to the discussion on the special contribution of EUR 7 or 8, I would like to come back to the flight tax. I notice that you do not say a word about this, Mr Vanbesien. However, it is a green trophy, Mr Vanbesien, but you do not claim it. You don't say a word about the flight tax. I understand that Mr Gilkinet, Mrs Van der Straeten and Mrs De Sutter demanded that this flight tax should be introduced until the end of the evening during the budgetisation of 2022. The revenue would be 30 to 40 million euros per year. During the parliamentary debate on the introduction of the law, you say to the spokesman when it comes to finance, we have noticed that during the debate there is nothing about the flight tax. I can conclude from this that the Greens are not very proud of what they have claimed until the final minute of negotiations on the budget 2022. Mr Vanbesien, I have a question for you. What's green for you about that flight tax? You're Flemish-Brabander, just like me. This affects our airport and what affects our airport also affects me. I don't see anything green. Why not? You say the tax should be behavior-driven, but what is behavior-driven about this flight tax? Is there a modal shift due to this flight tax? That is the idea of the Greens: do not take the plane, but the train. I have listed for connections below 500 km how much longer it takes to take the train. When travelling to Basel/Zurich, the train is 8 hours away and the plane is 2 hours away. At some point you said that you would use the flight tax money for better train connections from Charleroi airport and especially from Zaventem. What better international train connections will there be at Zaventem airport, which can replace flights of less than 500 km in the long term? I'm even in favour of that. Where can I find that in the budget? I can't find it anywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u129	Madam President, Mr Donné, I remember the debate on the budget in December, when all the N-VA specialists had calculated that all the measures would save a middle-class family EUR 30 a year. Today, with only one of these measures, this saving amounts to EUR 100. I remember Mr Loones talking 20 times about a few hundred euros and that we would make the bill at the end of the year. So today we add 100 euros to that account, which would be knocked off at 30 euros for you. I answered your question about the boarding fee in December, and I came back to it in detail in committee too. I would like to reiterate my view of this. I also told you that aviation globally largely escapes incentives to reduce CO2 emissions. On the contrary, aviation enjoys various advantages which maintain unfair competition compared to other modes of transport. I agree with you that we must therefore do so internationally. Europe intends to take action. There are ideas for that, but the timing is spread over ten years. Until Europe comes up with these measures and implements them, there are already small things we can do ourselves. I admit they're little things if it were up to us, it might have been more......but they are things. The tax that we are introducing now means that a little bit of indirect external costs are internalised by aviation. That is one of the objectives of the tax. It concerns all flights, not only flights of less than 500 kilometres, but also other flights within Europe and intercontinental flights. On top of that there is a sensitising piece for the flights of less than 500 kilometers, hence the amount is higher for those flights. We hope that this will produce some results, so that the shift to other modes can be initiated. It's probably not enough, but it's something. In any case, it is also part of the story in which we want a piece of the bill to be checked: we are shifting the burden on labour towards pollution burdens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u130	Mr Vanbesien, with the latter you have actually said everything: it is something. It's exactly Green's participation in the Vivaldic coalition: it's something. That's right. You say that CO2 emissions must be regulated internationally. Following hearings, we have jointly drawn up a resolution on the future of aviation in Belgium. It was approved. The principle that aviation should become healthier, more CO2 efficient and more ecological is also in that, and I share that. I don't have a problem with that. There is still a great deal of work to be done in aviation, but the airlines themselves are aware of this, as you know. It's not an easy sector. The corona crisis has turned out to be a very difficult sector, and it is still very difficult. The losses are huge, in Zaventem and in Charleroi. Policy makers must therefore be extra careful when they intervene, and have a very solid dossier. In this case, the dossier must be twice as strong, just because it is so economically difficult in aviation. Your file weighs very lightly. If you want to effectively act as a CO2 driver and encourage passengers to take the train for short distances, less than 500 kilometres, then you need to make better connections. I totally miss that part of the story. That is particularly regrettable. It is denied here that the proceeds of EUR 30 to 40 million are a closure for the budget, which I believe they are, otherwise they should have been used in the light of Green's ideological position to achieve better international train connections. You also had a very strong point and I would have joined your story. Now you don't have me with you. The measure comes to me as a flat tax increase with a green sauce, a closure of the budget, as there are still, just think of the proceeds from the fight against social and fiscal fraud, which suddenly amounts to EUR 1 billion a year. I'm not gonna start that discussion again, or we're gonna end up in the kindergarten, and that's not what we're supposed to do. I'm sticking to my point. Dutch research shows that the only modal shift through the introduction of the flight tax at Schiphol Airport, the aircraft tax they will increase, is that the use of cars increases, so more CO2 emissions via the cars. So much for the scientific evidence that's being delivered. That is the opposite of what we are aiming for, namely less CO2 emissions and more climate-friendlyness. Mr Vanbesien, once again, I cannot live with that. The aircraft tax is not a green tax for me, it's a flat tax increase. It is a budget closure, which has crept into a night-time negotiation. It was then put on your account and added that you could explain. But the explanation I've been hearing about this for months is shiny.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u131	Mr Francken, you say that one must be careful when one intervenes in such a sector, because it is already a bit fragile economically. That is also one of the reasons why the amounts are what they are. They are in line with those in neighbouring countries. We haven't really gone higher or lower. So Belgium is not the only country. You point out that if it is really a green measure, the proceeds of EUR 30 million must be invested in the train. We are not satisfied with 30 million extra for the train. The additional budgets we allocate to the railways are much higher than 30 million. These figures can also be found in the budget. I do not know if you agree, but I continue to find it fundamentally unfair that aviation should be given tax advantages. By not having to pay VAT and excise duties, aviation has an unfair advantage over other means of transport. In this respect, we must find a European solution. Finally, you're being a little smiling and saying that we've brought in something. But something is still more than nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u132	Mr Vanbesien, the latter is correct, I will not say much about it. In any case, I did not say that you should reserve the EUR 30 million, or EUR 40 million from next year, for the train. I didn't say that. I have said that I could still go along with such a reasoning if it is reserved for better international connections at airports. That's what I said. You say that you want much more than 30 or 40 million for additional investment on the train. What investments will be made at Zaventem airport in terms of international connections? The only thing I hear from the airport itself is that they want to abolish connections, including those to Rotterdam. I am not opposed to investment in the train, but if aircraft tax is introduced, its proceeds should also be used for better interconnectivity with the train. Mr Gilkinet is only striving for less interconnectivity with our airports.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u133	There will be further initiatives. Hopefully we can count on your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u134	Minister, your mini-tax shift was truly a procession of Echternach. According to the October budget notifications, the reforms had to be submitted to the Council of Ministers by the end of 2021. However, your coalition partners and the Prime Minister have kept you on a leash. They've been lurking around with your mini-tax shift. You've been waiting months for it. In the corridors, it is said that this is because you spoke in turn by launching your proposal to reduce VAT on electricity and gas. These proposals were made by the Flemish Interest in Parliament two years ago. In the meantime, they have also been taken over by the government. The mini-tax shift hasn't just been waiting for long. So it was a procession of Echternach. It is also indicative of the policy of your government, of purple-green, which fails to make real 'wood of arrows' and to reform thoroughly. The mini tax shift adds a number of barnyards to the already complex tax legislation in this country. Nor is there any removal of barnyards, because the special social security contribution is going to go out, but it is not going to be abolished. For example, the government is actually doing the same thing that all the previous governments have done, namely to keep tabs and wet. Hopefully the Liberals will listen in the Chamber. The general tax burden and the public debt are, of course, slowly but surely creeping up in this way. That is particularly problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u135	Chairperson: Valerie Van Peel, Vice-Chairperson. Government after government we hear the same story, namely that our taxes should be simpler, more transparent and fairer and that taxes on labour should be reduced. To date, too little has been done about this. I will not interfere in the number debate that has already taken place here, but this mini-tax shift, ladies and gentlemen, is not, for the sake of clarity, the broad fiscal reform promised by the Minister. Minister, when do you finally want a plan for a so-called comprehensive tax reform ready? What is the status of this broad tax reform? Do you still have any ambition to carry out thorough and structural reforms in this legislature? Will you sometimes drag mini-tax shift to mini-tax shift, as your government also drags itself from energy agreement to energy agreement, without thoroughly reforming or implementing fundamental and sustainable solutions? The Belgian passenger tax is today tied up with spit and pack rope. She's become a real cocherie. Once upon a time, in a distant past, she was a coherent tax, but years of visionless political mess and lobbying tax have taken their toll. You're just gonna keep doing that. The sixth state reform, or deformity, was, of course, the death blow. This umpteenth state deformity has resulted in a cat no longer finding her boy in the personal income tax. In addition, Belgium is making the most of the world's tax burden on labour. The tax burden on working people is far too high and this draft law does not change enough. The elimination of this Special Contribution to Social Security is not only too late, we had to abolish this completely obsolete and distorted tax immediately and completely. For those who do not yet know it in this House, the latter alone can lead to the substantial increase in purchasing power that the low and middle incomes now need. That is why we have also asked for the linking of our legislative proposal with a view to abolishing the Special Contribution to Social Security in its entirety and in full. After all, our party has been advocating the abolition of this anti-social tax for some time now. We therefore deeply regret that the Minister has chosen to spread the numbness over many years and to replace it with other taxes. This tax has very serious consequences, in particular for low-wage workers. It is levied on top of the personal income tax and therefore ensures that every wage premium is largely returned to the state treasury. This tax therefore reduces the difference between an unemployment allowance and an income from work. The tax therefore encourages unemployment and therefore does not encourage people to work. Therefore, this tax should be completely abolished and not extinguished, as the present proposal states. In this country, government seizures are much higher than in the Netherlands or Germany, for example. The phasing out of the BBSZ could be financed perfectly by savings, Mr Van Besien. That is the problem, however. We do not want a tax shift or a tax shift, as this government proposes, but a real tax cut. I understand that colleagues from the MR and their chairman are in favour of this. I wonder whether Mr Piedboeuf will be calling in his intervention for a tax reduction rather than a tax shift, as his party chairman consistently does on Twitter. I will listen to his intervention with great attention. I do not want to count on the colleagues of Open VLD anymore, because the time in which they advocated tax cuts is long past. The flight tax that the purple-green government initially intended to introduce for short-haul flights will now be applied to all flights. Last October, the proposal was that no fee would be charged for flights over 500 kilometres. The distance was then adjusted to 750 kilometers. Today we are talking about long-distance flights. The reason for constantly changing the measures relating to that flight tax should not be lost. Only one thing was certain from the outset, namely the planned cost of EUR 30 million for the state treasury. There have never been any changes in this area. Moreover, this amount was immediately included in the budget, without any legislative work being carried out. From 2023 onward, this tax should amount to EUR 40 million. However, when it appeared that there were too few passengers in corona times to be able to tax, the number of taxable flights had to be increased. This demonstrates what we have been saying for a long time, namely that we are talking about no more and no less than a flat tax increase. This flight tax has absolutely nothing to do with the climate, Mr Vanbesien, with apologies. The flight tax is sold as an environmental measure, but the impact on the environment has never been demonstrated. It is therefore a common tax increase. The only thing that colours green today is the face of the citizens, our people, when they see their invoices today. It also suggests that the government wants to hit a sector which is currently in a deep crisis, as the government wants to impose an additional tax on it today. Thousands of jobs, especially in Flemish Brabant, depend on that sector. The competitiveness of our airports is further weakened by this tax. It should also be recalled that especially the Flemish airports that will pay tax are not so much the Walloon airports. A spicy detail, confirmed by the Minister in committee, is that the Defence fleet used by the Royal House for public missions but also for private travel gets an exception to the flight tax. Our group leader, Barbara Pas, has asked for the figures of these candy trips, because in addition to various so-called official movements there are also unofficial movements. Of course, these costs the taxpayer many tens of thousands of euros. The hardworking Flemings are therefore faced today with higher energy bills, increased pump prices and a more expensive shopping cart, but if there is any money left at the end of the month or of the year to travel, then they can pay for a flight tax. In addition, they may pay for the candy trips of the royal family. We will ensure that the citizens, who are not present in Parliament, know how the government operates in this area. The text also includes additional excise duties on tobacco. However, this has nothing to do with tackling smoking behaviour. Mr Vanbesien, I did not hear you say anything about that. After all, year after year, the government expects more revenue from smoke products. If the objective were to reduce or stop smoking, revenue would decrease year after year. However, we do not see that. This mini-tax shift will provide a price increase of at least 40 cents for a pack of cigarettes. So it's another flat tax increase. You will have understood from my speech that Flemish interest will not accept this. We shall therefore vote against it with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u136	Madam President, this is a lot of agitation for something that is, in any case, clear. Indeed, the title of the bill is "Bill to reduce the burden on labour." It is a bill that reduces the burden on labour. This is not a major tax reform It will come later and it remains an objective. It is simply a will, however, to reduce the burden and reduce the traps at work. This gives back a little net income. Of course, one does not aim at the entire middle class, but part of it is targeted, as well as low incomes as always. We are not far from the objectives of the previous government and it is pleased to see that, in the end, the term tax shift, which has been so criticized, is being re-used, and we are making a tax shift, indeed, that reduces the burden on work. There's no surprise. It's announced. That's how it is! It's a mini shift tax, but it's still a shift tax. We know that we must go far beyond this measure, since in Belgium taxation is 50% from 41,000 euros of income, whereas for 45 % of taxation in France it takes four times more income, in Germany it takes six times more income and in the Grand Duchy, for a rate of 42 %, it takes five times more income. So there is a problem in our country. We know that. We're all responsible for this and we're really getting to maximum taxation too fast. And finally, we get to a plan where 90% of the income is subject to such a high rate. It's really a problem. We must work on it, as we know, but we must also take account of budgetary, international, health, etc. realities. Nor do they open up much room for manoeuvre. There has been almost no increase in income for the middle class (from €3,000 in income) for almost 20 years. We know the core of the target, we also know that it is the middle classes that suffer the most from price increases, since measures in favour of the middle classes are less numerous than in favour of low incomes. So the target is known, knowing that we need to move towards a real progressivity of the tax, towards a tax shield that prevents us from exceeding certain ceilings. We can't do everything at the same time. It's a first step. Also, I thank the Minister of Finance for having agreed to a first step in what is an ongoing challenge for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u137	Mr Piedboeuf, I said I would listen to you carefully. You say that the great tax reform remains the goal. La grande réforme fiscale reste le but. However, with this broad fiscal reform, the Minister wants a tax shift. He has clearly confirmed this in our committee. Your party chairman wants a tax cut. What does the MR want now? You didn't say that here. How do you see this tax reform? Should it lead to a tax reduction or a tax shift? Could you clarify that for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u138	A French expression says we don't know how to bleed a stone. There is also a reality for us. Our wish as Liberals is obviously a tax reduction and not a tax shift. We have already done so, and it has, moreover, produced very good results, which we welcome – not everyone – for the previous legislature. This has made it possible to recreate employment and it is known that the increase in the number of jobs produces results because, of course, when people are at work, they contribute and pay taxes. We are in favour of a clear and clear tax reduction. Now we'll have to see what the room for manoeuvre is. We don't bleed a stone. The tax shift, in our view, can only be achieved through taxation that will really target the highest incomes and not the incomes of the middle classes. I have nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u139	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a tax shift worth EUR 300 million, the result of the budgetary negotiations at the end of last year. That tax shift is made up of two parts. On the one hand, there is a tax cut and I would like to thank you for having put this on the table during the budget negotiations. On the other hand, there is the compensation for that tax reduction. When a tax shift is done, a number of principles are applied. The principles that are used here are principles that many people can count on. On the one hand, we are taking the step towards reducing the burden on labour, something which we all support, bearing in mind the discussions in committee, but which was also suggested and recommended by the Supreme Court of Finance. Work must be rewarded and must not be punished. When making a promotion, one must also see the advantages of brands in the wallet. On the other hand, there are the compensations, which I shall briefly comment on. These reforms are common sense and this tax shift is based on the system used by the previous government. Let me touch on the tax reduction, on the phasing out of the special contribution to social security. This is part of the complex system of taxation and the tax burden that we know. These are matters that we absolutely want to address. CD&V wants those who work, become active or promote to make net progress. The special contribution to social security is actually an outdated system. The limits have never been indexed and the pressure has slowly shifted. That is certainly something that needs to be addressed. What is in this tax shift is a first step, with 300 million euros. That's what makes people move forward and stop the promotional fall. If you look at the figures, you can see that 88 percent of the people have an advantage. The Minister said the same in committee. It is a first step towards the total abolition of the special contribution. Of course, there are also compensations which are found in a number of areas, such as excise duties, but also in the reform of the exemption from the levying of farm levies. In itself, this is an important system, a lever that is of great economic importance to businesses, but what is in store is a reform of it to tackle certain abuses. That does not just fall out of the sky, but is a result of spending reviews, the analysis report of the Court of Auditors that made a number of comments. That is why, for example, there is a minimum rate for the shift and night premiums, and I think that this is an important step away from artificially increasing the company's tax rate in order to obtain a greater exemption, something which is reportedly also often done in the middle of football. In doing so, we are involved in dealing with the football dossier "RSZ," money laundering, real estate agents and fiscal reform. Removing the artificial increase in company tax is a small but important part of the whole. The last large section of compensation is the boarding tax, which has already been discussed. It is certainly not unique, on the contrary, in our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France and Germany, which also exists. This is a first step in correcting the cost of pollution in the ticket price. The tax also partly reflects the greening of taxation, something that has also been used, including the greening of commercial vehicles, the tax reduction for loading posts and so on. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a tax shift which puts forward an important principle: to reduce the burden on labour by gradually abolishing the special contribution to social security and, on the other hand, to complete the tax shift. We will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Matheï, I would just like to take a quick look at a point in your speech that Mr Joy Donné made, in particular the question of how this will work in the field. You have given a very detailed account of the fact that it must now be approved and enter into force on 1 April 2022, which is the start of the Easter holiday. A lot of people have booked trips and airlines indicate that more than four months are needed to operationalise this. We know CD&V as a party that stands for good governance, which opts for solutions that are properly applicable, work and can be dealt with in concrete terms. I assume that the Minister will also answer Mr Donné's question later, but I would also like to ask you: are you not worried about that? We're a week before the Easter holidays. It's about an entire organization. People may have to pay extra cents to the gates. How the hell do you see that work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u141	Thank you, Mr Loones, for the question. It's about the whole boarding tax. That's what the question is about. The answer is divided into two points. There is the principle, which has been known for a long time, as well as the starting point, in particular 1 April 2022. Its contours have also been known for a long time. The airlines will not fall out of the sky in the morning. On the contrary, they will know it clearly. On the other hand, there is, of course, the practical effect. I would like to repeat what the Minister said in committee. If the registrations, declarations and electronic systems were not yet available, there would be time until the end of May 2022. Secondly, the Minister has also confirmed that the necessary tolerance will be shown in this respect. So it has been handled in a pragmatic way. That was also stated in committee. I therefore hope that the landing tax can be introduced without accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u142	Madam President, we all hope that no accidents will happen and that no one will fall from the sky. Mr Matheï, you are making another interesting point. Apparently, the application on the ground will be looked at with a milder look. In addition to Mr Donné's question, I would like to ask whether the Minister can explicitly say what that will mean. It concerns many people, including families with small children, who will be at the airport. They are entitled to clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u143	Madam President, Minister, yesterday I asked a number of questions in committee, together with Mr François De Smet of DéFI, about the lack of clarity about the flight tax. TUI and Brussels Airlines, among others, state in La Libre Belgique that they have not yet been informed by the government. They don't know what they're up to. The Minister replied in committee: 'for these reasons, the implementing decisions will also include the necessary periods of tolerance'. What do you mean by tolerance periods? What are these periods? Is that May 1st or June 1st? What tolerance will apply? It appears that neither the travel agents, nor the airlines, nor the airports themselves have been informed of this measure today. So there is an urgent need for clarity and this is the time to create it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u144	I understand that there are several questions about this. I made it very clear yesterday that, of course, that time will be taken into account. In any case, the law will be published in good time in the Belgian Official Journal. The law will enter into force on 1 April. The fee will apply to all flights from 1 April, but a first declaration will have to be made by the end of May. The fee will be paid no later than the last working day of the month following that in which the fee becomes payable. This means that we will have time until the end of May. As far as the Royal Decree is concerned, this can only be sent to the Council of State once the legislative text has been adopted in plenary. That file is ready to be forwarded to the Council of State tomorrow. KB's design was already shared with the Belgian Air Transport Association and there were no comments. The fact that the Royal Decree is there and its publication is not a necessary condition for the entry into force of the boarding fee. Of course, the Royal Decree contains information, including on the registration and declaration of the air carriers. All relevant information for the application of the fee, such as tariffs, and the scope of application are included in the law, as is, moreover, constitutionally established and heard. I have also indicated that a number of specific matters, such as registration, declarations and tolerances, will apply as long as the electronic systems are not available. As regards the modalities of the tax itself, I would like to stress that these have long been known by the airlines. Over the last few months, we have dealt with all requests for information immediately and we have always accepted all requests for consultation. Now it is not correct to say that we are not aware of this or that we are not aware of it. There was a question from Mr Donné about the following. The taxpayer is the airline, not the passenger. The extent to which the fee is passed on to the passenger is a contractual matter between the air carrier and the passenger. In other words, the contractual terms of the airline with which the passenger agreed to purchase the ticket will have to be considered. The difference in the purchase date of tickets does not necessarily lead to a difference in the tax borne by the passenger. As I have already indicated, the transfer of the fee depends on the airline's contractual conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u145	Minister, it is clear, but that is the scenario for which the airlines have feared. You should know that the flights have already been booked and paid for by April. You say that the taxpayer is ultimately the airline. This means that the airlines will be billed by your government by April. By the end of the year, that invoice will even yield 30 million euros for your state treasury. So at the end of May, you will send the airlines a peppered invoice for all flights that have already been booked for the whole of April. I do not think that this is a correct policy for a sector that has suffered very badly from the corona crisis. We do not consider this to be a fair and transparent tax policy. The KB for the flights already booked and paid for has not even been published yet. However, you will return an invoice to the airlines retrospectively. At least that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u146	I agree with you, Minister. An airline cannot base its investments on a government announcement that is not yet clear. In taxation one must have a legal basis before one can act. As Mr Vermeersch says, in practice, the airlines that are the taxpayers will not be able to ask passengers in the first few months. They are bound by a contract, in particular the transport regulations applicable as a result of the purchase of the ticket. That will not allow most airlines to charge the tax. So that tax is going to end up with the airlines anyway. That fee will also remain there as long as there is no technical IT solution for the transfer. If that solution is finally there, it will still cause problems because you have opted for a boarding tax and not a ticket tax. A ticket tax would make more sense, because you want to steer the consumer's behaviour. That is what you send when you decide on the purchase of a plane ticket or a train ticket. This is a boarding tax, which is not due if you do not take the plane. Then what happens in those cases where the ticket imposes the tax, but that person does not take the plane? Will that person get the tax refunded by the airline? I doubt it. So we are not only dealing here with a system that is being introduced very late, which places the burden on the airlines, but also with a system that will still be difficult to operate even if it is cruising at cruising speed. Why all the bureaucracy? For 30 million euros, for a green trophy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u147	It is clear that the sector was aware of the introduction of this tax. If he did not take this into account in the price setting, or if he had not anticipated it in the last few months, I would be very surprised. They knew what the objective was, they knew the date and they knew the modalities. I therefore suspect that this will have been taken into account. Mr Donné, I would like to come back to the question of a ticket tax versus a boarding tax. A system has been explicitly chosen in which all flights must be eligible for a contribution. This means that we cannot levy that tax on the ticket. Tickets are necessary for not all movements in the air. I am thinking, for example, of private jet flights and helicopter flights. This new tax will also have to contribute to this. In this way, everyone will have to contribute, not just the ordinary citizen, but also those who can afford to buy or hire planes, or whatever, to go somewhere far away for coffee, where does not matter. It is about the fact that anyone who embarks will have to pay that contribution effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u148	Mr Minister, this government is therefore fully committed to its own reasoning. You need to explain to me how the environment will improve by returning an invoice of EUR 30 million, even EUR 40 million next year, to the affected aviation sector in this country. You need to explain to me how this will improve the environment. That is what you have done, you have sold this measure as an environmental and climate measure, but it is absolutely not. In May you will return an invoice for the flights already booked and booked in April. That has nothing to do with the climate or the environment. In doing so, you confess once again here in Parliament that this is a flat tax increase, no more or no less than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u149	So here's a mini tax shift. Mr. Piedboeuf had kept good memories of the tax shift of the previous government. In particular, thanks to this shift tax, VAT on electricity had risen to 21%. So that doesn't leave any good memories for everyone. Anyway, everyone's memories. We do have a min tax shift which consists of putting 300 million less levies on the special social security contribution and the employment bonus and 300 million compensatory measures (air travel tax, tobacco excises and exemption from professional discount payments). First, on the employment bonus, the bill creates a hole in social security without compensating it. During the debates in committee, I asked you about the fact that the increase in alternative funding for social security was limited to EUR 200 million. You told me that these were EUR 200 million for special social security contributions. The problem is that there is also the employment bonus, for which there is a social component and a tax component. The social component accounts for €90 million and the tax component for €10 million. It therefore seems to me that there is a €90 million gap in the increase in alternative funding for social security. It is true that the social security gap is now being compensated, but there is nothing less secure for the future, because it is known that there is a law on budgetary accountability for social security which is still in force. The Vivaldi did not remove it. Mr Minister, unless you reassure me, we can therefore have concerns about the financing of social security. Let's move on to one of the big pieces of the mini tax shift. So, everything's relative. I am thinking here of the special social security contribution. What is this assessment? This is a particularly unfair contribution. The PTB would be satisfied with a project to remove it one day. In the case before us, this is just a decrease. In contrast to the tax on natural persons according to which the higher the income, the higher the tax rate, as regards the special social security contribution, is the opposite. Indeed, the lower the income, the higher the rate. The first instalment is taxed at 9%, the second at 1.3% and above €60,000, the rate is 0%. It is true that households with the lowest incomes do not pay this contribution since it applies from 18,000 euros. The big problem is that it has never been indexed since 1996. Originally, the floor was much lower. Today, the amount from which this contribution applies is extremely high, i.e. EUR 28,000, whereas at the time the floor amount was set at EUR 18,000. What are you doing through this text? You limit yourself to reducing the rate by increasing it from 9 to 5 per cent for the first tranche, which represents a budget reduction of one fifth compared to the whole measure. What could you do to tackle this assessment more seriously? You could have indexed the amounts. In so doing, the special social security contribution could not have been applied to amounts of EUR 28,000. In other words, all workers who receive a gross wage of €2,375 per month should no longer pay a special social security contribution. But you decided to just lower the rate on one of the tranches, which, according to Mr Donné, will bring in 7 euros a month, and according to my calculations, 8 euros a month. The difference is not huge. But the amount is, in any case, ridiculous in both cases. The other option, better than indexing, was to completely remove this special social security contribution. That didn't cost 200 million but 1 billion euros. But you had elements in this text to directly finance this deletion, and that is precisely the subject of the amendments that we have tabled today. To explain this funding, I have to move on to another of the measures of this mini tax shift which is the professional discount payment exemption. There is a common point between two measures of this tax shift: between the exemption from the payment of the professional discount and the boarding tax, the common point at the base is the flight. On the one hand, theft of aircraft and, in this case, the legal theft of workers' taxes. Indeed, this occupational discount exemption is a theft of employee tax by their employers. In other words, the employer takes from the worker's gross salary a professional discount to pay him back to the tax office, but he keeps a part for himself! It is true that every time we talk about this measure, Mr Piedboeuf tells me that on the worker's notice-extract of role, we apply the entire discount. Nevertheless, it is money which, initially, is in the worker's pocket and then, mysteriously, finds itself in his boss's pocket! If this tax went into state funds to finance schools, public transport or health, it would be an indirect form of salary, and one could therefore understand. But from the moment this money is not spent on the financing of schools, public transport or health, let this tax be returned to the worker since it is his! But no, the money goes from one pocket to another. It is therefore, in my opinion, a matter of theft, of course. We have two very critical reports on these professional discount exemptions. In 2019, the Court of Auditors published a rather harsh report and, in 2021, a report had been directly commissioned by the government that had said that it wanted to make spending reviews, controls on state expenditure and, in those spending reviews, there were, in particular, the professional discount exemptions in question. These reports are therefore very interesting. What do they bring to light? First, with these gifts to the bosses, the absence of beneficial effects is proven for the economy. Secondly, there are serious shortcomings in tax controls and misappropriation of these exemptions. Another criticism is that a small number of large companies are taking up a large part of the problem. Of the 20 recommendations of the Court of Auditors, only four are implemented by the government in this text, and again, partly! As for the report that the government itself commissioned as part of its spending reviews, it did not even specify how it applied it in this bill. Do these gifts to the bosses really have an impact on the economy, on employment, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Let's take an example, the AGC glass group. In 2020, it obtained 11.7 million euros of professional discount exemptions, thus legal theft from the taxes of its workers. Indeed, it is on his own staff that the boss makes this flight. What did he do to thank the workers he legally stole? He thanked them by promising them a C4 because he decided to shut down the Fleurus factory and he should not in any way repay this aid or any other gifts he would have obtained. That's what these professional discount exemptions are! So the government decided to spend reviews but the balance sheet is overwhelming and what does it decide? To limit a few small abuses of these professional discount exemptions, which will amount to EUR 100 million. What do these annual professional discount exemptions represent? It is an annual gift of 3.7 billion euros that is made to employers by workers - 3.7 billion euros! The €100 million reduction here represents barely 2.7% of the total. Through a slightly more drastic reduction of this occupational discount exemption, there is much to finance a complete abolition of the special social security contribution. I believe that there is unanimity in this House to say that this special social security contribution must be abolished. That is where to find the money and that is the subject of some of our amendments. I finally come to the last part. These are the other two compensatory measures: the boarding tax and the excise duty on tobacco. As you're not going to get enough money from professional discount exemptions, you have to make the public pay and that's what you do by increasing consumer taxes that are the most unfair taxes that are. We know that. It is obviously a liberal idea to increase taxes on consumption. We talked earlier about the tax shift that had raised the VAT on electricity. It's typically that. These are the most unfair taxes. Thomas Piketty, for example, says it's 19th-century taxes that hit lower incomes harder. Of course, as often, there is a political package to increase these taxes on consumption. Generally, there are two large political packages: either it is the question of health or it is the question of the environment. In this case, we are entitled to both. In the context of excise duties on tobacco, it is the alibi of health. But if the increase in excise duties on tobacco had the effect of reducing tobacco, the government should anticipate a decrease in excise revenues rather than an increase in excise revenues. Here, this clearly shows that the objective is purely budgetary and that it is not in any way a public health policy. Same for the boarding fee. Indeed, Mr Vanbesien was in great difficulty just now to explain how this boarding tax would have been a victory for the ecologists. It's obviously totally derisory. It is a fee of two, four or ten euros on boarding. This will not encourage any traveller to give up the aircraft. Why? Because there's no alternative. It's nothing climatic. It's purely budgetary. Again, if the tax dissuades flying, one should not count a revenue but rather a loss in the budget. There are other solutions. If we really wanted an environmental policy affecting displacement, we could finance, for example, low-cost TGVs. But the Vivaldi government prefers to close the stations instead of opting for this possibility. With regard to trains, it is paradoxical to note that the amount of the Diabolo fee - which concerns the train you take in Brussels to take the plane to Zaventem - is higher than that of the boarding tax. It should also be noted, and I shall conclude, that one in eight civilian flights was carried out by a private jet. We think it's anecdotal, but it's not. These flights are up to 20 times more polluting than commercial flights. In committee, I raised this issue before the Minister of Finance, who said, "Just so, we thought about it: private jets are subject to tax." All right, Minister! But let's take a billionaire, for example someone like the late Albert Brother. I mention it because, thanks to the LuxLeaks, we discovered details of the tax arrangements that he had used for his private jet. Its value amounted to $25 million, was housed in an offshore Netherlands Antilles and benefited from a tax ruling granted to it by the Luxembourg State. Now let's take another billionaire, since Albert Brother is dead, but a billionaire of the same style who also has a private jet worth $25 million. How much will he pay when he embarks on this one? Well! It depends on the destination. There are three possibilities: he pays either two euros or four euros or another ten euros. That's what this billionaire is going to pay off. That is indeed very impressive, Minister. In any case, if you want to know what an unfair tax looks like, it's the boarding fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly highlight one measure from the whole package of measures. That is the reform of the special contribution to social security. For me, that measure should be read together with other measures, first with the increase in minimum wages, starting on 1 April 2022. From 1 April 2022, the minimum wage will increase by 80 euros. The social partners have also agreed to include the most recent indexations in this increase, which is of course a good thing and a step forward for the workers working on these wages. In order to make them more net, the government is taking two additional measures: firstly, the strengthening of the working bonus, which is partly automatic. However, an extra tooth is added in this respect, even for those who are just above the minimum wage. Secondly, there is the first step in reforming the special contribution to social security. That reform is indeed necessary. I won't go into the whole history. For 25 years that amount has not been indexed. This means that people in the lowest income scales pay more in proportion, which has never been the intention. We have to get rid of this miscarriage. That is why we will support the draft law. We are talking about strengthening the whole package together with, of course, the other measures included in the energy deal. It is a question of strengthening people's purchasing power. It is also about countering the fall so that people who make promotion do not have any less net left than if they had continued to rattle on the spot. It is a first step forward for us in eliminating an unfair tax. We are, of course, looking forward to this more thorough fiscal reform and to fairer and more sustainable taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u151	Madam Chair, Minister, we have already had the opportunity in committee to make a number of comments on this bill. The most fundamental is probably the one according to which all tax reforms arrive sausageed. Since the beginning of the legislature, you have promised, in a few months, a great tax reform, but you have already extracted the tax on securities accounts, you have already extracted all the car taxation with the electric company vehicles and now, again, this part. It is true that taxation is being asked to be legible so that it can attract more membership. We cannot really say that, for the time being, it is very clear. As we know, the climate crisis is worsening. The latest IPCC report is terribly alarming. It is more than urgent to act to reduce the emissions of our greenhouse gases. This is what you claim to do by introducing a new boarding tax for air passengers, but the level of the tax, between two and ten euros, is so low that it will not cause any change of behaviour in the passenger's head. It will not encourage people to take the train to nearby destinations or to give up travel. It is therefore not ecologically effective. It will therefore be just another tax for Belgian airlines, another tax on consumer purchasing power and another missed chance for environmental protection. Our government has done greenwashing rather than applying the polluter pays principle. In addition, this tax will only compensate for a small part of the difference between the price of the aircraft and the price of the train on short journeys. The revenue generated will therefore not reduce the cost of the train ticket. Therefore, this new tax is just another tax to replenish a poorly developed budget without favouring the modal shift needed to combat climate change. A second point in this bill relates to the special assessment. I have had the opportunity to say so in committee, the way in which you claim to reduce this contribution is perfectly illegible and incomprehensible. Already before, it was a little complicated but, here, we move on to different rates without any consistency. It seems that you have an agreement on an envelope and you justify this envelope by adjustments that objectively do not correspond to anything. We have the impression that half the way is made, but not the whole way. Because we refuse greenwashing, because we want a more comprehensible and transparent tax system, we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u152	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to stress at the outset that this bill falls far short of the great tax reform that has been so much praised by the government, but, above all, that was so much expected by our own assembly for many months. So, of course, this mini tax shift contains various measures that tend to reduce – as its name suggests – the tax burden for low- and middle-income earners. Nevertheless, many of these measures should have gone further. Without repeating all the discussions that have taken place in committee and repeating everything that has already been said by colleagues, I must, however, go back to a few points. Firstly, with regard to the reduction of the special social security contribution, my group recalls that, in its opinion of May 2020, the Supreme Council of Finance had already voted in favour of the total abolition of this special contribution. Secondly, in September 2020, as has been said, you were called upon, Minister, to clarify your position and, at that time, you made it clear that you were in favour of this deletion. The reduction which is planned here from 2022 for low and medium incomes therefore goes in the right direction, which should constitute not a half measure but a first step towards this total abolition. It is in any case like this that you present it, even if we still do not have a guarantee in relation to it. My DeFI Group can, however, only regret that your Government is not complying, moreover, with the Council's opinion. We also note that, according to information provided by the Minister, further measures will be taken in the near future to relieve the self-employed, who are not currently covered by this reduction in the special social security contribution. Secondly, with regard to, this time, the measures to exempt the payment of the occupational allowance, and in particular the payment for shiftwork and night work, your government has therefore made the choice to tighten certain conditions of application. The scope of application is thus better defined, more targeted, without excluding from this exemption the historically targeted target group. Our group shares this objective, because it is necessary to take into account the additional costs of putting into employment in a team system. Thirdly, many of my colleagues have largely come back on the subject of the introduction of this famous boarding tax. While it is true that Belgium follows the example of several other European countries, our group is concerned that the small amount of this tax, as has been said, does not constitute a sufficient brake to allow a substantial reduction in very short-distance flights, known as "fly-off flights". Moreover, it is also curious that the impact assessment of this measure focuses only on administrative burdens, without finally taking into account what is ultimately the essential, in any case what was presented as such, namely the environmental impact of this tax. However, the introduction of a boarding tax is justified only on the condition that an environmental added value can be established in this way. You have to be right: a tax of four or ten euros will not fulfil an environmental objective, since if there are no alternatives, this tax will not deter anyone from taking the plane. Even you, Minister, admitted him to committee. I would be curious to hear your opinion today in plenary. As we know, short air travel, usually low cost, is currently an alternative for many households. Today, we fear that, faced with a significant decrease in their purchasing power due in particular to higher prices for raw materials, energy or petrol, these households will have no choice but to move towards this type of transport for their travel. If, however, a deterrent effect were to occur, it is likely that the person giving up the aircraft for budgetary reasons would turn to cheaper means of transportation. This measure therefore does not provide a structural and ecological solution for medium-distance routes to which an alternative to aviation should be found. In this regard, it would be useful to know whether your Government has an analysis of the indirect consequences of this taxation in the European countries that have already introduced it. Could it therefore have an impact, for example, on the increased use of other means of transport such as the car? Unfortunately, these scenarios have clearly not been examined. It would also have been preferable to accompany such a measure with a more comprehensive reflection aimed at democratising alternative, more environmentally friendly means of transport such as high-speed trains for example. By itself, in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in this bill and the additional information you have brought to my colleague François De Smet in committee, this boarding fee therefore remains in the order of the pure symbol. Furthermore, we note that the regional authorities have not been consulted in the preparation of this measure, although their views are particularly useful in the context of multimodal and sustainable mobility, since this competence is shared between the different levels of power. This lack of consultation was not justified by you, Minister, in the discussions in committee. I would therefore like to be able to obtain more clarification today. Finally, with regard to the increase in tobacco excise duties, our group supports and will continue to support all measures such as this once they are aimed at limiting tobacco consumption in our society, however small it may be. Therefore, my group will abstain from voting on this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u153	Mr Minister, I have a brief question about the flight tax, in particular about a specific sector, recreational aviation. I have no choice but to put this question here, because it has not been discussed in committee. The theme didn't come up until later. In fact, I thought that Jasper Pillen might raise the issue here in plenary, but I noticed that Open Vld, as the only one apparently, decided not to speak in the debate. What's it about? It's not about the small recreational aviation with a paramotor or the big magnates with private jets. According to this bill, every once in a while in his or her ULM, a small plane, will take passengers to take a trip with a stopover, each time paying 10 euros. Jasper Pillen agrees and assures everyone on social media that he will address the issue wherever possible. That is not in the plenary. That's why I'm taking the floor. Mr Minister, I believe that this sector would like to be clarified. Is it true that when these people exercise their hobby and occasionally take a passenger or make a stopover, they will have to pay 10 euros each time? Or has Mr Pillen indeed raised that problem, although not here, and will it be resolved anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, although many questions and comments have already been answered, including in committee, I shall take the floor briefly. Of course, I cannot deny that I am a satisfied man today. The text adopted today is, after all, a first important step in reducing the burden on labour. We are doing this through the abolition of the crisis tax introduced by the Dehaene Government in 1994 with a view to joining the euro. That is not the only measure. The abolition is part of a broader package which takes account of the strengthening of purchasing power, including through the increase in the working bonus, also a very important element. We also pay attention to the promotional fall. Of course, not only because of the reduction in the burden on labour, the strengthening of purchasing power and an improvement in the promotional fall, the design is an important step, but also because of the tax shift, the core of the story. In this tax shift, funding works through three clear axes, which I would like to explain further, because I think that is important for the report. The first axis is the focus on interventions in the farm levy, with targeted elimination of the improper use of benefits. The second axis is the increase in excise duties which contribute to public health. The third axis is the introduction of the boarding fee. It's important to me that it's a first step. You're all here together now. Before you proceed to the vote on the very important draft law, I would like to reply to Mr Loones' question. In committee, I have already said that the fee has a wide field of application. It's also about recreational flights. It is particularly difficult to make a legal distinction between private aircraft of billionaires, some of whom feel that they should contribute more, and private aircraft that are sometimes used for a trip, which is another category. For recreational flights, it is important to mention that, when departure and arrival at the same airport are made, they are exempt from the boarding fee. Finally, I would like to thank all the coalition partners for the implementation of this draft law. I would also like to thank the staff of the cabinet for their hard work on this draft and for all the other works that have been done in recent weeks. I have already said that this draft law is a first step. This will be followed by the presentation of a blueprint for fiscal reform. I hope for the same enthusiasm in Parliament and for the same amount of noise when it is approved as at present here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u155	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u156	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2522/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2522/4) The bill has 47 articles. The draft law contains 47 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u157	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u158	The next item is the election for the appointment of the Clerk of the Standing Committee on Police Services Review (Committee P) and the Clerk of the Standing Committee on Intelligence and Security Services Review (Committee R). The next item is the vote on the appointment of the Registrar of the Standing Committee on Police Control (Committee P) and of the Registrar of the Standing Committee on Security and Intelligence (Committee I). Nominations were announced in plenary on 23 September 2021. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 23 September 2021. By letter of 23 November 2021, Mr. Johan Vanderborght withdrew his candidacy for the office of Clerk of the R Committee. By letter dated 23 November 2021, Mr Johan Vanderborght withdrew his candidacy for the term of office of Registrar of the I Committee. By letter of 3 February 2022, Mr. Christophe Légulier withdrew his candidacy for both terms. By letter dated 3 February 2022, Mr Christophe Légulier withdrew his candidacy for both mandates. By letter of 14 February 2022, Mr. Frédéric Givron withdrew his candidacy for the office of Clerk of Committee P. By letter dated 14 February 2022, Mr Frédéric Givron withdrew his candidacy for the mandate of Committee P. By e-mail dated March 1, 2022, the Selor advised that Mr.Hugues Brulin and Ms.Diane Vertongen did not pass the custom language test. By e-mail dated 1 March 2022, Selor announced that Mr Hugues Brulin and Mrs Diane Vertongen did not pass the customized language test. The remaining candidates for both terms were heard by the Special Committee on Parliamentary Support of Standing Committee P and Standing Committee R on 16 and 22 March 2022. Julie Chanson reported on this hearing in the Conference of Presidents on March 23, 2022. On 16 and 22 March 2022 the remaining candidates for both mandates were heard by the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. Ms Julie Chanson reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2022. The documents bearing the names of the candidates were distributed to you. (25921) (2597/1) The documents containing the names of the candidates were distributed. (2592/1) (2597/1) The ballot paper for the appointment of the Clerk for both Committee P and Committee R has already been distributed. The ballot paper for the appointment of both the Registrar of the P Committee and the I Committee has already been distributed. Since the ballot is secret, the ballot paper cannot be signed. As the vote is secret, the ballot must not be signed. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. To vote, one must place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Ms. Mélissa Hanus and Ms. Nawal Farih are appointed to vote. Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mrs Nawal Farih are appointed to record the votes. I suggest that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in room 3, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. I propose that the ballots be counted in Room 3, in the presence of the voters. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. At the call of his name, each member is asked to come and put his ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to put his ballot in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. I invite the voters from the names to call. Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. The vote is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u159	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mr Vanbesien, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, but I am glad that you are all here to listen carefully. The present draft law itself is not spectacular, it is a ratification of a royal decree, but I would like to dwell on what royal decree we endorse, namely that on the calculation of the social tariff for gas and electricity. That is one of the most impactful decisions the government has taken in this legislature. Last year, the social tariff was extended to 2 million people and 1 million families to help people through the covid crisis. In the autumn, when it was to be phased out, we were dealing with the rise in energy prices. Meanwhile, the social tariff has been extended several times. It has a very clear impact on the most vulnerable countrymen. It is one of the most social measures taken by the government and I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u161	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u162	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2554/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2554/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u163	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u164	The Chamber must appoint the second alternate member of Mr. Pieter-Alexander De Brock, an effective member of the R Committee. The Chamber should appoint the second alternate member of Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock, an effective member of the Committee I. Nominations were announced in plenary on 13 January 2022. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 13 January 2022. By e-mail dated February 28, 2022, Mr. Bjorn Verschaeve withdrew his application. By e-mail of 28 February 2022, Mr Bjorn Verschaeve withdrew his candidacy. On 16 March 2022, the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment to Committees P and R held the hearing of the remaining candidate. The rapporteur, Ms Julie Chanson, reported on the hearing in the Conference of Presidents on 23 March 2022. On 16 March 2022 the remaining candidate was heard by the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of Committees P and I. The reporter, Ms Julie Chanson, reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2022. Since there is only one candidate, we must not proceed to the vote. In accordance with Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I declare therefore elected Mr. Filip Vanneste as the second alternate member of Mr. Pieter Alexander De Brock, an effective member of the R Committee. Since there is only one candidate, we should not proceed to a vote. For the purposes of Article 157, No. 6, of the Rules of Procedure, I declare Mr Filip Vanneste second deputy to Mr Pieter Alexander De Brock, effective member of the Committee I. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u165	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2022, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates for effective membership to the political groups. The follow-up committee of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R will hold the hearing of the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2022, I propose that the curriculum vitæ of the candidates for the mandates of effective members be forwarded to the political groups. The candidates shall be heard by the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u166	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 16 December 2021, an appeal for French candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 2 February 2022 for the term of Director of the Knowledge Centre (member of the Management Committee) of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 16 December 2021, a call to French-speaking candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 2 February 2022 for the mandate of Director of the Knowledge Centre (Member of the Management Committee) of the Data Protection Authority. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms. Ketsia Melengreaux, General Policy Advisor, Justice-Privacy-Equal Opportunities, Office of Minister Vincent Van Peteghem; - Ms. Cédrine Morlière, a lawyer at the Data Protection Authority; -Ms. Nathalie Ragheno, first advisor to the FEB. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Ketsia Melengreaux, Counsellor General Policy, Justice-Privacy-Equality of opportunity, Minister Vincent Van Peteghem's cabinet; Mrs. Cédrine Morlière, attorney at the Data Protection Authority; Mrs. Nathalie Ragheno, First Advisor at the VBO. Ms. Ketsia Malengreaux and Ms. Cédrine Morlière bring proof of knowledge of Dutch and English. Mrs Ketsia Malengreaux and Mrs Cédrine Morlière provide proof of the knowledge of Dutch and English. Ms Nathalie Ragheno will be invited to present the Dutch and English language tests at the Selor. Ms Nathalie Ragheno will be invited to perform language tests in Dutch and English at Selor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2022, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups after knowledge of the results of Mrs Nathalie Ragheno's language tests. The Justice Committee will proceed to the hearing of the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2022, I propose that the curriculum vitæ of the candidates be sent to the political groups after taking note of the results of Mrs Nathalie Ragheno's language tests. The candidates will be heard by the Justice Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u167	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u168	Mr Franken, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 2588/1 amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals and amending the Royal Decree of 8 October 1981 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of foreign nationals, in order to create a separate status and residence permit for temporary displaced persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u169	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of our proposal for a separate T-card for temporary displaced persons. We are currently facing the Ukraine crisis. At present, an A card is automatically given to people from Ukraine who are temporarily displaced. It follows that they are entitled to the related living wage. We dispute that, because we believe that there are better solutions. We are looking at the Netherlands, where it is not given. We would like to create a separate T-card by law, so that a separate statute can be created. Let it be clear that new statute offers protection and a lot of social rights, such as child benefit, bed, bath and bread and guidance. There will also be a limited weekly allowance, but no equivalent living wage. That is our proposal. We would like to ask the urgency to be able to discuss it next week in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u170	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u171	Mr Buysrogge, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 2599/1 on the achievement of the NATO standard of 2% of GDP.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u172	Madam President, I would like to give colleagues a second chance. We had an extensive debate on Ukraine last week and we all expressed our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. This motion for a resolution states that we urgently need to hold a debate on security architecture and on the financing of our defence. Every serious person is aware that something urgently needs to be done with funding for the next few years in order to withstand the current and future threats. Today, this government announced that, in the period 2022-2024, a billion euro will be added in a non-structural way, but unfortunately that is not enough. With the current growth path, we are going to 1.54 % of GDP, making us the worst student in NATO class. With our proposal for a resolution, we call for the 2030 growth path to be adjusted to 2%. This is a commitment that this country has already made. Many of my fellow Members from the majority and opposition have expressed a positive opinion on this in recent days. Today Brussels is the scene of the world. The whole world is looking at us with the NATO summit, the G7 and the EU-US summit. I cannot imagine that on the day when the whole world looks at us, this Parliament would not approve the urgency of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u173	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u174	Madam President, I should like to inform you that, for this vote and the following, I have agreed to join Mr. Ben Achour, who is held by family obligations. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u175	Madam President, I too have agreed to go hand in hand with our esteemed and nevertheless absent colleague Michel De Maegd, who has been held on his bed of covided pain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u176	Madam President, some of my colleagues have informed me that some of my colleagues are not here. That wasn't meaningless. Mrs Verhelst and Mrs Gabriels van Open Vld, Mrs Reynaert van Vooruit, Monsieur Goffin and Monsieur De Maegd of the MR are absent. Unfortunately, Mrs Gijbels of our N-VA is also absent because of illness. The votes of Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Van der Donkt may be interpreted as a response to that absence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u177	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u178	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 16 March 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 16 March 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 271/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dries Van Langenhove; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 271/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Driers Van Langenhove; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u179	Yes 79 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 121 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u180	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 16 March 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 16 March 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 266/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 266/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis was not yet over, or we were already facing a new crisis, namely the war in Ukraine. We have often had the debate here on rising energy and fuel prices. Meanwhile, everything here gets a different dimension. Life generally becomes more expensive. Let me give you an example of food prices. The problem of inflation was very often minimized by the ministers of this government. It was laughed away very often. If one denies certain problems, then there is no need to do anything about them. There is such a thing as automatic wage indexing, which solves a lot, but not everything. The savings evaporate and wage costs are becoming increasingly expensive, which is also passed on further. The economic growth in our country is much lower than that in our neighbouring countries. We are dealing with one of the highest inflation rates in relation to the other European countries. This proves that the Vivaldi government has done too little to tackle inflation and that the competitiveness of our companies is being greatly reduced. We may have to deal with stagflation. So life will become even more expensive in combination with the decline in our economy. This would be detrimental to our businesses and our citizens. The European Commission has already warned that economic growth will continue to decline. The German Government is even afraid of recession. In this sense, I have tabled this motion of recommendation, in which I clearly ask for stag inflation and inflation to be taken seriously and, given the geopolitical situation, to take the necessary measures to avoid stag inflation and to ensure that our competitiveness is maintained and that the purchasing power of citizens remains guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u182	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u183	Yes 78 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total [[120]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u184	Vote on Amendment No 1 to Article 2 by Vanessa Matz. (2523/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Vanessa Matz on Article 2.(2523/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u185	Yes [[46]] Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 and the annexed tables were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and its Article 2 and the annexed tables were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u186	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u187	Yes 72 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u188	Vote on Amendment No 2 from Kurt Ravyts at the sole request. (2486/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Kurt Ravyts on the single request. (2486/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u189	Yes [[16]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 119 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u190	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u191	Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 121 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u192	Vote on Amendment No 14 by Marco Van Hees to Article 2.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Marco Van Hees on Article 2.(2522/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u193	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Sander Loones cs to Article 3.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Sander Loones cs on Article 3.(2522/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u194	Yes [[38]] Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Sander Loones cs to Article 4.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Sander Loones cs on Article 4.(2522/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u195	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Sander Loones cs to Article 5.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Sander Loones cs on Article 5.(2522/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u196	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Sander Loones cs to insert an Article 5/1(n).(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Sander Loones cs to insert an article 5/1(n).(2522/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u197	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Marco Van Hees to Article 6.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Marco Van Hees on Article 6.(2522/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u198	Yes [[8]] Yes No. [[114]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Marco Van Hees to Article 8.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Marco Van Hees on Article 8.(2522/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u199	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Marco Van Hees to Article 9.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Marco Van Hees on Article 9.(2522/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u200	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 9/1(n).(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 9/1(n).(2522/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u201	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Marco Van Hees to Article 10.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Marco Van Hees on article 10.(2522/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u202	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Joy Donné cs to Rule 42.(2522/5) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Joy Donné cs on article 42.(2522/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u203	Yes 31 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 42 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 42 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u204	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u205	Yes 73 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 122 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u206	Voters 122 Stemmen White or invalid 1 Blank or invalid Valid 121 Geldig Absolute majority 61 Perfect majority M. Jean De Meyer a obtenu 114 voix. Mr Jean De Meyer received 114 votes. M. Koen Gorissen a obtenu 4 voix. Mr Koen Gorissen received 4 votes in favour. Mr Jean De Meyer, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed Clerk of Committee P. Since Mr Jean De Meyer has received an absolute majority, he is hereby appointed Registrar of the P Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u207	Voters 122 Stemmen White or invalid 1 Blank or invalid Valid 121 Geldig Absolute majority 61 Perfect majority Mr. Jean De Meyer obtained 0 votes. Mr Jean De Meyer received 0 votes. Mr. Frédéric Givron obtained 100 votes. Mr Frédéric Givron received 100 votes. M. Koen Gorissen a obtenu 2 voix. Mr Koen Gorissen received two votes. Nathalie Patouossa obtained 20 votes. Mr Nathalie Patouossa received 20 votes. Mr. Frédéric Givron, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed Clerk of the R Committee. Since Mr Frédéric Givron has received an absolute majority, he is hereby appointed Registrar of the Committee I.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u208	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u209	Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 118 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip171x.u210	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. We will have two plenary sessions on Wednesday and Thursday. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, March 30, 2022, at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 30 March 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
