ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an overcrowded agenda today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u2	Madam President, I would like to take the floor on the agenda. Indeed, we note that the agenda is overcrowded this afternoon and that ministers were not supposed to show up last week, even though they had prepared everything. Apparently you didn't have to because you were sick. However, just before such circumstances, you have me as Vice-President. I would therefore ask you to contact me next time so that the sitting can continue and we do not have an overcrowded agenda the following week. Bedankt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u3	Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u4	Madam President, I agree with what Mrs Bury said. I let you know that, too. It's always good to be able to distribute our workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u5	Madam President, my first question concerns asymmetric policy. We have had a number of discussions on this in this committee. A number of commitments were made in the coalition agreement. The various trade ministers are responsible for their implementation. What progress has been made? You sent a letter to your colleagues to which four replied. I found it rude that the 16 other ministers did not reply. I've done a round with your colleagues, but I haven't gotten them all yet, but I've got some. The good news is they promised to give you an answer by letter anyway. Has this already happened? Did they give you that information? Did Mr Gilkinet, Minister for Mobility, give you an answer? He very much claimed that he had already done so, although according to your information, this was not the case on the date you mentioned. So I would like to know whether your colleague Gilkinet is communicating in a collective way or not. My second question concerns the ambition that is being cherished in this area. My round of ministers was disappointing. For example, Minister Van Quickenborne claimed that he had already replied on 13 December, although this is not the case according to your data. Minister Kitir will do nothing, although he is, in any case, competent for a usurping competence, the metropolitan policy. Moreover, that should not even be a federal competence, let alone an asymmetric one. Minister Van der Straeten gave me the same answer, although we are discussing Ventilus' alignment. I have received a very good answer from Minister Clarinval, namely that he himself will reply. Minister Gilkinet gave the most disappointing answer. At the relevant committee meeting where I put this question to him, Mr Roggeman asked a question about cycling policy. Minister Gilkinet then replied to him that situation in Flanders and Wallonia differ, as both regions have different geographical characteristics and a different habitat, which means that a differentiated policy must be pursued. When I then asked how this different policy should be put into practice, the Minister said that this was not possible because of a lack of competence. I find that very curious reasoning. What is the state of play at the moment? Who did you receive an answer from? Can you give us all these answers? Can you clarify the reply of your fellow Minister Gilkinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u6	Madam Minister, Minister, I do not need to remind you of the passage in the coalition agreement which refers to the possibility that the federal government could exercise its powers in an asymmetrical manner depending on whether it is a region concerned, a region concerned, or a subregion concerned. We know history. It has already been outlined by the previous speaker. It has been a long time since January 2021 that you have sent a letter to the trade ministers asking them what they had in mind. Before the summer recess of 2021, it was then intended to present an overview to the Council of Ministers. That is the message we were told by the Prime Minister. But, as has already been outlined, the desire to answer is not great with your colleagues. You then sent a reminder to all trade ministers by e-mail on 14 October 2021. The deadline was postponed to 15 November 2021, but we all know that this has not been a success either. In the meantime, we hear from various trade ministers, and many promises were made, but we all know what vivaldigoften are worth. In short, I would like to ask a few questions about the state of play in this dossier. Can you give a clear overview of which trade ministers did send in an answer? Can we get an overview of the answers to the question of where they envisage asymmetric policies? Maybe it's naive, but I still ask the question: what has been done about this? I believe that this was the intention of the passage in the coalition agreement. Will you continue to insist on the hard-earned colleagues who have still not replied? Or are you definitely abandoning that intention? Was the report the Prime Minister mentioned already drawn up on the basis of the partial answers you received? If so, can that be delivered to us? If not, will your colleagues' lack of input leave that intention? Or is that report still coming? Is it still intended to bring this to the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Pas, Mr Loones, we have discussed asymmetric policies in the Constitutional Commission on several occasions, including on 27 October and 1 December 2021 and 16 February 2022. At that time I indicated that I had received reactions from fellow ministers Van Peteghem, Mahdi, Dedonder and Vandenbroucke. Since then, I have not received any additional answers. I can therefore refer to the answers I gave at the committee meetings at the time. Mr Loones, on the question of delivering the letters from fellow ministers, I would like to refer to Mr Dedonder's reply to your written parliamentary question of 31 March 2022, which states that these letters are not delivered because they are correspondence between members of the government. Mr Loones, as regards the communication or letter that Mr Gilkinet would have sent me, I can confirm again, as I said earlier, that he did not send me a letter. I would like to add immediately that this does not mean that this issue is being discussed, including with Mr Gilkinet's cabinet. Mr Gilkinet may have referred to that consultation in his answer to one of your questions. Mrs Pas, you are asking whether colleagues are further urged to implement that passage on asymmetric policy. Again, I can refer to what I said a few months ago. At that time, I set out, on a subject-by-topic basis, which aspects have been implemented or which have been planned for implementation. This can be found in the comprehensive report of the relevant committee meetings. I can confirm, especially for myself, that the government will continue to do so, particularly in the areas of health care and labour market policy. Mrs Pas, once again you asked a question about the possible discussion of the asymmetric policy as a whole at the Council of Ministers. I can also refer to the Committee on the Constitution on 16 February. The main starting point is that asymmetric policy cannot be discussed and viewed in isolation, but is always linked to substantive policy areas. As already mentioned, health and labour market policies are the main policy areas that are eligible and which are also explicitly mentioned in the government agreement. That's what we've been working on. Asymmetric policy must always be designed by taking action in a concrete policy area, which is why it is primarily up to the federal and also the sub-state ministers to give concrete effect to it. As in the previous sitting, therefore, I can tell you that you are best addressed to them for further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u8	Madam President, I have a fundamental problem with ministers telling untruths in Parliament in response to our questions. I'm not saying you do, Madam Secretary. In the past, you have repeatedly said who you have received a written reply from, by letter. You have confirmed again today that the four same ministers are involved. When I put the question to Mr Van Quickenborne, he replied that "I did indeed reply to colleagues Verlinden and Clarinval in a letter dated 13 December 2021'. I quote from the report of the discussion with Mr Gilkinet. I said it's polite to send back a letter when they receive one. Mr Gilkinet replied: 'I did.' It is truly outrageous that ministers lie to Members of Parliament and give false information. I will make that a formal point. This is not how we can do our job. Your job is to control, our job is to check that that happens and to make constructive proposals for it as far as possible. We are happy to do so, but this can only be done if we are provided with correct information. I also very much regret that these letters are not delivered to Parliament. You refer to Mrs Dedonder's answer that this would be private correspondence between ministers. In this country there is openness of administration, and par excellence on policy issues. This is a policy theme, not a personal letter of compliment or congratulations on the birth of a child. Moreover, this policy issue is not only addressed here, but also in the Joint Committee of the Chamber and the Senate, where we have had to pull and drag to get those sheets up. This has to come up, too. We will take the necessary steps to appeal to the right we have as a Member of Parliament on public administration. I do regret that for a government that says it is the most transparent, with the new political culture, which will change policy. That government doesn't even succeed in proactively sharing information. It's not about very sensitive information. Mr Vandenbroucke, for example, answered the question in great detail and went over his speaking time in order to do so thoroughly. I should not ask for that letter, because the Minister replied correctly in Parliament at least. In any case, I will take action to ensure that these other ministers communicate transparently. It's embarrassing. I could go into the content of the asymmetric policy, but that is a waste of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u9	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your unsatisfying reply. We are asking for a state of affairs and you are referring to answers you gave three months ago. Since you are referring to the reply of that time, I can only say that no progress has been made compared to three months ago. This state of affairs is therefore very clear. You also confirmed that the situation was the same as it was a year ago when only four ministers replied to the formal question put by their colleagues in the implementation of a point contained in the coalition agreement. Two of them even communicate wrongly about that, not to use the word lying. Of course, that's below all levels. It shows how keen it is to achieve something about asymmetric policy. You may refer as much as you want to to previous answers, but I will not fail to ask for a regular state of affairs. After all, I understand that there is no formal reminder of the hard-working colleagues who refuse to reply. That too is significant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u10	Madam Minister, I would like to take stock of the institutional reforms in the area of health care. I have the answers to my previous questions on this, so you will not have to refer to them later. The further communitarisation of health care is the only concrete commitment to institutional reforms in the government agreement. That is what this legislature should be doing. On 27 October 2021, you said that you would discuss the method with the Prime Minister. I quote: 'I will at least urge the Prime Minister to define the method and timing of the political dialogue in this regard'. On 16 February 2022, the Commission announced that the first steps to this end had been taken in the Council of Ministers on 11 February 2022. You were then instructed, together with Minister Clarinval, to establish bilateral contacts with the Deputy Prime Ministers, which would run until May, hence my question about a state of affairs. What have the contacts achieved so far? Is there a willingness on the part of all government partners to take effective action on the implementation of the relevant passage of the government agreement? We can see the opposite from all kinds of statements in the press. Have the method and the timetable been established and what do they look like? Are there any substantive discussions about this and what have they achieved so far? When does the government plan to land with this? In what way does it intend to involve the opposition, because a majority in the Dutch language group and a two-thirds majority will be needed? Some debate in advance therefore seems useful to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u11	Mrs. Depoorter is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u12	Madam Minister, you committed yourself here in committee as Minister that the concrete process would be launched by the coming summer after the citizen consultation around the passage in the government agreement on the division of health care, a topic that was already on the agenda in other fora. In particular, I would like to have more clarity on this point. You have indeed succeeded in starting the citizen survey, so that it will be completed by the summer. I therefore assume that your communicated timing for amending the legislation on the division of health care can be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u13	Mrs Pas, Mr Loones, I already indicated at the committee meeting of 16 February 2022 that the timing and method of the discussion on state reform with the implementation of the passage on the homogenisation of health care at the level of the Länder were discussed in the government agreement at the meeting of the nuclear cabinet on Wednesday 19 January 2022 and 11 February 2022. Following this, the nuclear cabinet has given the mandate to the ministers of Institutional Reform, i.e. David Clarinval and myself, as well as to the Minister of Health, to establish contacts with the various Deputy Prime Ministers on the implementation of the passage in the government agreement. In the meantime, Mr Clarinval, Mr Vandenbroucke and myself are working on this. At present, it is not possible to provide further information on this. I cannot give you any further information about the method after the various contacts and timing. Obviously, on the basis of the outcome of the citizen survey through the government platform, the way in which the dossier will be further addressed will be examined. For the questions on how the Flemish opposition will be involved in the discussions, I would like to refer again to my reply of 16 February 2022. Given that a transfer of powers requires a special majority and that the federal government parties do not have that majority today, it is logical that talks should also be held with parties that could provide the majority. However, it is too early to communicate on this issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u14	I would like to thank you, Madam Secretary, for your very vague answer. This time, you do not refer to previous answers, but simply state that you cannot provide information. I can understand, however, that you do not want to set a deadline for the completion of the work, but you could at least tell me at what point you are planning the end of the consultation. In this way we can plan our next follow-up question. Nor can I get the impression that such a vague answer is simply trying to mask that the mood for the subject is much less than for the asymmetric policy of my previous question. That makes me less happy per question, Madam Secretary. I think it's really bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u15	I understand it's not easy for you, Madam Secretary. You entered the government without being involved in the government negotiations, and now you are responsible for the implementation of the government agreement. It is well known that your party's trophy cabinet is not filled with prizes from the coalition agreement. We also see that people are looking to steal the single trophies out of your closet. I remember, for example, the communication from CD&V chairman Joachim Coens that the response of doctors' quotas was one of the main reasons for joining the Vivaldic coalition. The agreement on last week's RIZIV numbers now shows that your party is not even granted that trophy. Similarly, the communitarisation of health care policy is not easy. It is therefore not easy for you to do so, which is why we asked for the power to be granted to a Deputy Prime Minister, so that the issue would also be addressed in the core of the government. I therefore wish you much strength, courage and the necessary file power to send the issue to the government stop. You have our full support for this dossier. Communitarisation of health care is also needed in the field. We cannot get out of it if we want a well-organised health care tailored to the needs of the people. The MR will have to see that as well, unless you want to push the federal government further into bankruptcy and the people who don't want to give health care. Communityization will therefore have to take place and we are at our disposal to discuss it further. I would like to take this opportunity to make a proposal to you. Suppose, after your consultations, it becomes clear, and I hope not, that there will still be nothing in this legislature, can we perhaps make agreements to get back to work on the ground? The Joint Committee of the Chamber and Senate had to complete its work, because the citizen survey was coming and because health care would take steps. So we were not allowed to analyse the totality of the economy. I hope that the brake will be lifted if it becomes clear that communitarisation with this government will not happen. Then allow us at least the opportunity to make the analysis decent here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u16	Madam President, I am so curious to hear the answers that I am referring to the written version for each of my six questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u17	Madam President, I had asked the minister and the minister in part last week. I will therefore not resume my presentation on Thursday and will confine myself to the outstanding issues. First of all, with regard to the lack of accessibility, the site offers a telephone number that can be dialed if you wish to obtain a paper version. That's what I did. When I asked questions about the practical modalities, my interlocutor replied that he was not trained to explain the process. Have the people at the end of the line been trained to guide citizens? I now come to the deadline. Why did you set one for six weeks? It is indeed very short for a popular consultation. It is also known that awareness-raising and consultation work takes time. Finally, what about the award of the public contract? Why did you opt for a restricted tendering procedure? Did the choice go well with the company that had handed over the lowest regular offer? We are talking about EUR 1.2 million. Why this communication enterprise, and not another one? Can the details of the qualitative procedure be obtained? How many companies had submitted their applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u18	Madam Minister, Minister, I have put my questions together in five themes. The first concerns public procurement. I have asked a lot of questions about this in the past. However, I have never been given a complete overview of who exactly received these awards. Which companies are those exactly? Who are they working with or not working with in subcontracting? I'd love to get those names. To what extent have they already received part of the payment? What arrangements have been made with regard to this payment arrangement? From when will the accounts be settled? When will it be delivered? I can't imagine that you're completely satisfied with the worked out result. I can therefore imagine that there might also be discussions on payment. The second theme concerns the Expert Committee. A committee of ten experts has accompanied you in this assignment. Sometimes they get some criticism, which I do not think is entirely right, because in the end you are responsible. You signed it. The project was launched because you gave the go. However, you have been accompanied by that expert committee and I continue to find it particularly regrettable that we should not have an exchange of views with them here in Parliament. I therefore found it striking to see that two of them were present at the press conference at the launch of this citizen inquiry. The press will therefore have the opportunity to ask questions to these experts but not to Parliament. That's really not right. I would therefore like to repeat my question once again, for the fourth time in the meantime. Can we please make an appointment so that these people can be heard here in Parliament and we can have an exchange of views? This way we can learn lessons from it. What exactly did they do? How was that handled? Who came to those questions? How did that process go? Why have a number of questions been asked and some have not been asked? What's their advice on this? The government seems to want to continue with this path of civil dialogue and participation. It seems important to us that we should be able to follow a dialogue with Parliament so that we can analyse it and learn lessons from it. In this way we can find out exactly what the role of the expert committee was. Who was involved? What exactly did they do? I come to the third theme. Madam Secretary, I have read your interviews on the civil platform very carefully. At a certain point in time, you have considered that, during the six weeks of the citizen survey, there would still be adjustments to the citizen survey, because, for example, one now has to scroll endlessly before one reaches a question to which one can give an answer. Is that trajectory effectively started? Will that happen? I saw in a tweet you removed some of them, but there are a few that have remained standing there. Is that the case? What exactly will change? Will that be on time, because six weeks is a short period of time to do all that? The fourth theme is the processing of results. I have already asked a number of times for all the information to be made available. All the answers given will be processed by means of semantic analysis, but I would also like to see the raw data, so that, for example, research institutions can start working on them themselves. In the past there was some doubt about that, but in the press you said, Madam Secretary, that all information will be shared, including raw information. However, it was not clear whether it really concerns all the information, because there is still this semantic analysis, which I will go into more detail later, which will result in certain things being filtered out. Will that information also be shared, or will we just get the information in which there is no blasphemous language, so to speak? We have already asked in the past to open up the semantic analysis. I read in your communication that an automatic semantic analysis will take place, but it is not clear to me on what basis it will happen. It seems logical to me that this analysis is based on the trigger of certain words or red flags. Could you give us more insight into that? What exactly will ensure that an answer meets the analysis? Honestly, I've also started filling in the civilian interview myself, but I haven't gotten to the end of it yet. I'm trying to be a little creative in my answers. You know what direction they go, but I would like to know which words get the filter and which ones don't. Since we do not get that information from you, I am trying to do it experimentally, but I hope that some transparency can be provided on that. That includes a third sub-question. In your communication you speak of a "national brainstorm," which would be "super-accessible." You also say that you are looking for "innovative ideas." Everybody's looking for that, of course, so am I. But from when is an idea innovative. That should follow from a semantic analysis, so I'm assuming there's a whole process behind it. To sum up, I would like to ask you again: can we please know what this is all about? I'll get to the results. In the meantime, do you have any idea how many people have already answered? In my written question, I asked for the details. Do you already know how many people have signed up for each Region? Do you also know how many people from the Home Office have already answered, because I saw that all 5,000 employees received an email yesterday asking for an answer. Also the people of the Foreign Affairs Service, but I hope they will not fill it out during their working hours, otherwise Mr Mahdi's delay will be even further. Maybe that should have been in the mail as a tip, so that some work is still being done. The final point about the communication campaign, of which two would come: one now, and one when the results are available. Honestly, I miss communication. With an amount of EUR 1 million, I expected that we would be bombed on billboards and on television, in the streets, on buses and trains. But I don't see anything. At first, Minister Clarinval had insinuated that people would be invited by letter, but that turned out not to be right. So I'm missing communication. That can also be a good sign, namely that tax money is being handled with caution and that you do not have the ambition to spend the EUR 1 million already. It could also be that the million will be spent, but without seeing it. That would certainly not be too successful communication. With that money, a new Twitter and Facebook account has also been launched, but they don't exactly have many followers. Yesterday, an account was also launched by Secretary of State Dermine on the NextGenerationEU Fund, but it throws a lot of publicity at that. I don't know if that's money well spent. But I don't see your messages in my timeline, but I haven't blocked them. On the contrary, I'm trying to keep an eye on it as closely as possible. Can you provide more information about this? What is the state of play with regard to communication? Has any amount already been spent on that communication? What can we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u19	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking about this for many months. Indeed, for the last ten days, the online platform "A country for tomorrow" has been a reality. Your questions give Annelies Verlinden and I the opportunity to revisit some of the important points of this federal government dialogue initiative. First of all, and as has been announced on several occasions, the platform is accessible from 25 April 2022 for a period of six weeks, until 5 June 2022 inclusive. You asked me why six weeks. It is the duration that has been recommended to us by the experts. It is therefore not planned to shorten or extend the duration of this online consultation to date. With regard to the methodology used for the selection of topics and questions as well as for the selection of the various speakers, I can repeat what I have already said to the same committee in previous sessions. First of all, the content of the platform is based on six major themes related to institutional reforms and democratic renewal. These themes had been provisionally established with the Scientific Committee and a steering group composed of representatives of the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Prime Minister. These six major themes were presented to you at the committee on 9 June 2022. Secondly, on the basis of this list of themes covering a multitude of topics, a consortium of experts focused on the drafting of questions and contextualization, including visuals, sometimes refining the themes so that participants could best appropriate the issues. These are complex subjects which require a certain pedagogy. In concrete terms, this delicate mission has been awarded by public procurement to the DBP Partners consortium, which includes Tree company, Indiville and Levuur, which are companies with extensive experience and expertise in citizen participation. In this procurement – and this was, from the outset, a fundamental requirement in the selection criteria – we required the bidder to have an interdisciplinary and mission-consistent project team. This means that the consortium had to present four key profiles, including two constitutional law specialists and two citizen participation specialists. This explains the collaboration between DBP Partners and a group of academic experts, including Patricia Popelier of the University of Antwerp, Jean-Benoît Pilet of the ULB and Dave Sinardet of the VUB. As I have said on several occasions, in a role as guarantor of the process, a committee of scientific experts composed of ten people from the academic world has been consulted since the beginning of the process on the choice of methods that have been decided. This committee closely followed the consortium's mission by discussing the choice of topics, the type of issues, the interaction between participants, the moderation of publications by proposing improvements in the formulations used, ensuring that the necessary meaning did not undermine the credibility of the process, the accessibility of issues and their political neutrality. There has therefore been a sustained collaboration between these different expert groups, each in its assigned role. We have, on the one hand, a consortium of experts responsible for drafting and, on the other hand, the scientific committee set up by a royal decree of 29 June 2021, with as essential tasks to ensure the regularity and authenticity of the process, to provide support in the content and process and to make the relevant recommendations to the Minister. I would also like to point out that the steering group has been kept informed of developments in the work and has been able to express proposals which the consortium has, in some cases, been able to incorporate into the final document. The steering group validated the content as a whole. In reply to Mr Loones' question about a possible hearing with the expert in Parliament, especially with Dave Sinardet and Jean-Benoit Pilet who took the floor at the press conference on the opening of the online platform on 25 April, I would like to point out that it is up to Parliament, in particular the committee, to settle the matter. It is possible to invite the people they want, knowing that they intervened during the press conference as members of the consortium of experts who prepared the questionnaires and the questions. We felt that it was only logical that they could be present at the press conference as co-authors of the project. Finally, Mr Loones, and Mrs Pas, I would like to add that the consortium's experts are free to take the floor and respond to the invitations they find interesting in terms of their performance in the public contract. I have already mentioned the members of the Scientific Committee, and I explained that they are bound by restraint and confidentiality throughout the process, as far as they are part of a committee that advises the government. They are located for their own expertise within a collective body. There is no provision for them to express themselves on behalf of the Scientific Committee, but at the end of the work they can talk about their work within the said Committee. They also carry out their duties under the chairmanship of the Ministers for Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, as foreseen by the Royal Decree of 29 June 2021. As you have also seen, the questions in the six themes are open questions, on the advice of the Scientific Committee. The participants have the opportunity to formulate all their ideas, without any taboo. The desire for a transfer of powers in one direction or another is an idea that can of course be formulated on the platform, which also offers the opportunity to understand to some extent the limitations and consequences of such choices through the proposed contextualisation. One can always think that the questions are sent in different directions. However, as I have just said, the content of the questions and the contextualisation to ensure neutrality were drawn up by this consortium of experts, with the participation of the members of the Scientific Committee. In this way, we have guaranteed the neutrality of the process as well as possible. However, every question on such issues is sensitive and the need to simplify the challenges makes it difficult to make the nuances necessary for a political and, a fortiori, an institutional debate. When one reads the answers to the questions put so far, which are only the public part, it can simply be seen that the diversity is wide and the imagination is wide. I believe that no one who is of good will can say when reading the contributions that the debates are steered in a political direction that the government wants. The participants have understood the call for ideas. Mr Boukili, first of all, you have added a question to the list of questions you have asked. So I'll start with this one. This is the question of call centres. You're right, call center is here to send the written document. Then the citizens read the written document and have all the necessary information. The call center is not there to do the process of accompaniment of citizens. It was not the role assigned to him. Mr Boukili, you have certainly noticed, with regard to the six themes, that we can call the analysis of how the state can be organised in its relations with citizens and on the model of state that citizens can wish or imagine. One of the six themes deals very precisely with the future organization of our country. If it is not already done, I invite you (I heard you did) to consult the platform to get to know it in detail. With regard to the concept of a broad debate, I would like to remind you that the online platform derives from the agreement of the government to launch this broad democratic debate involving citizens, civil society, academia and local authorities. The aim of this consultation is to enable citizens, civil society, academia and local authorities to give their opinions, submit proposals, solutions, recommendations on the evolution of our democracy and the structures of our State. We are well aware that not everyone will participate in this consultation and our ambition is not an absolute number of participants. Our primary will is to offer the opportunity to all those who wish to give their opinion and share their ideas. Of course, we hope that the greatest number of citizens will seize this opportunity because we are convinced that there are many ideas in every place of society that deserve to be shared on the platform. Therefore, the broad communication campaign aims to inform as many people as possible about this initiative and to mobilise them for a diverse participation. As already mentioned in previous committees, the online platform is not intended to be representative of the diversity of the Belgian population and of the views that exist within it. This is due to the fact that participation in the platform is free, non-compulsory and not limited to a group composed in a representative way of the population. This consultation is in no way a survey or referendum. Moreover, by the nature of the exercise, it was privileged, on the advice of the Scientific Committee, to ask only open questions thus leaving the participants the greatest freedom to write their own opinions and proposals within the limits of the Charter of Good Conduct. Therefore, the answers will not be weighted. What is important to the government is the content of the responses, not the number of times they have been formulated. On the other hand, I recall that it was ensured that all contributions were made public after the report was submitted to the government as open data. You will have understood this: this is not an exercise comparable to the electoral tests of some media at the time of the elections or the quiz that others propose. Once again, the task entrusted to specialists tends to take citizens seriously. We want to take citizens seriously and seek a balance between accessibility and oversimplification. Finally, with regard to the various technical questions of Members relating to the various public procurements managed by SPF BOSA, I can provide you with the following information. The first referenced contract DGDT2021M1146 was awarded to the DBP partners consortium, Tree company, Indville and Levuur. This concerns the market for methodology, the drafting of contextualization, questions and the final report. As I said at the beginning of my speech, a group of scientific experts worked with DBP Partners to develop the questionnaire and contextualization, and will be responsible for drafting the final report. Among them is Professor Popelier, with Professor Frick Luz as an alternate? Professor Jean-Benoît Pilet with Ms Caroline Close from the University of Brussels and Professor Sinardet, joined by a group of academicians who contributed on an ad hoc basis to certain parts of the questionnaire. The approximate amount of this contract is €611,942.38 VAT included. The second contract, which is referenced DGDT2021M1145, was awarded to Bridgeneers, who is in charge of communication. As part of this project, they collaborate with two subcontractors, Raygun, who is an audio studio for the radio spot, and Bonanza, who is the production house of the TV spot. The amount allocated is EUR 1 057 668.26 including VAT. The third market, for semantic analysis and treatment, which is referenced DGDT2022M1134, was published on March 31, 22. The opening of tenders took place on 3 May 22. Two offers were submitted. The assessment of their regularity is under way. Regular declared tenders will then be analysed on the basis of qualitative selection criteria and award criteria. The contract is expected to be awarded in early June. The contract is estimated at EUR 500 000 VAT included. To date, only one invoice, Mr. Loones, has been liquidated. This is an invoice from Bridgeneers for an amount of 605 thousand euros including VAT, an important part of which for the purchase of the media. For all three contracts, the billing conditions are the same. Only services performed and accepted may be invoiced. As regards the time limit for the payment of invoices, the specification shall fix the payment of the amount due to the successful tenderer and shall take place within the period of payment of 30 days from the expiry of the verification period or the day following the last day of the verification period (if the latter is less than 30 days). Each specification sets out a schedule for the execution of each contract with delivable intermediaries. Intermediate invoicing is linked to the prior acceptance of the delinquents by the contracting authority. I also confirm that two moments are well planned at the level of the communication campaign: during the six weeks and when the report is submitted. Most of the budget is devoted to the launch of the citizens' consultation during the six weeks: 1 057 668, 26 euros VATC, mainly for the cost of media purchases. The balance of €5,445 will be used when the report is presented. With the agreement of the President, I propose that my colleague Annelies Verlinden continue with the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u20	There were a few more questions about the communication. The government follows the method of the Bridgeneers communications agency for the communication campaign. It concerns the so-called T model, which means that communication is made to a broad group, mainly via messages on radio and television, which corresponds to the horizontal line of the letter T. Furthermore, there is more specific communication via social networks, aimed at target groups. It goes without saying that the public must be approached in a different way on social media. In addition, we are also committed to a via-via campaign towards three specific target groups: civil society organisations, local authorities and the education sector. Mailings are sent, on the one hand, with the question of how much they want to communicate and to inform their members, residents or students of the initiative. In addition, they are encouraged to engage in dialogue with their members, residents and students, using the method developed for this purpose. I told you on Thursday during the plenary session that there is an educational element and that it is the intention to make as many people as possible aware of the complexity of our structures. The methods used are online and can be used by all citizens who wish to enter into the dialogue. The communication campaign covers the six weeks of the online survey, but it is not always intensive and with the same means. We are assisted in this by the communication teams, who informed us that this method is the best way to reach as many people as possible by relatively limited means. Mrs Pas, you asked us, ministers, to play a role in Bridgeneers' communication campaign. Of course not. However, we have made a short introduction video for the dialogue method to point out the initiative and call on people to engage in dialogue on the themes. That's our role as process organizer, that's all. You also asked questions about any modifications to the platform. It is logical that the parties involved in the design and follow-up of this initiative should pay attention to the suggestions made since their launch. By the way, some of them have already been processed. So people can now immediately go to the challenges and the questions, without first having to scroll through the whole contextualization. For each theme you can immediately choose between going through the context or giving your opinion on one of the mentioned challenges. In addition, we have ongoing discussions with the FOD BOSA, which has set up the online platform, to see if we can improve ease of use. A focus is better to indicate that it is a modular platform, so that those who participate do not have to meet all the themes or all the challenges. We will also ensure that the accessibility and findability of the questions are improved. The FOD BOSA is the responsibility of Mr Michel, so if you have any further technical questions, you can ask him. The design of the platform is certainly preserved. We want to address a wide range of themes and ask open questions so that everyone can give their opinions in an open way. Other possibilities, such as working with multiple choice questions or more focused, do not seem to us to be right in this direction. Then things are possibly too limited, or sent. That's not what we chose. We really want to look for the ideas. Mrs Pas, we hear the criticism that the questioning would be too complex. I replied to that last week. It's about complex topics. We don't underestimate people either. We take them seriously and also assume that one can face the challenge, with the background we give. So we have chosen to make the necessary information available for all challenges. There are, of course, more complex and less complex questions, which can be considered very accessible. For example, should it remain mandatory to vote? Does it make sense to work with referenda? There is also a question about cumulative rules for political mandates. These are simple questions, because their context may be simpler. In the case of more complex questions, we have provided additional information. In addition, we have heard the criticism that the survey would be too extensive. Firstly, we wanted a debate on the future of our country. Then it is very difficult to leave certain themes behind. That's why we work with open categories, so everyone can answer them. Besides, the questioning is modular. That's a conscious choice. One does not need to fill in all the themes. One can do this according to one's own interest, or staged in time. In that sense, the comments are as if people would cease to nuance. One can speak on one subject, or on all subjects. I therefore assume that people will start with the themes in which they are most interested. That way we get a lot of ideas in. You also criticised the platform for not asking the questions of which the citizens are awake. I find that a difficult matter, especially to hear it from your side. If one asks where the state reform is on the list of priorities, it is not at the top of the list. We do need an efficient state to answer people's questions. When it comes to state reform and institutional reform, we have addressed all the issues. We have deliberately chosen not to ask closed questions, multi-choice or yes-no questions, because they might seem directing. We offer options and visions, but leave the free speech to all respondents. Mr Clarinval has also stressed that the best guarantee for participation is to ask open questions. In addition, a few details. The number of followers per theme in itself doesn't say that much. One should not follow a theme. This was a functionality offered by BOSA in the framework of a module for petitions in the Chamber, but since this does not add up to much, it is now removed from the platform. As far as communication is concerned, we have respected the initial design of the plan and have not made any adjustments. During the period of the survey, however, it will be considered which groups are less reached, so that more targeted communication can be made. That's in the hands of an external partner, Bridgeneers, and under the direction of BOSA. There is therefore no change in the design, but one can respond to it depending on the target groups that are reached. That is why only socio-demographic data, including gender, age and zip code, are required for the survey. This is only meant to get an idea of diversity and to adapt the communication strategy accordingly. I would like to emphasise that the data are only used anonymously and aggregatedly. As far as the figures are concerned, until yesterday almost 61,000 people visited the platform. Slightly more than 12,000 people have registered with an account, just over 9,000 of whom have provided their socio-demographic data, answers to questions and ideas. Of those 9,000 people there are about 6,000 of the Flemish Region, 2,300 of the Walloon Region and 1,000 of the Brussels-Capital Region. That information is not necessarily available to persons who have replied on behalf of an organisation because the socio-demographic data cannot be requested from organisations. As regards the processing of contributions and the preparation of the report, input to ideas will be analysed by a consortium of experts, which has compiled the context and the questions. It will be supported by a service provider responsible for the semantic analysis and processing. It is certainly not about magic or artificial intelligence, and no filters will be applied, as Mr Loones suggested. It's just a way to process that amount of data and then it makes sense that that processing is done automatically and not by individuals. That's how the European government does it. A final report will be drawn up containing summaries of the various opinions and recommendations. That will be delivered to Parliament, the government and the political parties. Citizens will also be able to consult it. We expect it in the fall. As soon as the search is completed, we will begin the analysis. The processing of this data, Mrs Pas, will include the answers to the challenges, suggestions and recommendations in the 'ideas' section. We have chosen this division in order to address all possible opinions within these themes and not to limit the participants to the identified challenges. We will therefore be sure that all possible ideas and opinions have also been addressed for all themes. As I said earlier, we are not interested in the number of times an idea is formulated. Of course, certain tendencies will become clear, but in the reasons why ideas are being proposed. So all ideas, whether innovative or not, will be incorporated into the report. With regard to the semantic analysis, the FOD BOSA is at the forefront of the tender. The tender request was sent yesterday and we have already received two offers. We are currently investigating this and the methodology will be developed to support the consortium of content in qualitative analysis. That's gonna happen shortly after the interrogation. Mr Loones, since subjects on the future of our country are extensive and complex, we have decided not to include the contributions on a completely different subject in the final report. It is not intended, for example, to discuss police reform, which is a very specific issue. We will have to use other methods of searching for this. As Mr Clarinval pointed out, all contributions will be available in open data, except, of course, those that have been deleted for non-compliance with the rules of moderation, such as racist or sexist content. Mrs Pas, you referred to the national dialogue on the disposal of radioactive waste, to which Minister Van der Straeten referred. This is an initiative that does not fall within this online platform. This has been decided by the Council of Ministers in the context of the decommissioning of nuclear reactors, which we stand for. So that question is not part of the platform. The Minister for Energy will continue to address the issue. However, we have referred to energy. Perhaps your question follows from this as a theme and an example of how, for example, we will have to engage in dialogue with civil society, with organisations and experts in political decision-making. This is about energy, but not about the national dialogue announced by Minister Van der Straeten. In addition to energy, we have also referred to other issues, such as pensions, sustainable development and euthanasia, in order to draw conclusions or take initiatives on how citizens could be involved in policy or decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u21	I thank the Ministers for their comprehensive answer to the many questions. I have some additional questions. I heard you make a clear distinction between the role of the consortium of experts and that of the scientific committee. After the consortium has drawn up the questions on the basis of the recommendations of the Scientific Committee, has there been any subsequent changes from the government? If you can get that rumor out of the world, it could take away the impression of steering. A large amount of money is spent on the communication campaign. We have now been presented with the T-model, where radio and TV spots are mainly used for the general public. Is it only Bridgeneers that determines which target groups are more targeted? There were mailings (you referred to education among others) and social media. On what basis are these target groups selected? Does that include the federal administrations via e-mails with the invitation to fill out the survey? I couldn't tell from your answer. Both ministers reiterated today that it is not a referendum, that it is not representative, that it does not matter how often an idea is formulated, but that it is intended to gather all ideas. Of a government that also does not take into account the number of times that vocabulary is coloured, the opposite would have surprised me. Will all the formulated ideas, even if they are outside the themes, be included in some way in the summary that we can expect in the autumn? Do I understand correctly that the open data will be available to everyone? And is it all the'smart' answers, in which there is no chatter? It makes sense to make such a distinction. It would be a step forward if we could have all those answers. Does the summary in the autumn include everything that is filled out outside the themes? You have given a figure of the number of persons who have registered and completed the survey. I've heard that the information about the followers' interest in each theme has already been removed from the platform. In the meantime, I am convinced that a lot of people start out with good courage but underestimate how much time it takes to give their opinions on all issues. I will certainly read your figures again and I will certainly come back to this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u22	Minister, Minister, I listened carefully to your answers. You repeat that this is neither a poll nor a referendum. Last Thursday, the minister said it was a box of ideas. All this can be understood to know how you develop, how you explain and how you defend this platform. We can understand that in this sense. But there is a problem because there is deception about the goods. That is not what has been sold and proposed in this Parliament. When we discussed this citizens' platform in this committee, I even had a proposal for a citizens' initiative referendum. I was told that we should not talk about it because the citizen platform was going to do this work in this direction. That is not the case at all. We're talking about two completely different things. For your part, you are talking about a consultation of people interested in the subject and who are already specialists. Do you confirm that to respond to this consultation, you need to be academic? I do not think that a non-academic person can find himself in this context. In fact, they will be the same people who are already being asked for the opinion on a daily basis in this Parliament, i.e. those who are being heard or who produce written opinions, for example. They are the ones who will speak out. It will not be the rest of the population, which, however, represents the vast majority of the population. Calling it a citizen consultation is therefore a deception about the goods. That is a problem. You exclude a whole part of the population. I was talking about the short deadline. Minister, you said it was a recommendation from the experts. Why should this recommendation be retained by experts knowing that a six-week delay is very short? And on the contrary, why not select another recommendation from experts suggesting not to ask open questions because they limit accessibility? Indeed, as the experts have pointed out, open questions limit accessibility. Yet all questions are open. As far as call centers are concerned, you say they are not trained for that. We can understand that they're just here to send the paper documents. But then, who is trained to accompany people who are not academics, who want to self-flag through this effort, but who need some guidance? Who can inform them? Who can they call or consult to obtain an accompaniment to complete this survey? We don't have that here. We have the impression that this citizen consultation is really just a communication effect. The majority of people who are excluded by the very nature of this platform are not going to be asked for their opinion, and they are not even putting in place a support service for those who would pass all these obstacles and make the effort to self-flag with this platform. I therefore do not understand why so much money is spent on this objective. Academics could have been asked for written opinions or their position on the six themes. That would not have changed much compared to what is being done today. If you change the name of the platform and say that it is a consultation of people interested in the reform of the state, I would agree with your explanations, but here you are misleading the population by calling it a citizen consultation. This is absolutely not the case and does not fulfil this role. I have the same question as I asked you in plenary. What are you afraid of by making a real popular consultation? What are you afraid of? This question remains unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u23	Madam Minister, Mr Boukili is leaving the Chamber now, but his remark that the questions remain unanswered is not correct. You have already answered these questions, because this issue has already been discussed many times in the Constitutional Commission, but Mr Boukili was not present. With regard to communication, I would like to say explicitly that there are also good things. The visuals on the website are really okay with me. The public communication to which you refer, in which you yourself spoke briefly, along with your colleague, Mr Clarinval, was correct. Some considerations had to be submitted to the Comparability Committee and the Committee considered that the public communication was correct. Some of your fellow ministers seek more personal honor and glory, for which they use taxpayers' money in their communication, but you have handled communication correctly. In view of the reception, it may also be wise not to immediately attach your face too brightly to it, but that is another discussion. I'm sure there's some good stuff in there, too. I believe that we must establish that communication is failing. I understand that 605,000 euros have already been spent on purchased media space. So you clearly have the ambition to pump out that EUR 1 million. You talk about the T-model with first a communication about a broad group. On the day of your press conference, however, you didn't even get the VRT news or the VTM news, because at 7 p.m. the citizen survey wasn't in the news reports. Something has gone seriously wrong with the communication and guidance you receive if even the national media do not report on the day of your press conference. It was only recorded in the radio news. Communicationally, that's not true, so there's really something really wrong. Then, you say, there will be diversified communication via social media networks. Again, I don't see or hear any of that. Here too, I think it is important to draw a number of lessons and to make a very thorough analysis. Allow me to link that to the public procurement and the answers of Minister Clarinval. Apparently, several amounts have already been paid effectively. However, there is something wrong with the deliverables agreed in those public procurement contracts. Given the result of the work, I think it was paid too quickly. I hope you will agree that we can expect more from the delivery than from the tax money that is being used for it. We'll see what communication will deliver in the next few weeks. I just noticed that the FPS Justice Department is helping you, as a tweet was placed for the 1,100 followers with a call to fill in the civilian search. Perhaps your other fellow ministers could also make some advertising for it. My second point concerns the role of experts. There's a bit of evolution in the answers, isn't there? In the past we have always had the answer here that the questions had to be asked to the policy makers, especially the ministers, who are responsible and that the experts should not express themselves because there is no leader in the group and they should be independent. So we're not gonna hear them, and it's a good thing we don't hear them. Today we notice a shift in the answer. Minister Clarinval says it's up to the committee, so it's up to us, to decide if we can invite the people or not. You yourself say, Mr Clarinval, that you thought it logical that people were present at the press conference to answer questions. Then I assume that you also think it logical that they should come to Parliament and take part in an exchange of views. Fortunately, it is a coincidence that we will soon have planned a settlement of the work in our Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So I will certainly put this proposal on the table again. As I interpret it, this will be done with your implicit support, Minister Clarinval, so that the experts can also be confronted with Parliament and a number of discussions that can be held on the subject. As far as the adjustments are concerned, it's a good thing they're taking place. There's still a lot to scramble, but a little less. I fear, however, that it will be difficult to draw people over the threshold, as you have missed the start. That's what I notice in the circles where I'm going. If the term now falls, people say they've heard it's complicated and they need Dafalgan to fill out the survey. I am afraid, therefore, that the adjustment will unfortunately be too late. As far as the questions are concerned, I understand that they will not be changed. Minister Clarinval states that the questions have not been sent in a particular direction. I don't think that was our real fear. Our fear is above all that they are so broad that no one knows exactly what they are talking about. One can talk about anything that has made things far too vague. As far as the processing of results is concerned, the intermediate position is as follows: the citizen survey lasts six weeks, 12,000 people have registered in the meantime, 9,000 of whom have entered their socio-demographic data, 6,000 Flemings and 2,300 Walls and 1,000 Brusselsers have answered approximately questions. When you reach 9,000 people one week, that's not really the national brainstorm that's put on the market. There are about 11 million people living in this country, of whom about nine million are adults. With 9,000 reactions, only about 0.10% has been achieved. That can hardly be called a success after one week of searching. I hope that lessons will be learned from this or that you will at least adjust the communication. Keeping this on the market as a large-scale, accessible citizen survey, the national debate, the brainstorm, is difficult to implement with these results.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u24	Mr Loones, your question concerns the Thalassa meeting between the Belgian and Dutch governments which took place on 19 April 2022. In the first place, we discussed each for ourselves with our Dutch homologs. I myself had a conversation with a number of Dutch colleagues, including the Minister for Security, who is also responsible for the Interior and Justice, Mrs Vivianne Heijnen, and Hanke Bruins Slot, with whom I spoke in particular about the complementarity of parliamentary and participatory democracy. She referred to a survey carried out in the Netherlands and a number of other initiatives being taken in the Netherlands, such as the further development of the lobby register. Following these bilateral talks, a plenary consultation followed, where ideas were exchanged and many similarities or at least similar challenges were identified. We found that with stronger European cooperation we can tackle a lot of things, including security, my domain. That was the purpose of the consultation. It was not the first time that consultation took place, but it was a long time ago and was postponed further by corona. However, such initiatives are always educational, because there is an exchange of experience and ideas. So it was a good initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic770x.u25	Madam Minister, it is always interesting to look across borders, especially to the Netherlands. I see that Mr Calvo has arrived as well. It is therefore a good thing that this consultation has taken place and that you have specifically discussed the democratic renewal there. I hope that we can deepen that further and that we can make it concrete, for example, see what we can learn and how we can get to work on it, so that it is not just a ministerial conversation, but that it also has a footsteps in parliamentary practice.
