ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have until 2 p.m. today to answer questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, during the last budgetary adjustment under discussion with you in the Committee on the Interior, we were pleased to see an increase in the allocation to the areas of the order of 8% included in this budgetary adjustment. So there was an increase on our federal budget of 2021 of 63 or 64 million euros in total. This decision obviously welcomed all the mayors of the country, knowing that the police areas have a budget which is spent almost 90 per cent on staff costs. Fatally, the inflation that we are experiencing today, with the many wage indices, affects and greatly influences the spending of our areas. Unfortunately, it is learned in the zones that the guardianships which are exercised in the front line by the governors claim that, in the budgets of the areas of 2021, it will not be possible to foresee this increase in appropriations which, however, will be included "in the near future" in the federal budget. We are told that the final allocation of a police area is calculated in December on the basis of the December health index. Of course, when the situation and inflation are normal, there is no problem with this system. It doesn't change much. On the other hand, when, in a year and a half, you have six indexes to swallow in your staff budget, of course, it's much more complicated. Today, however, the areas must do the same thing as they did in 2021. Finally, there was still a first adjustment, I think, for an index. In other words, it is the communal allocations that have to bear the 8% increase in staff costs for almost the whole year. Since funding is about 50/50 in the areas, this means an increase in communal allocations of 16%. There is therefore a huge lifting of shields from all the mayors of the country who believe that the communes are not the federal bank and must not advance money that is normally provided for in the federal budget of 2021. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Do you intend to take initiatives to allow for the adjustment of federal staffing in our policing areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u3	Minister, on two occasions, the eight mayors of the Hesbaye police area refused to vote for the 2022 budget for their police area, not that they did not support their police, on the contrary, but to show the financial pressure exerted on the communes. They felt that the gesture was strong in order to make the government understand that they needed more resources. They sent you a letter to which they unfortunately did not receive a reply. Then, forced and forced by the need for the police zone to function, they finally voted on the budget a few days ago. But today the financial situation of the municipalities is catastrophic. The budget of the Hesbaye police area is equivalent to almost EUR 9 million, increased this year by EUR 400,000, most of which will be borne by the municipalities. The €400,000 contingency fund has been absorbed. Currently, we pay much more for a service that does not change and that is reduced to two men, two intervention police for the eight communes, Monday to Friday. It is not sustainable, neither for our communes, nor for our fellow citizens who need to feel safe. In the face of this situation, minister, are you considering additional measures to support the relief areas? Nearly 90 per cent of the costs are staff costs, an increase of 8 per cent. We cannot afford these increases! Do you intend to meet the representatives of the different police areas? Could you consider alternatives to having police officers on the street? Is there any provision for strengthening the federal police force to indirectly improve police areas during the summer period of major events?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u4	Minister, I am not going to repeat what my fellow mayors have said. Since I myself am the mayor of a commune in the province of Luxembourg, I have the same situation. We hope that you will propose budgetary solutions to make things easier for us in our different police areas. Minister, I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u5	I'd like to join the mayors list. The questions have been asked. I therefore refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u6	I am doing the same thing, Mr President, and I am referring to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u7	I also refer to my written question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u8	Mr President, I will not be able to do the same as colleagues and refer to the text of my question because I want to provide additional information, which I could not include when I tabled my question. Minister, today we know how much the federal government is supposed to play a role in supporting police areas to honour their various personnel and operating expenses. That is why we did indeed welcome the recent budgetary effort to increase the planned appropriations. The problem, as we see it today, is that this support remains largely insufficient given that the KUL standard, which has been the basis of the funding law, has not been updated since 2001, while the needs and constraints have changed. I am thinking of events and demonstrations to cover, crime, population growth and road traffic. This is in addition to wage indexing, increased pension contributions, the loss of regional subsidies, the explosion of energy costs, and your government's plan to upgrade police officers' salaries. Funding for this upgrading would probably be provided by the municipalities alone. As a result, it appears that today local police areas are strangled by what they call chronic underfunding by the federal government, so that, to name but a few, the chief of the Hesbaye police zone had to explain that he had so little means that at night, out of the nine communes covered by the zone, there would be only two police officers available, while the population has increased by almost 25 per cent since the establishment of the police zone. That's an example. Minister, what concrete steps are you going to take to temporarily reduce each of the burdens that I have mentioned, which weigh heavily on these areas? How long? Several mayors of the police areas in difficulty asked you for a meeting as soon as possible. Mr Rigot tells us that he has not yet received a reply, which is quite disturbing. Do you intend to accede to their request and within what time frame? Do you not think that today federal endowments should be able to evolve according to wage indexation and not just the consumer price index, at least in terms of the share of staff allocations? Finally, do you intend to update this famous KUL standard? On this basis, should the need arise, should there not be an increase in the allocation of police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u9	Madam Minister, with the budgetary adjustments we discussed here two weeks ago, you are making EUR 64 million extra for the local police areas on the basis of indexation for the financing of our police. This is an increase of 8%. Meanwhile, Belfius' annual study on the finances of our local authorities is pressing us with the noses on the facts. Local authorities are in severe financial conditions and high inflation rates are causing wage costs to rise significantly. The budgetary approach was based on a single wage index adjustment in 2022. In the meantime, however, that number stands at four. The fear is therefore that the current budget increase will not be sufficient to fully cover rising labour costs. Local police are faced with many challenges, including the budgetary ones. Just yesterday, our West Flemish police chiefs raised the alarm about the continuing staff shortage. Two weeks ago, we discussed recruitment in plenary. In West Flanders we feel that very hard. The underfunding of the West Flemish police school also worries our chiefs. They now offer to organise the selection at provincial level. I myself referred to that slope in my question, which you are prepared to examine. In short, we can say, Madam Minister, that the challenges for local police remain great. You know that, too. That is why it is all the more important that the federal dotation is sufficiently large to absorb rising wage costs. Firstly, is it right to fear that the increase in the budget by 8% in the index adjustment will not be sufficient to meet rising wage costs? Do you see any possibility of adjusting this increase by means of a subsequent budgetary adjustment? Secondly, when will the local areas be informed of the index adjustment and any other adjustments so that they can take financial account of this in their accounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I am of course aware, as well as my services, of the impact of rising inflation on the budgets of the local police areas. The amounts are certainly adapted, initially, to the real evolution of the health index, which is calculated on the last annual basis available at the time of the preparation of the general expenditure budget – in this case, December 2020. However, in a second phase, the amounts thus updated to the real evolution of the health index are increased by the projected growth rates respectively for the increase of the health index from 2020 to 2021 and from 2021 to 2022, by the Federal Planning Office, to obtain the provisional amounts for the year 2022. Finally, these forecasts are faced with the actual evolution of the health index, which was adopted in December of the current year, i.e. here in December 2022. Indeed, the 8% budget increase will not be sufficient to finance the definitive basic amounts 2022. For the calculation of the basic amount 2022, we shall take into account the inflation parameters applicable for the current year 2022. The amount of the federal basic dose will only be definitively fixed in January 2023, as it is based on the health index of December 2022. Therefore, before that date, we cannot deliver the final amounts to the police zones. I understand that this leads to uncertainties for the police zones, but fixing the final amount of the payments at the end of each financial year has the advantage of taking into account the inflation parameters of the current year, and should, if necessary, allow the increase in wage costs due to the inflation which weighs on the budget of the zones. The financing of wage indexation is therefore already structurally supported through the current mechanism. In any case, I would like to examine whether the annual guidelines for the preparation of the budgets of the police zones, such as the ministerial letter, could introduce more flexibility in order to respond more quickly to unexpected inflation expectations in this case. We must not make structural adjustments. This year, hopefully, is an exceptional year with exceptionally high inflation and we need to look at how we deal with the phenomenon. I would like to warn against a structural anchoring of solutions to exceptional situations in the normal organisation of our police forces, in particular the allocation of the federal dotation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u11	Minister, I remain a little puzzled at your answer. Indeed, you have re-explained how the calculation is carried out, but I already knew it. Guardianship has already explained it to me. What I expect is measures and proposals. For example, you tell us that the 8% increase foreseen in the budget adjustment will not be enough to adapt to inflation. So we already know that what is provided for in our federal budget will be insufficient in relation to the recalculations that will be made. But at the same time, the tutelage tells us that this 8% cannot be included in this year's budget. This is terrible because it means that the municipalities will have to put almost 16 to 20 per cent more funds to finance their police areas, while the federal government will not change anything until the end of the year. That's not admissible! You said you were going to study a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u12	I can't magic!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u13	I'm asking you a problem and you're telling me that you're going to look at and study a solution, but it's not a commitment on your part. I expect stronger action than that. There are police areas that will approve a budget by indexing federal initiative staffing. That's what I want to do in my area, for example. This will go to the governor, who will then ask you what he has to do with this budget. If it reforms the budget, it means that it will reform the communal allocations to increase them compared to what would have been voted on in the police zone council. You're going to face a political problem at some point. I think that an initiative should be taken in the form of a circular to allow the areas to anticipate this increase which we are going to have at the end of the year, since we are in an exceptional situation. In my opinion, in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. Time is running out for everyone. If we have the solution in October, we will have already exhausted virtually all of our budgetary appropriations. There's a real urgency! The money is in the budget and is voted in the budget adjustment. The money's here. I am therefore not asking for an increase in the budget, but simply for the inclusion in the zonal budget of that amount that has been adopted in the federal budget. It's not an exceptional request, though!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have asked you three simple questions: what are you considering as concrete means for police areas? Are you planning to meet with representatives of police areas? Are you considering temporary reinforcements, in particular to allow police areas to be on the ground? And on the three simple questions, I didn't get any answers. I know your situation is complex, but it is also complex for police areas, for municipalities. At the end of the summer, the Hesbaye police area will draw up its budget and it will do so, this time, by reflecting on all the police areas of the province of Liège and adopting a common attitude, which will make things even more complex and further break a dialogue that is almost non-existent today. Of course, Madam Minister, we must find the financial means. It is not easy and super complex for the communes, who must assume the weight of the reform of the police zones, the weight of the reform of the relief zones and who must bear indexations, cost increases throughout their communal management. What I want tomorrow is police officers on the streets to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, I want the return of neighbourhood agents, too, who have a major role in prevention, listening, a front-line role to create the link with our citizens. I also want our police officers to be safe to carry out their missions and to be on the ground rather than having to take on increasingly heavy administrative tasks, in which they cannot flourish. That's not why they decided to get involved in the police. I support the mayors of my police zone without any more affecting the communal finances and our fellow citizens, already sufficiently strangled by increases in the cost of living. I therefore expect you, Madam Minister, to take a quick stand in support of your police officers. They're your police, whether they're police or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u15	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answer. That is true, Madam Minister, the communes are exsanguous, the mayors say so, the administrations say so and the federal cannot remain deaf to the call of the communes. Today, if the federal government does not assume its responsibilities, the burden will fall on our communes. It is also not easy, as a member of the Police College or president of a police college, to go to the municipalities to apply for some additional grants. All the more so as we know that no minister wants to reach the KUL standards, which I can understand. So, everywhere in our communes, we are already really tight with a problem of police presence on the ground. It's shouting at us, there is sometimes even a mayor who moves himself instead of the police to solve one or the other problem. Please listen to us and try to do everything you can to make sure that, in the end, this problem is undergoing a real evolution in our fonts! I also know that you yourself must ask the government, the Minister of Budget. It is a pity that I am not the Minister of Budget because I would gladly have given you the means to increase the staffing of police areas, but I am not. Fight because, frankly, we are going straight to disaster! I'm telling you very openly and I really count on your determination to move this issue forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u16	It is quite clear that majority and opposition share a great concern here. That will also come to your cabinet and to you, Madam Secretary. You have spit the 8 % increase as good news. It may be said that it is better than nothing, but if you admit yourself that the budget increase will not be enough to counter inflation, then that is not good news. That is the fundamental problem. There is also a technical problem, which should not be underestimated either. While the budget is available, as my fellow mayors have said, there is the huge problem that we cannot register the money. In fact, as Mr Thiébaut says, we are going to be lenders. We have to play bank for the federal government, when we don't have any money. I dare say that I speak in the name of nearly 600 mayors when I say that the pressure on the local shoulders is du jamais vu. We've never seen that before. Madam Secretary, we need all the help we can get and I think you can help us here. Technically, that's not impossible. Of course, I still hope that the fundamental problem that the budget will not be sufficient to counter inflation will also be raised. I think my speech is shared unisono.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. At the risk of repeating what some colleagues have said, I believe that our communes are in a situation which is ultimately not favourable and which is becoming increasingly tense day after day. Needless to say, the problems arise in terms of the budget because we have been in an exceptional situation for months. As you said, some areas are emerging from the floods, from the health crisis of the coronavirus, which has pressed the municipalities like lemons and, today, the 8% increase, announced as good news and of which we have been pleased, looks quite insufficient to cope with the current inflation. Change is not easy! When you have to touch the budget, it seems simple, but it's not because it's very technical. In my opinion, it is not impossible. What is lacking to resolve this situation is what I will call a political will. The message I want to convey to you, Madam Minister, is as you have done in other dossiers: to place all your will and your energy in order to find a solution in the short and long term in order to respond to the call made by my fellow mayors and aldermen, on the one hand, and by all the other communes not represented in our committee, on the other. I believe that the problem will certainly arise by the end of the year: police areas will experience a serious problem at budgetary level and they will not be able to continue with communal finances as they are. I really want, Madam Minister, to come back quickly with a solution that is not structural, at least temporary, to solve the technical problem facing us. You have all my confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u18	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In normal times this system can be absorbed, but at this time it is really a budgetary problem and a problem of cash flow for many zones. A number of zones can cope with this because they are still in deficit today and because many zones have budgeted the entire budget for their entire corps, but it has not been filled in. A number of zones can absorb this in terms of cash flow, but a number of zones that are fully filled in are affected by this problem. Something must also be done in budgetary terms. That money is provided for in the federal expenditure budget for 2022, but it will not be spent until 2023. So the amount should actually be in 2023. Perhaps the solution is that exceptional payments are made, based on the distribution of the EUR 64 million according to the federal key, so that they can be passed on as pre-financing. This can be corrected next year on the basis of the system. That is not new, it is already happening with the Traffic Fine Fund today. They are now getting a piece of it and five years later a correction follows. That system already exists. I know the problem lies with the administration and with the law, but we can amend the law by October so that the zones can register it in October or November. I think there are possibilities if you have the administration with you and the law can be changed. Then we're all at ease.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You have heard from most of my colleagues here that there is a great deal of concern. I share that concern. I may have missed it in your answer, but I had asked what your view is on the suggestion that the increased revenue from the RSZ could partly flow back to the zones, partly as a result of wage increases for police personnel. A lot of good suggestions were made here. For the time being, we haven't noticed much about that, but I'm holding my heart for 2023. The police will then be entitled to these meal cheques for the first time for a full year. If there is no change in policy in this area, it will also be an integral part of the municipal budgets. Those are heavy klepters coming at us, aren't they? Our concern has been sufficiently expressed here and I hope that a solution can be found for the local areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u20	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, which at first gave us a glimpse of a small port of hope, since you explained to us how well you were aware of the impact of this inflation on the expenditure of the various local police areas and that, therefore, the 8% increase that had been planned would not be sufficient to respond correctly. This hope was then dubbed by the second part of your answer. Indeed, you explained to us that these new allocations would only be set for January 2023, in other words, the police areas only have to wait wisely when they are confronted with untenable situations. These areas are increasingly under pressure to cope with an ever-increasing number of their missions, including that of a local police force that keeps us all at heart. They must also respond to calls for other services. In this case, I refer to the appeal by the Federal Judicial Police to rescue the six Brussels police areas – which themselves do not have enough resources to carry out their own tasks – to remedy the lack of resources allocated to other services. That's quite challenging! I think that pending the minimum minimorum would have been to commit to updating this standard KUL. You have not answered this question at all. I have the impression that this is a real taboo in this government. This is a challenge to me because I think it's the least I can do to realize that needs have changed significantly in more than 20 years. I therefore do not understand why this government is not aware of this problem, which has a terrible impact on the day-to-day functioning of the various local police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u21	We hear here, among other things, the remark that we should not play a bank. I note that the Minister states that he is bound by certain rules and laws, but she will nevertheless try to solve the problem within her possibilities. Colleagues, you do not want to know how frequently cities and municipalities should act as banks for the Flemish government. Apart from that, it is not pleasant to have to do this in these difficult times. So we have to find a solution. I note that other colleagues say they do not want to interfere with the KUL standard while the States-General is busy. It is said that there is a need for a larger budget, but if structural adjustments, such as increasing police zones, are put on the table, then this will prove to be unspeakable. When colleagues argue that we need to invest more in the federal judicial police, the whole Parliament calls for'show us the money'. It is really very easy to constantly criticize a minister who wants to solve the problem, while on the other hand there are constantly problems that we cannot solve. Dear members of the majority, let us therefore consult our own Deputy Ministers so that they can find a solution at the government table. I have already heard a minister who would like to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u22	Mr President, I should like, in a few words, to be surprised by Mr Demon's anger. We only want the minister to be good. Above all, we want the municipalities to be able to meet the challenges they face. The Minister has made the financial effort to enable the budgetary adjustment to meet legitimate expectations. We can only thank her. I don't know if we can do the same thing at the federal level as at the Walloon Region. From the moment a subsidy or subsidy is provided, there is a material possibility to include it in the budget so that it remains in balance, in order to avoid resorting to the municipalities of the police zone. Indeed, we know that this money will arrive in the police areas. Madam Minister, what I am asking you is to see with your administration what could be done technically, mechanically, so that this amount can be included in the budget and that the budget remains in balance. Budget and cash should not be confused. Yes, we act as a bank. I agree with you, Mr. Demon. Here, the question is not asked in these terms. The question is that we must allow police areas to remain in budgetary balance. Otherwise, the police areas will have to turn to the governors, and then to the minister. I think we could avoid all of this. It is with great benevolence that we ask you to see what can be done, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u23	Given the limited time frame, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u24	As I said earlier in committee, we do not miss an opportunity to promote the use of the 112 BE app. At every large-scale event and event for professionals that the General Executive Board organises or participates in, there is a stand where the public gets tips on downloading the app and its use. I am thinking of the security village on the Sablon on 21 July, the Belgian Fire Games, various fairs and salons such as Expo 112 or the ASTRID User Days, or the congress days of the fire department. Each year, on 11 February, during the European Emergency Number 112 day, the 112 BE app will be highlighted on the social networks of Civil Security. The website www.112.be contains a full section dedicated to the 112 BE app. This includes the promotional videos for the app, explanations of its benefits, the way to download it and all the visual promotional material. In 2020, videos were made and distributed to show the numerous benefits of the 112 app and to encourage a larger number of people to use them effectively to contact the 112 and 101 plants. Those movies were also posted on the website. In addition, the app is included in the other promotional and awareness-raising campaigns of the General Executive Board of Civil Security. This is the case, among other things, in the campaign "Sometimes fire is not your biggest risk" for firefighters, in which firefighters are advised to use the 112 BE app if they need police help during an intervention and to report in advance, when registering their profile, that they are firefighters. Based on that app, their location can be easily determined, which is the case for every user. Civil Security will thus continue to promote the use of the app through various media. I would also like to call on you and the other committee members to strengthen that message through local channels. Impactful communication can certainly also be done in this area via the nearest network, namely local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I also installed the app and even promoted it on my Facebook page and so on. You are right that we must continue to sensitise and advertise. In 2021, the app was downloaded 80,000 times less than in 2020. This figure fluctuates on the basis of promotional and awareness-raising campaigns. There are 7 million active smartphones in our country today. 17% of them are equipped with the app. All together, we have to raise that figure. That app with location detection on the smartphone can save lives and save lives already. That must be the ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u26	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u27	Currently, 16 staff carry out the security verification, 6 coordinators check the quality of the screenings and submit the disputed files to the National Security Council (NSR) colleges and 2 supervisors provide the service for the organisation, priority determination and compliance with deadlines. The number of screeners has increased over the past three to four years. There are now 50% more people there. There are currently no vacancies available for the function. The average lead time of a security screening conducted by the federal police is about five days for simple files and 10 days for more complicated files. In the latter case, we are also dependent on the answers of external partners before a ruling can be made. I broadly agree with the conclusions of the Court of Auditors and I am convinced that it is absolutely necessary to digitise all processes and to put in place continuous monitoring for the holders of a safety attestation or advice. Moreover, Europe's ongoing monitoring has been imposed on us in the framework of the security of our international airports. Pending the introduction of such a process, the period of validity of airport badges is reduced to one year instead of five years. Proposals have already been made in the context of the extension of security verification to new sectors and of the reform of the NSR. These proposals concern the recruitment of additional staff, the necessary material, the legal framework, the ICT events, the support and the budget needed to cope with the additional workload. For the strategic question on the screening policy of the NVO, please refer to the Prime Minister, who also exercises powers in foreign affairs. Today he is responsible for the NVO according to the decision in the NVO.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u28	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your clear answers. The decision to shorten the validity of the airport badges from five years to one year was very good. There is a lot of traffic at Zaventem Airport, also at other airports, and sometimes people were no longer employed there, but they still had a safety badge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u29	Mr President, this matter was dealt with fairly extensively in plenary two weeks ago, but my question remained on the agenda. I thought she might not be up-to-date anymore, but yesterday articles appeared again in Het Nieuwsblad and Het Laatste Nieuws about Western Flemish police zones expressing their concern. That is why I would like to refer here to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u30	I would like to remind you and the other colleagues of the rule. One can refer to his written question, but then one cannot ask an additional question in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u31	Mr Moyaers, I feel that there are some misunderstandings or misunderstandings about the recruitment reserve here and there. The recruitment reserve is part of the new recruitment and selection procedure. So she didn't exist before. We can therefore only speak of a recruitment reserve since 11 April 2022. After all, it is only at that time that the first selections have taken place according to the new concept and that people have entered the recruitment reserve. On 1 June 2022, so now 14 days ago, 7 weeks after opening the recruitment reserve, there are 86 laureates in the recruitment reserve, of which 49 French speakers and 37 Dutch speakers. They are now applying for a job at a local police area or a federal police department. It is certainly not the intention to have and keep as many people as possible in the recruitment reserve. After the selection tests, we want a rapid flow from the selection to recruitment by a local zone and/or a federal police service, so that there is a flow. The figures mentioned on the recruitment reserve are not about the stock we want to keep. After all, there is no dynamic in that. They do deal with the flow of those involved. It is therefore a good thing that very few people are involved, but that they have started their training in the meantime. In addition, a large number of laureates have passed the general selection tests according to the old procedure. Between 1 January 2022 and 1 June 2022 592 laureates of the old procedure and already 4 of the new procedure started their training in the police school. Last time we talked about the numbers of recruitment and the people who go to training. The recruitment of candidates for the integrated police force is in a transitional year, a year with a combination of the old and the new procedure. Following the introduction of the new procedure, we have worked to optimize it. The screening we have put in place also requires some coordination and some additional work here and there. However, it is now running as we had planned. The recruitment and selection department of the federal police has been strengthened with staff from the Personnel and the National Police College, in order to eliminate the backlog as quickly as possible. The processing time of the screenings, where a bug has caused problems for three weeks, has now been reduced from five weeks to one week. New candidates may also choose the dates of their generic selection tests according to the new procedure. About 30% of the candidates for inspector and 50% of the candidates for a job at the Security Directorate did not show up for the tests. The question then is, of course, whether this autonomy will get us to the candidate and the recruitment fastest. Employees of the Recruitment and Selection Service have therefore contacted each candidate individually to arrange a new date. Of course, we would have thought that it would be easier for people to decide for themselves, so that they could take account of their agenda. We need to take that into account now. This is something that can also be found in other recruitment processes. We will evaluate the system and the services will examine how to avoid a larger number of absentees, again to make it move forward as quickly as possible. As far as police schools are concerned, there will be a study with them and with the Personnel Directorate on how to adjust the planning for the autumn, so that more places in the training will be available from October onwards. As regards the occupational doctors involved in the selection by the Recruitment and Selection Service, a public contract was issued, allowing them to carry out more short-term medical examinations. We hope to be able to award that government contract in the summer of this year. In the framework of the qualitative aspect of the new sectoral agreement, discussions are taking place with the trade unions on their own recruitment. I've told you that before. This is the system whereby local police areas can take full responsibility for recruitment and selection procedures. We have a pilot project in Antwerp, but there are also challenges. We must have sufficient capacity and we must ensure that these recruitment routes are handled in a harmonious manner, but I am certainly not in favour of this. That is why we have had this on the table for a long time in discussions with the trade unions. In any case, the FOD WASO has responded positively to the question whether zones can also use their own occupational doctors for their own recruitment. As you can see, we're working on the road there. I hope I have given you sufficient information. I'm sure we'll talk about that in the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I believe that a number of misunderstandings can be overcome in this way. We'll follow up on this. Questions will undoubtedly follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u33	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u34	Mr Loones, the distribution of seats among the various electoral circles of the country before the elections of the Chamber is indeed governed by Article 63 (3) of the Constitution. From now on, no ten-year census will be held. In accordance with the Constitution, Article 33 of the Law of 13 December 2002 on various amendments to electoral legislation sets out another means of determining population figures. The population figures to be taken into account for the distribution of the members of the Chamber of Representatives among the electoral circles are those resulting from the number of inhabitants registered in the National Register of Natural Persons, as they were published after the 10-year period referred to in Article 63 (3) of the Constitution. The most recent population figures are those of May 28, 2012, which were published by KB on November 19, 2012. The following figures to be taken into account are those resulting from the number of inhabitants registered in the National Register of Natural Persons on 28 May 2022. The extraction of population figures from the National Register on 28 May this year will soon be carried out by the Home Office. In accordance with the Constitution, these population figures will be published within six months. In practice, the publication will normally take place in September or October 2022, but do not pin me on that. Within three months of this announcement, the King will determine the new division of seats in the Chamber. In practice, the new distribution of seats is normally published fairly quickly after the publication of the population figures. I hope I have made this clear to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u35	Thank you for your explanation, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u36	I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u37	Mr Depootere, the so-called camera law of 21 March 2007 applies to surveillance cameras, placed by governments and local authorities. This law provides that the data controller is the legal or natural person who records the finalities and modalities of the deployment of surveillance cameras. The controller should respect the rights and obligations of the camera law and evaluate the necessity and proportionality of the camera deployed. The camera law is clear. Intelligent cameras, linked to external databases, are only allowed if they are ANPR cameras, linked to the technical ANPR database. The use of cameras with facial recognition software in public buildings is not legally permitted under the current legislative framework. The infringement of the camera law is subject to criminal sanctions. Sound recording is also punishable, in accordance with 314a of the Criminal Code. I would like to emphasise that my services provide the declaration platform on the egov portal, but are not themselves the recipients of the data contained in the mandatory declaration. Those records are only for the police forces. Furthermore, the electronic declaration form shall contain an optional field for the technical description of the cameras, where the controller may indicate the camera's mark. Security and security services are well aware of the risks posed by the surveillance cameras. The most appropriate response to the concerns expressed, both within and outside the context of public procurement regulation, is currently being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The camera law is clear, but it is a good thing that we uphold the principle of caution in this matter. If one does not see that small cities such as Kortrijk and Hasselt look at the use of these kinds of cameras with a certain distrust, then a number of alarm bells should go off.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u39	Madam Minister, the question is a bit dated, but I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u40	The judicial investigation into this incident is ongoing, which means that the police area is not entitled to answer the questions asked. The stabbing on the Moricharplein is a particularly serious fact, but fortunately it remains an isolated incident in this area of Saint-Gilles. That neighborhood is mainly related to social nuisance, in particular noise pollution. Street deals are also present in this neighborhood, as in many other neighborhoods of the country. They are also at the root of the aforementioned nuisance. To your question about curfew, I can confirm that no curfew was set at the time. Local police will focus on tackling social nuisance through police presence, by engaging in dialogue with local residents, but also, and above all, with the citizens at the root of the nuisance. Eventually, appropriate action will also be taken if necessary in non-compliance with the rules. In my view, the police as a service provider cannot and cannot be seen as the only problem solver for this problem. The approach to nuisance requires coordinated action by all chain partners, including prevention workers and city guards, as well as the Communities and partners from other sectors. In this sense, police forces are one link within the security chain and will assume their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You speak of an isolated incident. That is true of the stabbing, but there are numerous incidents, which you euphemistically describe as'social nuisance'. I would rather describe it as very serious societal problems. The problem doesn't date from yesterday, it's been dragging on for years. We hear the same mantra over and over again: the police will intervene if necessary, but we need a chain approach with different partners first. If that chain approach is not working properly, Madam Minister, then I think we should change our shoulder and instruct the police to act much more repressively. We must abandon the policy of pampering with regard to some young people who create a form of insecurity there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u42	Madame Minister, a number of municipal councils in Flemish Brabant, including those of Machelen and Beersel, have approved a motion, which goes beyond the limits of majority and opposition, on the shortage of police personnel. The motion, which your cabinet will undoubtedly have received, calls on the federal government to take immediate action. The municipalities in the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde experience increasing urban pressure from Brussels. There is not only the increase in population, Halle-Vilvoorde also has more and more to do with urban crime phenomena that blow over from Brussels, problems of public order and enforcement and so on. The thirteen Chiefs of Staff of Halle-Vilvoorde have also written an open letter to you about this. I know there has already been a certain consultation, but what is the current state of the discussion between your cabinet and the police chiefs involved? What's the further timing? When will concrete action be taken on their concerns? In your opinion, should anything change the way the local police areas in Halle-Vilvoorde receive their dotation? In that respect, I refer to the parameters. The criteria for funding police areas are, moreover, examined more generally in the States-General of the Police. One can take the criterion of the number of policemen against the number of inhabitants, the criterion of the ground area or the criterion of the crime rates in a given zone. These are all factors that can play a role. However, it should be noted that the current figures and the current parameters show a large difference in the number of police officers calculated according to the number of residents in Brussels and Halle-Vilvoorde. There is a certain distortion, which creates competition between the Brussels and the Flemish Brabant corps. Will you revisit that? If so, at what time? How could the competition between Brussels and the Flemish Brabant corps be neutralized?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u43	Mr Depoostere, I have already informed your colleagues Moyaers, Vandenput and Goethals in this committee that I immediately had a virtual consultation with them and with the mayors of the Halle-Vilvoorde arrondissement on 4 April after receiving that open letter from the 13 Chiefs. At that time, according to my appreciation, we discussed in detail and openly the various themes and possible solutions, both at local and supralocal level and at federal level. Of course, there is no consensus on what these solutions can be. That is what we must continue the debate on. These themes include staff themes, recruitment, selection, activation measures in absenteeism, police operation, organisation and funding. Finally, it is my goal to explore with such conversations, including with other services and actors, how local authorities and the federal government can contribute to optimally functioning healthy local and federal police services. I experienced the meeting with the chiefs and the mayors as constructive. It is my intention in the autumn to follow up again with the mayors and police chiefs concerned the situation of the police zones, as well as the results of certain measures and the state of play. As I said earlier, you know this, because you referred to the fact that, 20 years after the police reform, I would like to enter into the debate on the revision of the funding of local police. You have undoubtedly also followed the hearings in committee on this issue. The problem is, of course, not new. You now appeal to me, but many of the predecessors were faced with similar questions about this revision or the application of the KUL standard. Apparently, that's not a simple matter. It was already discussed during the hearings, and I am convinced that transparent and simplified funding of the local police forces is insisting. That is precisely why we have set up the multidisciplinary committee for funding and optimal scale. In this exercise, attention is also paid to the basic functions of the police. It is intended that this working group will complete its work this summer so that these recommendations can be submitted to the members of the multidisciplinary committee. In view of the ongoing work of this committee and of the working group on basic functionalities, it is still too early to give my opinion on this. However, some issues are already on the agenda. The scale is important. I just heard what was being said about the financing of the local areas. That also has to do with scale. The requirements that we are asking the police today are that they should have a reasonable size in order to provide an answer. I also believe that not only criteria such as population, territorial size or crime should be taken into account, there are other socio-economic or geographical factors that can play a role, such as the presence of a penitentiary institution, a psychiatric facility or a football stadium, the amount of tourists present at a given time, etc. So I do not think it is feasible or realistic to find the key to financing in a single criterion, such as territorial expanse or population. I understand that the Flemish Rand, especially the police zones adjacent to the Brussels-Capital Region, has to do with the expanding and moving phenomena peculiar to the complex agglomeration and society. This is not only the case for the Brussels border, but also for other areas. Even in the most rural areas there is talk of urban or metropolitan problems. There are few zones that say today that they get money too much. Thinking about it with a closed envelope is, of course, a challenge. On the other hand, it is important to check and clarify whether the claim is correct that the Flemish Rand loses candidates to the Brussels police zones because of the statutory contributions, since the Brussels police zones attract hardly any Dutch-speaking candidates. Unlike the French-speaking candidates, Dutch-speaking candidates, regardless of the region, continue to be more difficult in general. This is, of course, also linked to the pressure on the labour market. My cabinet naturally follows, I would say, the situation in the police areas in Halle-Vilvoorde. As I said, a follow-up meeting is scheduled in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u44	Madam Secretary, I would like to make an appeal. Apparently the water is on the lips of the congregations and the chiefs of police in Halle-Vilvoorde, otherwise they would not write an open letter. It means that things have to be done. The motions approved across the boundaries of majority and opposition are also an important signal in municipal councils. Madam Secretary, I would urge you not to wait too long for the results of the States-General or the interdisciplinary working group. For some zones one can make an exception. A pilot project could then be set up there. Many proposals have been put forward, including by the Chiefs of Police, who have found each other in them and share ideas and suggestions for action. I hope that the discussions with you will also be managed properly for the rest and that they will produce concrete results. You doubt the progress of police officers in Halle-Vilvoorde to Brussels because of the premiums. I'm told the opposite. I do not have the figures with me, and I do not want to make it a figure fetishism either, but I am told a different story, namely that it is an aspect which deserves attention and which apparently requires a solution. Thank you very much for doing what is necessary in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u45	Madam Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u46	Mr Depoorter, on the basis of the information I have at my disposal today, I can inform you that no routers or other network material of the Huawei brand are currently being used or purchased at the Home Office. Only for telephony there are some mobile phones of that brand in circulation. The crisis centre has no Wi-Fi or ICT components or cameras or badge systems of Chinese or non-European origin. Also the OCAD has no Wi-Fi routers of the brand Huawei. According to the information for which the federal police have central control, she doesn't use Huawei material. As for your questions about foreign espionage and interference, a competence of the intelligence services, I would suggest that you address those questions to the relevant Ministers of Justice and Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u48	Madam Minister, you will probably, like me, have read the latest annual report from Police Watch. The findings contained in the report are intriguing. Of the victims of violations of integrity by members of the police force, only 29% file complaints. Police Watch notes that a large number of victims end up giving up on the complexity of the process; 35 per cent of those who renounce to file complaints say they do not do so for fear of reprisals, while 27 per cent believe that it will be of no use. Overall, the lack of confidence in existing complaint mechanisms accounts for 62% of non-complaints. Police Watch advocates for more accessible, effective and independent complaint mechanisms, including the possibility of filing a complaint online. I would like to hear your response to this report, Minister. Do you agree with the observation that the complaint process for violations of integrity within the police force is too complex and likely to discourage the filing of complaints by victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u49	Mr Boukili, I agree with the findings of the Police Watch report, which argues for more accessible, effective and independent complaint mechanisms, as well as for the importance of being able to file a complaint online. The integrated police service meets these requirements as citizens have several possibilities to file a complaint for violations of integrity by police services, including through the internal control services of each police zone or federal unit via the Inspectorate General (AIG) or the P Committee. With regard to the Federal Police, this can also be done via the complaint form available on the Internet, which contains all the useful information on the possibility for a citizen to file a complaint about an intervention or contact with the police services. I am aware that improving accessibility and confidence in complaint mechanisms is a constant focus of attention. This is why the federal police included the development of client-oriented complaint management as a strategic objective in the Federal Police Integrity Policy Note. This objective is specified by means of five operational points. Attention is drawn to the increased visibility and availability of the Single Window of Complaints for citizens, the registration of complaints, the processing time and qualitative follow-up of complaints, constructive relations with the supervisory bodies and Unia, as well as the reporting in the form of an annual report with recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that we share the same view on these conclusions. I am also happy to hear the points made to deal with this problem, which must be taken very seriously. We all believe that respect for the integrity of the police is fundamental, whether it is with regard to the victims or within the police, where police officers have sometimes wanted to report violations of integrity by colleagues and have been subjected to reprisals. As a result, they avoid doing it again afterwards. Let's try to give them the means to be tranquillized. We have tabled a bill to put in place a green line that could be used anonymously and handled by Committee P. This would establish a relationship of trust between the police and the citizen, but also within the police among colleagues and put pressure on all these people within the police who would not abide by the integrity rules. I therefore hope that, when this proposal comes to the table, you will support it, given that we share the same view on the conclusions, and that we can make progress on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u51	Mr. Parent, the Internal CPS is currently evaluating the report of Committee P. However, I can already state that the legislation regulating private and particular security does not prevent the two security services interviewed from considering and implementing the majority of the recommendations drafted by Committee P in order to improve the exercise of their powers. One issue highlighted in the investigation, however, is the finding that security officers do not have sufficient knowledge of their skills, use them in the wrong way or create confusion among citizens about their real skills because of the practice of identifying themselves as judicial police in their activities as security officers. The repeated position of Committee P on this last point is very clear. The identification of security officers in this capacity by means other than the identification card issued by the Inland FPS should be avoided, especially with regard to persons and passengers who are not familiar with such terminology and may not be able to properly estimate its scope. With regard to the lack of knowledge or practical skills, it is primarily for the security services to provide and develop solutions in accordance with the legal framework. My administration will ask the relevant security services how they take or plan to take action to comply with the relevant recommendations of the report. The revision of the Duquesne Circular is part of the rail police specialization file. I had asked the federal police to present me with a project validated by the Standing Committee on Local Police. A consensus on this integrated project has now been reached on the concept of specialization, but a final point on the provision of SNCB video surveillance images for the benefit of police areas is still under consideration. Various meetings are expected to take place during the summer on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for the status of the matter. This allows us to see that things are moving forward and on track. As you know, this sharing of skills between the railway police and Securail is a fundamental subject for strengthening rail safety. I am therefore pleased that the file is moving forward because if we want more people on the rail, we need to strengthen safety for both passengers and staff. There is also a strong expectation from the Securail staff to provide clarity in the definition of their missions. I would therefore like to give you an appointment at the end of the summer to take stock with you of the development of this issue. Thank you already for the interim answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u53	Minister, in early May, an attack on a rare violence occurred in the middle of the afternoon in downtown Tournai. Individuals, members of the Hell's Angels biker group, hammered members of the rival Bandidos. I assure you! It wasn't filming a movie! In recent years, a number of debates have already taken place with your predecessors in our assembly on the issue of violent biker gangs. Parliamentary debates on both the misdemeanours, traffickings and even murders committed by the latter, and the alleged or established membership of certain public officials in the latter. These gangs represent a major danger to our rule of law, which we must protect with respect for fundamental freedoms. Minister, at the integrated police level, are there specific guidelines for these violent biker gangs both to combat their harms and to monitor and monitor them? In collaboration with your colleague from the Department of Justice and State Security, do you envisage new directives, or even new legislative measures, to better follow these violent gangs, the people who belong to them; or even proactively, without obviously affecting freedom of association? In this context, is a reflection carried out in collaboration with our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u54	Mr.Senesael, the guidelines for the follow-up of criminal motorcycle gangs are included in Confidential COL 6/2009. The DJSOC Central Management Highsider Service is responsible for monitoring criminal biker gangs that meet the definition of this circular. Within the Federal Police, the DAO is also in charge of the administrative police follow-up of the motorcycle clubs included in the ministerial list; this is based on the MFO-3. COL 6/2009 is currently under review. It will place greater emphasis on the common approach of the judicial and administrative police. In this sense, it is a new directive aimed not only at taking proactive measures to prevent the establishment and expansion of this grouping, but also at involving a more uniform policy of prosecution. However, new legislative measures are not envisaged. In the fight against criminal biker gangs, collaboration exists between neighbouring countries. Experts exchange data on the phenomenon and discuss common paths. However, the policy in the Netherlands and Germany on the civil ban on bikers' gangs is not a solution chosen by Belgian experts, as it makes it almost impossible to follow up the people who belong to them, and hence the phenomenon. The assessment of this measure by the experts from the countries concerned is not positive. Although they are less visible to the citizen, the members of the targeted biker clubs are still well present and still commit misdemeanours. I hope I've given you enough information with my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u55	Minister, thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic818x.u56	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55028658C by Mr Delizée, 55028805C, 55028806C, 55028807C and 55028808C by Mr Senesael, 55028826C by Mrs Goethals and 55028859C by Mr Moyaers were postponed to another meeting.
