ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u1	Madam President, Minister, Dr Julie De Vos has put a number of things into motion with her tweet. She lost her maternity allowance for the entire period of her maternity leave because she had continued working the week before the expected date of delivery. We all understand the circumstances. She works in a doctor's office, and Corona's very busy there. The RIZIV has proposed, in consultation with your cabinet and the government of the Minister of Health, an administrative practice whereby benefits are granted for the remainder of the period, in so far as it takes up childbirth rest. This benefit would not therefore be withdrawn for the whole period. That practice has already been applied to pregnant workers. The situation is different there, because there is also a sanction for the employer. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Julie De Vos announced her situation through social media, because she only received standard responses from the mutuality and was at an end. Not all self-employed people have the opportunity to write tweets about it. Are there any self-employed people left in that situation? Was this communicated with the mutualities, so that a uniform working method can be applied? After all, I understand that the approach is different per mutuality. Are there any similar cases in self-employed persons? Are they actively tracked? That way everyone can get the same arrangement. The first week of prenatal leave is a protection measure. There is little point in protecting mothers if they are not granted maternity leave afterwards because the benefit is refused. I think this is an important measure. What will you do to encourage self-employed people to do this? What is your interpretation of the facts? In what way will you deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I have a slightly different approach, although of course I support the call for all the self-employed who have been wrongly interpreted to correct this. In fact, Minister, I would like to hear from you how it is possible that an administrative practice should be agreed on in this respect, although nowhere in the law has that sanction been described in this way and no other health insurance institution has ever given that interpretation in that way. I checked on that last one. Frankly, in my opinion, we are dealing here with a health insurance fund that has given linea recta its own interpretation. That is also explained in the newspaper. It depended on anyone getting Nancy or Marcelleke on the phone. After all, everyone was allowed to interpret it themselves rather than turn to the RIZIV to hear how it actually belonged. The communication therefore revealed that the sickness fund had so hard strived for that week prior to childbirth and that they therefore wanted to make things feel very strict. That's the world upside down. Self-employed people who work longer hours would be punished afterwards and would not get paid maternity rest, which is, moreover, against all European directives. It makes sense not to pay for the days worked. That's also the way it's registered in the law. Mr Minister, can you indicate on the basis of which specific provision and what specific regulatory text can be absolutely established that self-employed persons would lose their full entitlement to maternity benefit in that case? We do not find the royal decree in question. If so, can you tell me whether federal legislation is contrary to Article 8 of the EU Directive, which states that Member States are taking the necessary measures to ensure that female self-employed workers receive adequate maternity benefits? Finally, if it is true that that law can be interpreted in this way, why is there no black and white on the website of the RIZIV or on the websites of the sickness funds that working during the week before the expected date of delivery has the effect of losing the full right to maternity benefit? Mr Minister, will you change that communication and call on the sickness funds to correct it and to communicate clearly? In other words, has the CM simply done its way or is there really something to read about it in the law, which we have not been able to find?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u3	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns a general practitioner from Gentbrugge, Julie De Vos, who continued to work with the best intentions and also for a piece of ignorance in the week before her due date of birth, because she is in the front line in the fight against the corona crisis and in order to alleviate the workload of her colleagues. For Ecolo-Green, it is quite clear that the health of the mother and unborn child must be protected. Of course, the week before the due date of delivery has a function, but that can't possibly lead to someone continuing to work in that week losing their full maternity allowance. This in no way benefits the health of mother and child. After an intervention by the RIZIV it was finally decided that the CM would pay the benefit, but of course not for the one week in which she worked. That makes sense, but a number of firm clarifications are nevertheless insisting. For example, clarification of the consequences of non-respect for self-employed workers of the mandatory period of maternity rest is necessary. The full benefit cannot then be cancelled. What do you think is the best instrument to clarify this? What steps will you take to ensure that this does not happen to anyone? After all, it was a real agony for the lady in question. How many self-employed mothers have lost part of their benefits in the past because they did not fully respect compulsory maternity leave? How often was the sanction the loss of the full benefit? Are there plans to provide more information, as I asked, and to make a compensation arrangement for all or some of these cases? I understand that the problem does not exist with employees in this way. Can you confirm that? Finally, I also have a question about the role of mutuality. Julie De Vos complains that she constantly received standard responses from the CM when, since November, she tried to address her situation. Fortunately, she has other channels to bring the case to the attention, like her Twitter account with a lot of followers. For example, her file has been accelerated and a solution has been found, but not everyone has that option and people cannot depend on it. Do you believe that this case also demonstrates the need to improve the services of the mutualities and do you expect them to make a concrete commitment to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u4	Allow me to ask you to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u5	Minister, you know that maternity rest is there to protect children and mothers. The mother may choose a number of weeks, but before giving birth at least one week must be included. A childbirth, of course, is not entirely planned, which is why it is based on what the doctor passes on. The doctor concerned wanted to continue working to help colleagues out of need. I have to tell you, when I read her message on Twitter, I thought it was a mistake at first. Perhaps a few days could be withheld, in particular the number of days she had worked before childbirth, but it turned out to be a complete withdrawal of her benefit. That, of course, is not proportionate. The RIZIV also pointed out that the legislation is unclear as regards these sanctions and that there are possibilities for interpretation. I understand that one should be able to sanction, for example, if someone goes back to work three or five weeks after giving birth and at the same time gets a benefit. That people like this lady are sanctioned for the entire period, however, I find far-reaching. She has simply passed on to the mutuality that she has continued working in the days preceding the calculated delivery date. She also gave birth later than calculated. Hence my questions. Mr Minister, will you, in consultation with the RIZIV and the mutualities, draw up clear guidelines on these breaches of legislation, so that people no longer lose their full maternity allowance if, for example, they continue to work for a number of days? This legislation now offers too much room for manoeuvre. I myself found it partly in the 2017 Royal Decree, where there is talk of sanctions between 300 and 400 days, but there is actually too much room for interpretation. Will you also work on a flexible arrangement so that if a child is born prematurely women do not suddenly lose that week? Can you improve that in consultation with your colleagues? How many mothers in the last year have lost their unrecorded days of maternity rest because the child came too early? Can you give me some figures on that? Can you also tell me how many mothers have completely lost that benefit because they have continued to work, such as Mrs De Vos? This case has reached the media, but many other cases where people lose their entire benefit because they have continued to work for a few days do not make the media. What will you do about it? Will you rectify that with retroactive effect? How many women were wholly or partially withheld from maternity benefits because they deliberately abused the legislation, for example by returning to work a month after childbirth even though they were already receiving maternity benefits? I believe that these abuses may be dealt with, but cases such as those of the general practitioner concerned are quite different. We must be able to do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u6	Minister, the self-employed, like civil servants and employees, are protected from loss of income before and after childbirth. The Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 on benefits in kind and maternity insurance for selfemployed persons states that that maternity rest consists of two parts, namely compulsory maternity rest and a voluntary optional period. The mandatory period comprises a total of three weeks, one week before delivery and two weeks after delivery. One can voluntarily take another two weeks before delivery. Then there is the post-birth rest, for a maximum duration of the rest of the total of twelve weeks maternity rest, or thirteen weeks in the case of a multiple. The Royal Decree also provides for maternity benefits for the duration of maternity rest. It shall not determine a penalty for those who would not have fully complied with the mandatory weeks of rest. It is important to repeat that today. Reports on the social media and the press show that in at least one case an independent person was denied maternity leave for the full duration by the sickness fund because she had continued to work during the week before the expected date of delivery. After consultation with you and the RIZIV, the sickness fund concerned would have come back to that decision. She is now only losing the benefit for the days on which she continued to work. That is also the case in the KB. Do you agree, Minister, that continuing to work during the week of compulsory pre-birth rest cannot under any circumstances result in the loss of the benefit for the full duration of maternity rest? Would you like to modify the KB to exclude different interpretations in this area? Are you investigating with your colleague responsible for Social Affairs whether there are still people in that situation? Will you ensure that these self-employed persons can still receive this benefit? We believe that this needs to be investigated. Does each sickness fund have the same interpretation of the Royal Decree? If so, will you take action against sickness funds which have wrongly denied entitlement to benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u7	Minister, many things have already been said, but I would like to point out that, since the beginning of the year, there has been a great step forward. And this is thanks to your action to put employees and self-employed people more or less on an equal footing in terms of maternity benefits. There is, of course, still a lot of progress to be made, since today, where a mother is entitled to fourteen weeks' absence from work, an independent person is entitled to only nine weeks' pay, including those famous, compulsory three weeks that my colleagues have already mentioned. Concerns have been raised in the field. It was mainly the Flemish press that echoed these problems. We don't really have any indications of what's going on in Wallonia and Brussels. On the other hand, there were these messages on Twitter: particular cases of self-employed women who had to continue working and lost their maternity allowance. I agree with the questions raised, particularly as regards the fact that there is no sanction provided for today, but despite everything, an independent woman who continues to work for a few days risks losing her entire maternity allowance. It would be good to clarify things and above all not to take back on one side what was given on the other. So I'd like to know if you have more complete figures except what we read in the Dutch-speaking press. Do you plan to put things in place to clarify the situation? Even if we know that the situation of independent mothers is not always simple and that some sometimes have no choice but to continue working so as not to lose their clients completely, what could be put in place to encourage these mothers to take advantage of these first days and weeks with their child? Can we really confirm that, at present, even if they have to continue working at certain times, they do not lose their entire maternity allowance? It is necessary to clarify the situation today and we listen carefully to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the current rules provide that maternity rest in maternity insurance for self-employed persons is a 12-week rest period, during which neither self-employed persons nor their normal professional activity nor any other professional activity may exercise. The maternity rest consists of a compulsory and an optional period. The mandatory period includes three weeks, more specifically one week of mandatory pre-birth rest and two weeks of mandatory post-birth rest. The mandatory week of pre-birth rest shall begin the seventh day before the expected date of delivery. The two compulsory weeks of post-birth rest start from the day of childbirth and cover a period corresponding to two weeks. Furthermore, Directive 2010/41 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 July 2010 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for self-employed men and women does not even provide that the period of maternity rest is mandatory. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8 of the Directive, Member States may decide whether the maternity allowance is to be granted on a compulsory or voluntary basis following the interruption of the professional activity on account of pregnancy or maternity. However, it is very justified to lay down in Belgian legislation that when maternity leave is taken up, the week before the expected date of delivery is a week of compulsory rest to protect the health of the future mother and unborn child. It is important that no work benefits are provided during the period around the expected date of delivery. Moreover, as part of the strengthening of the social status of self-employed women and the reconciliation between working life and family life, it has been possible since 1 January 2017 to include the optional half-time period in which the self-employed person carries on his normal professional activity for a maximum of half-time. If delivery takes place before the date fixed by the doctor, the mandatory rest period of two weeks from the date of delivery will have to be extended, as the case may be, with the full week of compulsory pre-birth rest not yet recorded, or the balance of the week of compulsory pre-birth rest not taken up by the self-employed person as a result of the early delivery, so that it reaches an uninterrupted rest period of at least three weeks, as expressly provided for in the regulatory texts. The non-recorded week of compulsory pre-birth rest or the balance of an incomplete week of compulsory pre-birth rest due to pre-birth will therefore have to be recorded immediately after the two weeks of compulsory childbirth rest. There is therefore no problem for self-employed persons in the event of an early birth that days of maternity rest would not be included. The current rules do not contain an explicit provision governing the consequences if the selfemployed person would have continued to work during the compulsory pre-birth rest. The RIZIV benefits service has also confirmed to me that the current letter to the attention of the insurance institutions does not contain any concrete instruction on the precise implications for the right to maternity benefits for the self-employed in that situation. Nevertheless, I believe that the refusal to grant maternity benefits for the entire period of maternity rest where the selfemployed person has still exercised her professional activity during the period of compulsory pre-birth rest is disproportionate. In such a situation, only the payment for the week of compulsory pre-birth rest in which work was carried out should be refused, having regard to the failure to comply with the prohibition on continuing to pursue a professional activity. However, maternity benefits may be granted for the remaining period of maternity rest. In that context, it should be noted that the exercise of a professional activity during the week of compulsory pre-birth rest results in the refusal of the full weekly benefit, irrespective of the number of days of pursuit of the professional activity. In fact, maternity insurance for selfemployed persons grants weekly benefits. However, it is useful to recall the objective of mandatory pre-birth rest. In particular, it is an essential rule for the protection of the health of the future mother and unborn child. The RIZIV Benefits Office organises monthly consultations with the National Intermutualist College on benefits in which legal and technical questions on the application of the rules are discussed. During that consultation, new letters of conversion or adjustments to existing letters of conversion shall also be dealt with for the attention of insurance institutions. This will ensure a uniform approach. On my question, the issue of the exercise of a professional activity during maternity rest will be discussed at the next meeting, on Thursday 3 February 2022. The aim is to refine the letter on maternity rest for self-employed persons and assisting spouses by explicitly including some specific instructions where the self-employed person would have pursued a professional activity during the period of full maternity rest. The amended letter for the insurance institutions will be available for publication in the short term. In my view, therefore, it is not necessary at the moment to take additional measures, such as an adaptation of the rules. Moreover, in recent years, the RIZIV Benefits Office has not, by means of specific questions or cases, identified any major problems by the selfemployed or insurance institutions as a result of the cessation requirement of each occupational activity during the compulsory period of maternity rest. The principle of mandatory childbirth rest is already mentioned on the various websites today. The form for the application for maternity benefit which the selfemployed person is required to send to the sickness fund explicitly states the principle. The various actors are therefore already making several efforts to provide the self-employed with the necessary information. A clarification of the proportion of compulsory maternity rest can still be added to the information to the self-employed. The Benefits Office does not have statistical data on the number of selfemployed persons who would have been employed during the compulsory week before childbirth or during the rest of the weeks of maternity rest. There are no figures available for the amount of maternity benefits that would have been refused. Finally, it is also provided in the context of maternity insurance for employees that the period of maternity rest can only be reimbursed in principle on condition that the beneficiary has interrupted any activity, i.e. the activity of an employed person, but also activities such as selfemployed persons or controlled unemployment. There are no statistics available on the number of workers who would not have complied with the prohibition on the pursuit of any activity during maternity rest. However, regulations relating to employees fall within the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the measure as applied by Christian Mutuality was disproportionate and I am pleased. We were all impressed by this poignant situation. The last week before childbirth is intended as protection, but those who continue to work are entitled to the remaining period when the activities are interrupted to be together with the child. I believe that we must strive to ensure the best possible protection of motherhood. I've heard that mutualities sometimes apply the scheme differently. Most mutualities found the application disproportionate, some didn't. Perhaps it also depends on the individual consultant, but I find that again disproportionate. I therefore believe that it is a good thing that you are working on a uniform approach, which you pass on to the various mutualities. The benefit will no longer depend on the mutuality with which one is affiliated or on the consultant dealing with the file. I regret that there are neither figures nor statistics. Anyone in the same situation is entitled to the same protection and benefit. That is why I propose that we actively check whether there are still people who miss maternity benefits, people who miss the first, so important time with their baby. I believe that further steps can be taken to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u10	Minister, I remember that there is nothing in the law that justifies such a sanction. You rightly referred to them as disproportionate. The CM is the only health insurance fund it has ever applied, and then apparently still depending on the consultant who is on the line. One would think that if there is any doubt about the interpretation of a legislation, one call to the RIZIV would not be too much to ask, but apparently it is. You do not have figures on the number of files of other self-employed persons who have been in a similar situation to Mrs De Vos. It seems simple to me, there is only one sanction at issue, and that is a sanction for the CM, who knowingly and willingly started to interpret it in a dogmatic way. It is up to the sickness fund to dig up and correct the files of the other victims, who will probably only be with the CM. As far as I am concerned, there should be a penalty, because it is not the first time that a sickness fund has acted as a judge and party at such a time and in such a way. I suppose I'll have to record this with Minister Vandenbroucke, where the problem really is, but he's quite happy to pass his questions on to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u11	Mr Minister, it is quite right and logical that you should call the refusal of the allowance disproportionate for the entire period of maternity rest. It is very good that the next National Intermutualist College, together with the RIZIV, will consider a refinement of the letter to arrive at a more uniform approach. That is absolutely necessary. I would like to ask you to find out whether in the past there have been other mommies in a similar situation and to regularize this if necessary. This should be possible on the basis of the current letter of conversion. This will also be discussed during the consultations between the RIZIV and the NIC. That seems logical to me, because these situations also need to be corrected. I regret that there are no statistics available at the RIZIV. There may be no statistics on it, but there are certainly still such cases. It is not unthinkable that mothers did not receive the income to which they were entitled. All these cases need to be regularised, all these situations need to be corrected. It should be possible to put that question on the table during the consultation on 3 February between the RIZIV and the Intermutualist College.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u12	Minister, I am pleased that, like my fellow Members, you feel that the measure taken was disproportionate. Without distinction between majority and opposition, everyone agreed on this across party boundaries. The problem lies in the interpretation possibilities of the Royal Decree, which have been used wrongly in this case. I had called for consultation between the RIZIV and the sickness funds and I am pleased that you indicate that this consultation is already taking place this week. Hopefully it will lead to a uniform approach for all health insurance organisations and also within the sickness funds themselves. There can be different interpretations depending on the person. It must not be allowed to be left to arbitrariness. Finally, I find it strange that there is currently no statistical data available on this subject. We will therefore have to ask the various sickness funds how many refusals there have been over the last five years, for example, and for what reasons. I fully understand that, in some cases, action must be taken against flagrant abuses. In this case, however, it has been stated that a few days have gone by to help colleagues out of need. Losing a few days, I can still understand that, although that's not really the point. However, it must not be the full amount. It cannot be so difficult to obtain these statistics. On the basis of the total number of births of self-employed workers and workers, a figure available to us, can the mismatch be determined? It is even easier to obtain the figures directly from the sickness funds and, after analysing them, to see which women were denied the benefit in recent years, in order to compensate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It has already been said a few times, but it is good that you are sure that the measure is disproportionate. This situation has received attention, but our concern is that there may still be such situations and that even more people are in that situation. You also indicated that the legislation does not need any adjustment. I can understand that. You also said that the legislation is clear to you. Clarity, however, means that this must also be clear to all mutualities, so that they can get on with it in that way. After all, someone was denied the benefit, which has a very big impact. That's what happened. I understand very well that it should not have happened. I also regret that there are no figures. After all, we are talking about a single case. This has also been explicitly expressed by the other authors. However, as I mentioned, we certainly need to get a look at the people who may have been in the same situation in the past. For us, it is about equal treatment of all the dossiers. I therefore hope that this can be investigated. It was also an explicit question for me to make sure that there are still people in the same situation and to ensure that they are not denied benefits that they should certainly have received.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u14	I would like to reply, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u15	That is why I was asking you about this at the beginning of the debate. Of course, Mrs. Reuter, if you have a reply to make, I don't want to deprive you of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u16	I'll be brief. I would like to thank the minister for clarifying the situation very well, because it was really extremely important. I will insist on this meeting between INAMI and the Intermutualist College on 3 February, which will certainly make it possible to further refine things. With regard to cases of which we are not aware, this meeting will clarify everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u17	Mrs Houtmeyers, before addressing your questions about the advance to the social insurance funds, I can tell you that your information concerning the postponement of payment and the impact on social rights is correct. Indeed, it has always been my express wish that the postponement of the payment of the provisional social contributions for the pandemic years 2020 and 2021 would not have an impact on the granting of the social rights of self-employed persons. In order to be insured for medical care, the self-employed person with the social contributions of the year N-2 must be in order. In concrete terms, this means that the self-employed person must have paid the social contribution or is exempt from payment. For the year 2022, it shall be the provisional social contributions of the 2020 contribution year. If the provisional social contributions were the subject of a deferred payment, the social contributions had to be paid by 2020 by 15 December 2021 at the latest, so that there were no problems with the insurability of the reimbursement of the medical care of the legal year 2022. In addition, for self-employed persons who, despite the benefit scheme of deferment of payment, could not pay their social contributions within the deferred payment period, provision was made for the possibility of concluding a specific pay-off plan for such social contributions. In compliance with this payment plan, the social rights of the self-employed concerned are not affected either. In other words, even after 15 December 2021, the social insurance funds, for the social contributions covered by such a pay-off plan, will provide contributions from 2020 to the sickness funds in the course of December 2021, thus ensuring insurability in 2022. I hope that this detailed explanation proves enough that the fear is unfounded. As I pointed out in the Committee on Social Affairs of 27 October, if you are aware of specific cases or are in contact with self-employed persons who have questions or doubts concerning the postponement of payment or payment plan, you may contact the social insurance fund to which he or she is affiliated. The social insurance fund is and remains the first partner of the selfemployed person concerned and is obliged to inform him or her. Of course, the self-employed person concerned is also always free to contact my administration, which prepares the instructions for deferment of payment and payment plans. As regards your first question, a draft law is currently being discussed and considered for 2021 to provide for an advance on management costs again by 2021. As for your second question, the RSVZ has granted the social insurance funds an advance on the management costs of EUR 9,722,000 for the dossiers relating to the postponement of social contributions for 2020, and an advance on the management costs of EUR 6,241,000 for the dossiers relating to the exemptions from social contributions for 2020. On 30 September 2021, the social insurance funds repaid EUR 4,500,000 of the advance on management costs granted for the dossiers relating to the deferred social contributions and EUR 117,000 of the advance on management costs granted for the dossiers relating to the social security exemption.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u18	Thank you very much for your explanation, Minister. I am absolutely pleased to hear that this information is correct so that we can give it to self-employed people who still have doubts. They do not always find the way to these social insurance funds for more information. It is certainly also a good thing that additional options have been created, such as payment plans, so that they can be guaranteed security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u19	Questions Nos 55023287C by Mrs Els Van Hoof and 55024362C by Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u20	Madam President, Minister, you are obviously aware that many sectors of economic activity are still affected by the consequences of the pandemic that we are going through. Fortunately, thanks to your action and that of the Vivaldi government, a whole series of measures are being taken to support workers and self-employed people through, among other things, bridge law. Nevertheless, it is my responsibility that certain sectors such as pyrotechnics are affected by the current system of bridge law. In order to benefit from this aid, it is requested to justify a decrease in turnover per month compared to 2019. This seems logical except that for some sectors this is a problem. Indeed, what falls within the scope of pyrotechnics, for example, is seasonal. In a calendar year, the beginning of benefits begins in the carnival period - following the years of late February to Easter - and ends a little before the summer period. This means that, despite the preparatory work done for the benefits, there is no issuance of invoices before the final realization, i.e. early March. The same is true for the months of June and November, i.e. almost half a year - seven months of billing over the year. As a result, bridge law is not granted for every month, even if they have worked. Minister, has your administration been informed of this issue? Does the problem mentioned for pyrotechnics concern many other sectors? Do you think there are any solutions? The justification of the part of the turnover per quarter of VAT reporting could be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u21	Mr Bayet, as you know, I am in contact with many sectors. Many of them are still affected by the current crisis. I am obviously very sensitive to each of the realities that are told to me. With regard to the social status of self-employed workers, I have endeavoured to put in place, as early as January 2021, measures of support which are as compatible as possible with the situation of self-employed workers marked by a restart of activities in different phases. In my view, and also in the opinion of the social partners in the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers, the turnover of the activity as the main indicator and condition for granting the aid, regardless of the sector of activity concerned, is a fair and balanced criterion. As you indicate, the decrease in turnover is examined by comparing the turnover of the previous month's month of demand with the same month of 2019, the reference year. This system was designed on a monthly basis and with ex post checking procedures, to allow for the rapid granting of financial assistance. I therefore do not think that the system should be changed for activities that are seasonal, since they were seasonal in 2019, that they are still seasonal in 2021, and that they will still be seasonal in 2022. I do not think that it is possible and desirable to change the system for such activities. On the other hand, if there is a decrease in turnover, whether in the high or low season, and they are under the conditions, they obviously have the right to bridge. But I do not think that the system should be changed in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. The calculation is carried out on a monthly basis, so that what was seasonal one year is obviously the other, but the administration obviously does not do the same analysis, which is a problem for a whole series of operators in our country. I propose to send you a note containing their arguments so that you can see how best to help them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic679x.u23	Thank you. Indeed, it will be easier for me to look more specifically at this subject relating to this specific sector.
