ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u1	Mr President, that is the advantage of having postponed my questions. They are grouped together and I open the session. We must see a certain positivism. Minister, my first question concerns the management of the Interior CPS. As you know, the Chair of the Internal FPS Steering Committee took office about a year ago. A year is the right time to take stock of this management. Therefore, my questions are as follows. What is the state of management within the Inland FPS? What are the major changes that this new President has been able to bring about? How does the cumulation with his acting director of the Civil Security DG take place? Is this one still relevant? When is a formal assessment planned for Ms Szabo?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u2	Mr President, dear colleague Chanson, although the form may surprise me, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to affirm here the confidence I have in the management of the department for which I am responsible. As far as the state of management is concerned, to repeat your question, four term positions are currently vacant in my department. The proper procedures are under way at the Selor and are expected to be completed by the summer. I would like to highlight the commitment and investment of the agents, as well as of the senior officials currently engaged in vacant posts ad interim. I can only note the particular attention paid by the President to the support of the latter in the discharge of their duties. I cannot, of course, in the time allotted to me, mention all the changes initiated by the President. However, I would like to highlight the approach taken by the Commission in managing the complex events that marked the beginning of its mandate. It has not hesitated to take charge of itself, whether at my request or on its own initiative, of various projects, which, in my view, demonstrates its commitment and tenacity. As part of the management of the computer incident in which the department was subjected, it is a radically new approach that is proposed for the reconstruction of ICT. A new ICT governance and organizational model is emerging. During the dramatic floods of the summer of 2021, it was essential in my view to highlight the President's particular support for the proper functioning and coordination of the Flood Recovery Support Unit. I also note the President's direct desire to boost within the department the implementation of the multi-annual plans adopted by the government in areas such as the fight against poverty and the integration of gender mainstreaming or the Handicap plan, as well as to support and develop the New Way of Working (NWoW). Finally, I was able to appreciate the relevance of the top-down and bottom-up approach developed as part of the preparation of the new strategic plan. In view of her appointment as Chairman of the Management Committee, Ms Szabo's temporary appointment as Director General of DG Civil Safety ended on the evening of 14 February 2021. Ms. Szabo's term as Chair of the Executive Committee began on February 15, 2021. In accordance with the regulations, each holder of a management function shall be evaluated annually for the duration of his or her term of office. However, the first cycle of evaluation begins at the beginning of the mandate and ends on 31 December of the first full calendar year. Each cycle ends with an interim evaluation. As the first evaluation cycle ends on December 31, 2022, Ms. Szabo will be invited to an evaluation interview at the end of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u4	Minister, in her recent compliance report to our country, GRECO assessed the measures taken by the Belgian authorities to implement the recommendations made in its assessment report adopted in December 2019. In this regard, the evaluation of the implementation of Recommendation No. 22 was of particular interest to me. As a reminder, the compliance report states: "GRECO recommended that police officers be required to communicate their police status when they are subject to an investigation or criminal conviction and/or to inform the relevant internal integrated police service of such an investigation or conviction. The Belgian authorities state that, at present, there is no legal provision for the communication obligations mentioned in the recommendation. To require a member of the police force to mention this membership requires the adoption of an explicit legal provision." Minister, what legal provision should be amended to implement this recommendation? What do you intend to do to apply it? Is a bill to that effect in preparation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u5	Mrs Chanson, the adaptation of a legal provision requiring members of the police services to systematically state this status when they are subject to judicial investigation would run counter to the various fundamental principles of law such as the right not to be self-incriminating, the right to silence and the principle of equality before the law. The same principles also preclude a legal provision requiring police officers to inform their disciplinary authorities that they are the subject of a criminal investigation. I refer in particular to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court in this matter. Other mechanisms already in place meet the objective pursued by the GRECO recommendations while respecting the above-mentioned legal principles. With regard to the provision of information to the judicial authority as a member of a police service of the person being prosecuted, circular COL 4/2003 of the College of Attorneys-General on the discipline of the police services provides that the magistrate may apply to the administration, in case of the Federal Police, for confirmation that the person concerned is a member of the police personnel and to be informed of the unit to which he belongs. Where the person concerned enjoys an anonymised status under the Code of Criminal Investigation, a specific procedure shall be followed. With regard to the provision of information to the internal control service or disciplinary authority on the existence of a criminal investigation or conviction against a member of the police service, this obligation of information does not fall on the staff member concerned for the above reasons but on the judicial authorities. The above-mentioned COL 4/2003 sets out the procedure and procedures by which the judicial authorities inform the police disciplinary authorities of the existence of an ongoing information or judicial investigation against a member of the police and of convictions or other decisions taken by the substantive courts. The same COL also provides for information to the Minister of the Interior through the Inspector General of the Federal Police and the local police. Article 14 of the Organization Act for the Supervision of Police Services provides for the information of Committee P.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u7	Mr President, the pandemic that we have been concerned about for two years now, but which is slowly ending, as well as the floods last summer, has recently shown us the importance of the National Crisis Centre (NCCN), one of the Directorates-General of the Internal FPS. I am also thinking, of course, of the attacks in Brussels in 2016 and even further, of the nuclear accident at the IRE site in Fleurus in 2008. At every emergency in Belgium, NCCN staff were able to support the ministers, governors and mayors concerned. It is therefore essential for me to ensure the proper functioning of this body. The Director General of the National Crisis Centre has been in office since 1 March 2017. It comes to my mind that this year the mandate of the Commission is coming to an end and that it must therefore be subject to a five-year evaluation. It is therefore an important moment to take stock of the management carried out in recent years within the NCCN. While the essential role of the NCCN is no longer to be demonstrated, it is up to me, however, that some management problems are unfortunately to be deplored and have increased in recent years. For example, many employees and directors have left the Crisis Centre for the past three years, which must not fail to challenge us. Indeed, these departures weaken the NCCN: they are less experience and expertise to manage future crises. Moreover, there appears to be strong tensions with trade union representatives. However, you know that consultation and social dialogue are essential to the proper functioning of any administration. Minister, can you confirm that the director of the Crisis Centre will soon be assessed? If so, when will this assessment take place? Can you also give me details of how this assessment is to be carried out? If the evaluation results were negative or unfavourable, what follow-up would you expect? Can you confirm to me the departure of many employees and directors in recent years, by detailing in addition the number of current NCCN employees, their distribution in administrative rank and their linguistic distribution? Can you confirm to me the ongoing discussions with NCCN union representatives, as well as the content of the disputes that seem to paralyze internal reforms for several years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u8	Mr President, Mr Song, as you rightly mention, the importance of the National Crisis Centre in managing many crisis situations cannot be underestimated. The transformation carried out by the current Director General within the Crisis Centre has been able to show strong resilience in extremely difficult circumstances. We had five federal phases in 2021. To this end, the Crisis Centre enjoys a great deal of national but also international external recognition. The term of office of Bart Raeymaekers, Director General of the National Crisis Centre, will expire on 28 February 2023. According to the regulations, the final evaluation of the holder of a management function must take place six months before the expiry of his mandate. Mr Raeymaekers' final assessment must therefore be closed before 31 August this year. The evaluation of Mr. Bart Raeymaekers will be carried out by the Chair of the Internal FPS Steering Committee, as the first evaluator, and myself as the second evaluator. At this stage, it would be entirely inappropriate to anticipate a positive or negative outcome for a mandate holder at a time when the final evaluation procedure is under way. The number of departures from the Crisis Centre is 19 for 2020 and 20 for 2021. These departures were offset by numerous entries into service during the same period. Thus, the total number of staff in the Crisis Centre increased from 156 on 1 February 2020 to 175 on 1 February 2021 to 204 on 1 February 2022. It appears that the turnover within the Crisis Centre is more important than in the other departments of the Internal FPS, i.e. 6.6 per cent. It is 7.6% in the civil service in general. The reasons for starting out are diverse (new challenges, internal changes, pensions) but are of course also linked to the exceptional circumstances that the Crisis Centre has faced over the past two years. The 204 employees of the Crisis Centre are as follows: 114 men and 90 women; 116 Dutch-speaking and 88 French-speaking. The administrative ranks are as follows: 3 General Advisers, 9 Advisers, 119 Attachés, 25 Administrative Experts, 2 Technical Experts, 2 Financial Experts, 2 ICT Experts, 22 Administrative Assistants, 4 Technical Assistants, 1 Administrative Assistant and 15 Technical Assistants. The reform of the working hours and the permanence of the Crisis Centre immediately raised concerns in the head of staff and resistance to change. Thanks to the open and respectful dialogue with trade union organisations, an agreement was reached very recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will come back to you around August as soon as the evaluation is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u10	In order to better manage potential floods and to be less deprived than last summer, it is essential to encourage municipalities to be better prepared to deal with this risk. As such, it is the role of the federal government to convince the municipalities to put in place certain arrangements. My questions are as follows: Of the municipalities affected by the last floods, how many had a Special Emergency and Response Plan (SRAP), particularly with regard to floods? Were those who did not have one encouraged to do so? Is assistance provided by the Crisis Centre in this task? Then, the Crisis Centre runs BE-Ready training for children and schools, in order to develop a true culture of crisis at home. Do you educate the mayors to set up these training courses in the communes, in the communal schools? It is my responsibility that knowledge of BE-Ready training is ultimately null and void since many schools do not know the existence of these trainings. This is obviously a pity because this tool, which has the merit of being able to be deployed in schools in our country. Finally, to date, how many municipalities have subscribed to a BE-Alert subscription? How can we ensure that they are more numerous and that in each of these municipalities at least one person is trained by the Crisis Centre to use BE-Alert? We have already been able to discuss this in other committees, but it is up to me that the communes are in the end poorly trained and poorly informed, some playing the game of the empty chair during training organised by the NCCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u11	It is the responsibility of each competent authority to analyse the risks in its territory and to organize the contingency planning accordingly. On the basis of this risk analysis, the mayor shall draw up a general emergency and response plan which shall contain the general guidelines and measures necessary to ensure the management of emergency situations in his territory. The Emergency and Response Plan is designed to provide a response to as many risks as possible and is developed as broadly as possible. In addition to this plan, the mayor also prepares special emergency and intervention plans to prepare himself specifically for particular risks, either because the legislation requires it or because the mayor considers it necessary. There are no regulations requiring a flood risk plan. It is therefore up to the mayor to decide whether such an emergency and response plan is necessary or to include the risk in his plan and to deepen it or not by means of an action sheet and/or a flood fact sheet. The Crisis Centre is responsible for providing support to local authorities in the drafting of their contingency and response plans. In this regard, an online tool to facilitate the drafting of these various plans and to ensure a degree of standardization in their development and structure has recently been developed and made operational on the national security portal. In the first half of 2022, the Crisis Centre will present this editor of emergency plans successively to all federal governors' departments so that this tool can be used efficiently by local authorities to draft a contingency and response plan. With regard to your question about BE-Ready, let me remind you that the Crisis Centre launched BE-Ready in 2019 and a corresponding communication campaign. In 2020, the Crisis Centre added a lesson on coronavirus to the program and repeated several communication actions. Through the federal services of the governors, we have always informed the local administrations of the planned actions and encouraged them to also work with this material. So far, 506 municipalities have subscribed to the BE-Alert system. It is important to support our outreach work to authorities that have not joined the BE-Alert system. This work is carried out continuously. Since the end of 2021, consultations have been held with the federal governors' services to identify ways to reach the municipalities that are currently not benefiting from the BE-Alert system. The departments of the governors of Hainaut, Liège and Namur are already working with the Crisis Centre to promote these consultations. As regards training in the use of BE-Alert, it should be stressed that, upon accession, the municipal authorities communicate the list of persons who have access to the system and who are responsible for using it in an emergency. Basic and free training is provided to each user.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u12	Minister, thank you for your positive answers. I think we're going in the right direction. I will simply note that, obviously, in some cases and in some municipalities, information is not passed on or distributed to the right people. I will therefore encourage you to continue or at least support these training and information campaigns, such as those you have already indicated in your reply. It is important to stimulate our communes and our communal agents so that they are well informed of what exists and what the federal government is putting in place. It also sometimes avoids criticism of our level of power and reminds us that in fact many things exist but are little or underused.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u13	Madam Minister, unfortunately I have another question about violence against policemen, this time in the local police area of the Puyenbroeck Region. Let me outline the facts because they are not negative. A vehicle showed dangerous driving behaviour. The driver was stopped and violently resisted his arrest. A cop got a cobblestone on the head and had to go to the hospital with heavy head injuries. He was also bitten in the hand. His colleague was also given blows. The suspect even tried to strangle him. Both agents had to go to the hospital and were disabled for several days. The defendant was suspected by the investigating judge in Ghent of attempted manslaughter. Madam Secretary, what is the current state of health of both agents? The facts date from February 16th. How long were they disabled? Do you know if the local corps has established itself as a bourgeois party in order to defend the law of the agents? Have the agents received any psychological assistance? Finally, I would like to repeat one more question. Will you urge the government and your colleague in the judiciary to take legislative initiatives in order to allow a heavier punishment of violence against police officers? If so, what specific initiatives are you thinking of?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u14	Mr Depoostere, two inspectors from the Puyenbroeck police area were involved in the violence incident. Both inspectors are happy, despite the serious facts, relatively good. One inspector insisted that work be resumed two days after the facts. He was the victim of a strangle attempt and received several blows during the facts. The second inspector got a heavy cobblestone on the head. He was diagnosed with a concussion, and he's being followed up neurologically. He was allowed to leave the hospital and recovered from home. He resumed work on 7 March. The police area is committed to the well-being of the employees. Both the Chief Constable and the Police College will take the necessary legal steps to support the staff 100% in the legal field. The police area will also pose a civil party for these facts in civil proceedings. Following these facts, the officer on duty of the judicial police and the officer on duty of the administrative police immediately came to the scene to provide the first psychological support to the two colleagues. They were also escorted to the hospital. In addition, two debriefings were organised, a psychological debriefing in the police station with the colleagues present a few hours after the facts and a second debriefing a few days later in the police station in the presence of the two inspectors. This involved the colleagues concerned and the HRM service, with a psychologist. In addition, individual psychological consulting was offered. In parallel, the police zone made the offer of support provided by the Federal Police Stress Team. Of course, we must strongly condemn such incidents of serious violence against the police. In that respect, I share your opinion. I must refer you to the Minister of Justice, who is also following this issue closely, for the prosecution and the punishment of violence against police or authority functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u15	Madam Secretary, we always agree that violence against police and emergency services should be punished more severely. You then refer to the Committee on Justice, which has to take initiatives in this area. I would like to give you two figures in this respect. 12,000 P.V.s are being prepared in connection with violence against the police. That's frightening. In the meantime, Mr Van Quickenborne gave me the figures on the number of prosecutions of offenders. That figure is frightening, dramatically low. There are less than 5,000 of them, half of them being dismissed. You know why that is. This is because for a very long time it has been necessary to be unfit for work, four months before legal action cannot be taken. One has to stop these dismissals. One should actually support agents much better, starting from day one. A number of parliamentary initiatives have been submitted by the Vlaams Belang. I hope we can find a majority for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u16	Madam Secretary, many police officers feel that the government doesn't really care about their security. Police union NSPV released last month that 800 police officers are being evicted with a bulletproof vest the expiration date of which has expired. The manufacturer of these vests is formal: after a period of use of 10 years, the material needs to be replaced. The response of the federal police spokesperson was hallucinating: "It is not because the warranty period has expired that the vests would not be usable overnight." He also put it in the conditional sense: "Should be." I can't believe it. Are these figures correct and are they indeed about 800? Which units of the federal police are or are not equipped with these vests? Do you have any idea when the expiry date of the bulletproof vests has expired? Is there an open invitation to tender to replace them? What was the delivery time requested? How many pieces are delivered? Is there one delivery or a systematic replacement? Are there different candidate suppliers, or are they using one fixed supplier? What is the total cost, both for the purchase and for the replacement? Who is responsible for the organisation of the purchase and the public procurement? Are any other bulletproof vests gonna fall off soon? When will there be an open invitation to tender? Is it acceptable for you to continue using bulletproof vests, even if the date has been exceeded? I am sorry to have to ask you so many questions, Madam Minister, but I hope you can give me some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u17	Mr Depoostere, it is important to clarify a number of elements concerning the lifespan of a bulletproof vest. There can actually be no reference to an expiry date, but to a manufacturing date and a warranty period. It is normal for a product such as a bulletproof vest to ask its manufacturers for a warranty period of at least 10 years. This is also the standard term for a guarantee given by the manufacturers of the basic materials, as is the case for the many other materials purchased by the government. In certain cases, as in the last market of the visible bulletproof vests, this warranty period was increased to 12 years. In any event, that guarantee period cannot be equated with the period during which these vests can be used safely. The material of the bulletproof vests does not degrade quickly and until there is no damage to the ballistic panels, there will be no deterioration of the material. That loss of quality is, in any case, very gradual. Manufacturers have already carried out studies on ballistic panels, looking for test methods to accelerate the effects of ageing and compare them with actual ageing, as is also done with other materials. When carrying out these tests, it was found that the protection of the bullet-proof vests still reaches the levels set after 10 years. This also explains why manufacturers offer a warranty period, because if they thought there would be a quality break within 10 years, they would obviously not offer that guarantee. In the studies carried out, the remark was made that the performance of the materials is linked to the treatment of the materials by the user over the years, which means that the manufacturer is not inclined to offer a guarantee for a longer period. That is also why these vests can in principle be used after 10 years, but the guarantee period is 10 years. On 22 February 2022, 352 federal police officers were equipped with discrete bulletproof vests with a manufacturing date prior to 2011 and 1,698 bulletproof vests officials of 2011. The operational staff involved in this issue comes from various units of the federal police, such as the Directorate for Protection, but also the federal judicial police. The public contract was awarded on 6 December 2019. The delivery period shall be 90 calendar days after the effective purchase order. In 2021 we introduced 2 purchase orders that are still running. For 2022, a budget of EUR 1.3 million will be allocated to the purchase of new bulletproof vests. By the end of this month, discreet bulletproof vests will also be ordered. In any case, 1,259 discrete bulletproof vests will be replaced over the next four years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for the figures you have provided. In this short period of time I have not been able to write down everything, so I will look at that later. I have certainly understood that two purchase orders from 2021 are ongoing and that some new bulletproof vests will be delivered in the future. The impression remains, certainly with the contacts I have, that there is a certain disorderly atmosphere surrounding the purchase of bulletproof vests. I am told that there is a shortage of bulletproof vests for the staff and that some policemen do not even have a bulletproof vest yet, which is why I will look at the figures mentioned, and that the replacement of bulletproof vests actually drags on. It is, of course, true that this is about a 10-year guarantee period, not an expiry date, which I can follow. It is true that the manufacturer refuses to extend the warranty period. No one knows where and where. In the meantime, our agents sometimes have to go into potentially dangerous situations. It is, of course, true that damage can be identified, for example when testing bullet-proof vests which are currently in use. However, this requires an annual check of the vests, but this does not happen. That's why I think there's something about the hot stuff. I am pleased with your promise to purchase new material. I hope that enough is being bought so that every cop can safely enter the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u19	Minister, Belgium has a two-tiered police service: a local police and a federal police. In the spirit of the 1998 legislator, the local police are intended to carry out basic police missions in a police area where they manage their judicial and administrative tasks. In the same spirit, the Federal Police is a more specialized body with specific tasks such as combating organized crime. The Federal Police only intervenes as a subsidiary of the local police when the latter is unable to carry out certain tasks in view of its size. However, the current situation shows that the structure and interaction between the two levels of police have reversed, contrary to the will of the police reform of 1998. Thus, in early February, the Director of the Judicial Police in Brussels asked for reinforcements to carry out his investigative missions to the corps chiefs of the six local police in Brussels – the logic of having six police forces for a single major metropolis will be revisited. It would appear that the judicial police are fully mobilized in the Sky ECC case. Minister, what has so far been a tactical success of the police and justice against the mafia risks becoming a Pyrrhus victory in the fight against organized crime. According to the field actors, from the Attorney General Ignacio de la Serna to the senior police officers, the investigations will cease for lack of investigators. Indeed, if it is the federal level that asks for the local level, the latter will be affected by the decrease in its human capacity, especially in our capital which has a staff deficit. Of course, there is already cooperation in Antwerp where the local police have acted as a complement to the federal police. And as you yourself recalled, it is good that the two components of the police work hand in hand. But collaboration should not be seen as a shortage. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you speed up the refinancing of the Federal Judicial Police and ensure that the funds released are translated as soon as possible into much-needed reinforcements in our police stations? In addition, can you provide us with details of the procedure and conditions under which the federal police can seek the assistance of the local police? What happens if the local police refuse to cooperate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u20	Minister, my question has been attached to those of my colleagues, but it specifically concerns the additional federal support for local initiatives. As you know, last year's federal financial support to encourage local police zone initiatives amounted to €8 million by 2021. In this context, a Royal Corrigendum Order was recently published in the Belgian Moniteur. It details these important federal financial means. The international events taken care of by the six Brussels zones are discussed. There is also the impact of the presence of prisons or cross-border infrastructure for certain areas of the country. The order further specifies a EUR 157 000 aid granted to the areas which have merged. This is an amount that is not insignificant at the time of underfunding and impacts for areas of action taken at other levels of authority. I would like some clarification on the latter amount. In this regard, the government agreement provides that the system of federal allocations to areas will be reformed to make way for a funding system "which also favours the optimal size of police areas", which certainly implies precise criteria. Minister, could you tell me how many police areas have been allocated an amount of assistance in a merger? How much was allocated to each of them? Under what scale of criteria are these amounts allocated? What types of expenditure within the police area is this allocation intended for? What are the responsibilities of the zones in this regard? Are there any specific requirements that are imposed on police areas in the context of this provision of additional resources? Should they be used exclusively to respond to the financial impacts of the merger?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u21	Dear colleagues, the government has taken full advantage of the challenges facing the Federal Judicial Police (FJP). In previous speeches, particularly at the plenary sessions on 3 and 10 February, the Minister of Justice and I have already discussed this problem at length and considered solutions. With regard to local police support to the federal police, there have been many instances of close cooperation between the two levels of police in cases that have both a local and a federal dimension. The 2002 General Prosecutors Circular provides, inter alia, for the possibility of mixed teams. In exceptional circumstances, it should be possible for the local police to engage more investigative capacity. Thus, the Integrated Police Act provides that the local police may, on an exceptional and temporary basis, contribute to certain federal investigations at the request of the judicial authorities and through a binding directive of the authorities. With regard to the situation of the PJF in Brussels, I follow the file closely and have written to the Commissioner-General on this subject. I have asked him for a concrete plan of action on how to remedy this situation in the short and medium term. It should be noted that recruitment has been decided, but the PJF has not yet found enough candidates for all vacant positions. In order to deal with this situation, measures are taken both in the short term and at the structural level. In the short term, efforts are already under way in close consultation with the judicial authorities with a view to prioritizing missions. If reinforcement is to be found in the short term, it is first up to the Director-General of the Judicial Police to examine the desirability of using lateral support between directorates, taking into account, inter alia, the capacity situation of each directorate separately. At the structural level, measures must also be taken to address the FJP's capacity problem. I am thinking in particular of improving the attractiveness of its jobs and of measures to speed up the entry into office of specialised employees. These measures are under consideration, in particular, in the context of trade union discussions on the qualitative aspect of the sectoral agreement. Colleague Taquin, on your first question, I invite you to introduce it in writing. The merger is a lump sum amount of €157,500 granted to police areas that have legally completed their merger process and are not eligible for the special bonus. This amount can be paid to the police area in several years, depending on the appropriations available. In the case of an endowment, no evidence is required from the policy areas to justify the use of the credit granted. To obtain this incentive, the only obligation of the police zone is that the merger be legally finalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u22	Minister, thank you for these technical reminders of the current configuration. I am also pleased that you have been following the Brussels situation closely. As far as reinforcements are concerned, I hear things are going on. However, I particularly insist that we get to concrete things quickly so that these reinforcements can be created. In the field, police and prosecutors are in real need.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u23	Minister, thank you for this answer, which confirms that effective merger is the only undeniable criterion. With regard to the questions you have not been able to answer orally, I will send you a written question for all the necessary clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, situations that are turning to drama are again being seen repeatedly and precisely in my region of Charleroi. As a reminder, there were 18 femicides in our country last year. In fact, there are more attacks on women in our country than in other European states. As part of the work of the Health and Home Affairs Committees, we have taken initiatives in this area, including motions for resolutions, as you know, to the government. Measures had been taken to strengthen the fight against domestic violence. At the level of police services and front-line actors, such as official pharmacists, measures are also being taken to identify situations at risk, support victims and remove them from dangerous isolation. However, we had to see the repeated horror again: three dramas, femicides, in my entity and in a neighbouring commune, in a few days. You know that it is still difficult to detect these situations when police areas are already overloaded and understaffed. In addition, a national plan of action to combat gender-based violence was planned, but at the same time, support for victims was simply being cut off for local areas. I am thinking of regional victim assistance grants. The National Plan provides for the involvement of 17 ministers. If it is a necessity to bring everyone together in this struggle, it may also be a risk of inertia. Collaboration is therefore essential in terms of prevention, vigilance and control, not only between public and state services but also with the field community. Could you then tell me precisely, but very simply, what new measures to support local police areas are you planning to implement to strengthen specific monitoring actions against these risks? How does the Department of the Interior participate in practice in the implementation of the National Plan of Action to Combat Gender Violence What concrete initiatives are planned for this purpose in the coming weeks under the new National Security Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u25	Mrs Taquin, as you point out, attacks on women are always too much drama, which, although difficult to detect, remains unacceptable. In this particularly sensitive area, I would like to inform you that the Interministerial Conference on the National Security Plan, which covers this issue, is scheduled for tomorrow. It seems to me appropriate to wait for the results of the meeting in order to better determine the lines that will be further developed in the fight against domestic violence. In addition to the ongoing consideration of the recommendations made by Committee P on this subject, I can only go back to the elements of the reply recently given in a debate on the subject, namely: - training and awareness-raising of police officers on the specific issue of domestic violence; - the financing of specific initiatives within police areas; - better referral of victims by the police to external services. During the co-vid period, the GPI Task Force took urgent and exceptional measures to combat domestic violence by calling on police areas to pay particular attention to this issue. It is clear that police services are expected to remain vigilant once the period of co-viding is over. I have already referred to the National Plan against Gender Violence of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, which initiated an interdepartmental working group involving the police services. I am pleased to note that a series of actions and initiatives are finally being taken in this area, in collaboration with my colleague the Minister of Justice. I am confident that even more concrete measures will soon be taken to prevent and reduce these tragedies as much as possible, on the one hand, and to offer better follow-up to victims, on the other. In concrete terms, I will mention the "harassment alarm" project launched by the Ghent police zone, which will soon be deployed in the provinces of East Flanders and West Flanders at the initiative of the Ghent Public Prosecutor's Office. Once this system has been assessed, the intention is to implement it in the rest of the country. The "harassment alarm" app can be granted to victims of recurrent crimes by the same perpetrator. For example, he may be an ex-spouse who is in a life-threatening situation. I support this type of initiative. By launching such initiatives that focus on the needs of the victim, a range of measures will be developed to combat these unacceptable phenomena. I would like to encourage cities and municipalities and police areas to take initiatives. In this context, I have already informed you of my call for projects with cities and municipalities to combat domestic violence. Through the Royal Decree of 27 October 2021 determining the arrangements for granting a subsidy to the municipalities in the framework of the Vulnerable Groups Task Force, I wish to grant subsidies in order to support the municipalities in the fight against domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you for the answers you have given. I understand, of course, that, given that an important meeting is taking place tomorrow, you will come back to us with much more detail. I know you and I feel you are aware of this problem, which is indeed very serious. At the local level, it is also important to reassure the population. Women must be reassured about the measures that have already been taken and which still need to be taken in practice to avoid this. I also hear about initiatives such as the "harassment alarm" application. I will follow this closely, provided that the result is positive and that it can be extended to the whole country, as you recommend. I have a request to you regarding the call for projects in terms of domestic violence and initiatives that can be developed locally. Could you make an inventory of the answers already obtained? Could you consider extending the appeal deadline? I know that many communes and many police areas would have wanted to respond but needed more time to make a full file. It is known that the communes and police areas have been so strongly affected by the covid crisis that is not yet over. They are rightly sought in helping Ukrainian refugees. Finding time to look at a case isn't always easy on a day-to-day basis. Could you be careful about it? It would be a nice gesture for the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u27	Question No. 55025628C by Ms. Leen Dierick is not relevant, since the author is not present. Question No 55025655C by Mrs Yngvild Ingels is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u28	Madam Minister, every day in this monstrous war in Ukraine puts a little more emphasis on the nuclear risk. This afternoon, it has just been reported that electricity has been cut off at the Chernobyl plant to cool down the installations. We learned last week that the largest nuclear power plant in Europe had been targeted by Russian fire and bombardment. In general, Putin's nuclear threat is known. The object is obviously not to start playing on fears. I think it is important to remain excessively factual. At the same time, it is true that the Belgian population has a lot of questions. It is also seen in the withdrawals of iodine tablets in pharmacies. I believe that the figure of 32,000 withdrawals had been reached on February 28, and I have no doubt that you will have more precise figures on recent withdrawals. I have three types of questions. The first concerns the communication of crises on these iodine tablets, their effectiveness and, more generally, the nuclear risk posed by the war in Ukraine. As far as iodine tablets are concerned, I think it is important to ensure very clear communication to the public. I hear that some people imagine that these tablets should be ingested as quickly as possible, and that is absolutely wrong. What do you think are the target audiences for these tablets? How do you cope with the growing demand in pharmacies? It would be interesting to hear more concrete figures on the number of withdrawals, which had exploded. Is this demand ever growing? Second, with respect to the validity period of these tablets, it is known that the 2010-11 batch had a validity period of 10 years, and that the batch is renewed from year to year. Today, the 2010-11 lot is valid until May 28, 2022. Has Sciensano been able to confirm the period of validity beyond that date, which is fast approaching? Finally, as far as the security of our nuclear power plants is concerned, have you taken any additional steps, both physically and in terms of cybersecurity, to enhance the protection of our power plants? Have we received specific guidelines, for example from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which closely follows what is happening in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u29	Madam Minister, I submitted this question last week, following the announcement that on Monday 28 February more than 32,000 boxes of iodine tablets had been removed from Belgian pharmacists in one day. When I had to go to the pharmacy the next day for my son, I actually heard customers asking for iodine tablets, and the pharmacist explained that they are not necessary for people over 40. Those people were obviously worried and looking for correct information. When we see what's happening in Ukraine, it makes sense for people to worry. There were reports of the military takeover of Chernobyl and of that nuclear power station, one of the largest in Europe, where there would have been fighting and where there would have been a fire, which was eventually put out. Against this background, correct information on nuclear safety should be priority number one. That was the purpose of my question, namely to ensure that the information is correct, for the Members of Parliament, but above all for the citizens who belong to these messages and who crave the right information. I also asked you about the iodine tablets last year. You then indicated that less than one family in three had brought such a box into the house. So there is still a lot of work to be done to ensure that these iodine tablets are spread better. In the current situation, it is important that people have those tablets in their homes, but even more important that people also know when to take them and when to be effective. How does the Crisis Centre, the FANC and the Expertise Centre assess the nuclear risk after the events in Ukraine? Do you think it is appropriate to advance the campaign on iodine tablets? If not, why not? The centre of expertise was still lacking in several technical agreements that had to be formalised in relation to certain partner services. In reply to my question of October last year, you indicated that this was being done. In the meantime, where does that stand? Has Sciensano's research into the shelf life of iodine tablets been completed? If not, when is that planned? If so, what was the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u30	Colleagues, it is difficult to give all the details and figures within the given time frame for answering a question. I will give you an overview today, but I also refer to the planned meeting of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety on 15 March. The Crisis Centre and the FANC will provide a detailed explanation there. With regard to the radiological situation of nuclear sites in Ukraine, so far radiation levels have remained in normal condition at all sites, and no nuclear or radiological incidents have been reported. This analysis includes not only sites located outside the combat zones, but also sites that were damaged or affected during the fighting, such as the Chernobyl plant, the Zaporijia plant, the Kharkiv Institute of Physics and Technology or the radioactive waste disposal facility near Kiev. As far as Belgian territory is concerned, I confirm that no abnormal increase in the level of radioactivity has been measured. So far, events in Ukraine have not created any risk to the Belgian population and the environment, and no specific measures should be taken with regard to Belgium until now. There is currently no indication of an increased threat to specific facilities or critical infrastructure in Belgium, but it is clear that we are following developments very closely. In view of this, there is currently no need to raise the level of alerts in Belgium. Belgian nuclear sites, of course, remain under heightened vigilance. In this context, greater vigilance is required with regard to cybersecurity. In addition, permanent structural initiatives on cybersecurity are being taken by the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB). For more information, I refer you to the CWB and the Prime Minister. However, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which is the leading international interlocutor during this crisis, the situation in Ukraine remains a matter of concern. A meeting of the IAEA Board of Governors was held on 2 March to discuss the situation in Ukraine. The IAEA remains in close contact with the Russian Federation and Ukraine in order to ensure respect for the seven essential pillars of nuclear safety and security. It also expresses its readiness to visit the Chernobyl power plant in order to provide technical assistance and to obtain commitments from both parties to ensure nuclear safety and security in Ukraine. For Belgium, the National Crisis Centre (NCCN), the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) and their national partners, of course, continue to monitor the situation in Ukraine very closely. The CBRNe Centre of Expertise organizes effective event monitoring and risk analysis. The NCCN and AFCN will continue to inform the Belgian population via their social networks, the AFCN website and the NCCN website to inform the Belgian population about the situation in Ukraine: info-ukraine.be With regard to the recommendations, they remain the same. Having iodine tablets at home remains a good preventive measure for people under 18 years of age, pregnant or breastfeeding women, as well as for people living in the immediate vicinity of a nuclear site. The benefit-risk balance remains less evident for people over the age of 40. Remember that taking iodine tablets is a complementary measure. The main measures, regardless of age, are intended to minimize contact with possible releases. In view of the current interest, new copies of the explanatory brochure on iodine tablets are also planned and made available to pharmacies. Iodine tablet distribution figures are monitored monthly. In February 2022, a total of 12,556 packs of iodine tablets were requested in pharmacies by citizens. The shelf-life of iodine tablets is at least 10 years. The shelf life of iodine tablets with a production date of more than 10 years is tested annually by Sciensano and extended each time for a period of one year. Finally, it should be noted that, for years, the federal government has been making every effort to organize or participate in nuclear emergency planning exercises in a cross-border context. NCCN and AFCN participate annually in exercises organized by IAEA and the European Commission. In 2022, Belgium plans to participate in four international emergency planning exercises of the IAEA, spread throughout the year. In addition, as part of a European Commission project on Emergency Preparedness and Response, Belgium will participate in a multi-phase exercise in March and April this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u31	Minister, thank you for these answers. We will, of course, go into more detail and depth at the hearing held next week with the nuclear safety sub-committee. However, I would like to send a more political message. The Belgian people are concerned and, in my view, are legitimately asking many questions about the current situation, whether it is the biggest nuclear power plant, Chernobyl or Putin's threat. The question that arises – and which unfortunately is no longer science fiction – is: what to do in Belgium in case of an increase in radioactivity, in case of an increase in radioactive contamination on the Ukrainian side? This can of course take different forms, but it seems to me important that our government agencies be able to answer these questions in a reassuring, objective way. Certainly without dramatization, but in a complete and transparent way. For the moment, I have searched in vain for this information on the website info-ukraine.be which refers to the website of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency which itself gives the same information and refers to the website info-ukraine.be. We therefore turn in circles as the Institut de Radioprotection et de Sûreté Nucléaire (IRSN) in France and the German government have taken the initiative to provide multi-page files on the actions to be undertaken, the existing risks and the prevention to be implemented, including at the level of schools, communities, sports clubs, etc. It seems to me very important to provide as much information as possible in the face of such a nuclear risk. It is better to have too much information and prevention than to have to cure the evil a posteriori.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I like to divide my reply into two parts. Firstly, you indicated that you would go into the nuclear safety sub-committee for the follow-up by the FANC and the National Crisis Centre of the current crisis situation in Ukraine. At present there is no risk for Belgium. However, when we hear that electricity is out and there is no answer to the question of whether the cooling of reactors can continue to be sufficiently guaranteed, it is very important that the FANC should keep a close eye on the situation. It is therefore a good thing that next week, in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, we will be able to discuss the problem in greater depth in order to be able to ask a number of technical questions. Secondly, clear communication is incredibly important. We must ensure that people have sufficient information. I heard you explain that there is sufficient communication via the FANC's website and via certain digital channels. That is true, but we must not forget the digital divide. There are also people who do not have access to that information. In that case, the pharmacist is a very important person. I heard you say that new leaflets are being distributed to pharmacists, which is indeed very important. However, we must work as much as possible to ensure clear and broad communication. The federal government could play an important role in this respect, by bringing that information to the people through other channels. This can reassure them and inform them correctly as to whether and when to bring iodine tablets into the home and when to take them. I therefore continue to call for increased attention for clear communication. I also ask you to take them into your hands as soon as it is necessary to reassure our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u33	Madam Minister, the annual report of your administration, on which I asked you a question last time, shows that targeted actions were carried out by citizens in terms of monitoring and control of persons with a view to ensuring security in places that are or are not accessible to the public. Even when so-called stewards or infocoaches supervise people in publicly accessible places, this is contrary to the law governing private and special security. According to an article in the media, the mayor of Ghent would have asked you to review the law. In fact, in the news, I saw that you visited the notorious Overpoortstraat. What initiatives will you take in this respect? Will you regularise supervision by so-called stewards on the public domain? What personal and training conditions will you attach to this? Within what framework and with what powers will the stewards be allowed to carry out those surveillance activities? Or will you argue for strict application of the law to private and special security? How will you then ensure that citizens are not encouraged to engage in such activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u34	Mr Depoostere, security and the maintenance of public order on the public road is basically a public task. The starting point is therefore that safety oversight of citizens' behaviour on the public road cannot be passed on to private authorities or citizens. Private authorities may, in certain cases, subject to, of course, inter alia, the provisions of the Law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security, engage in activities that require a certain level of safety oversight and control of the behaviour of persons. With regard to the deployment of public regulators, it should be noted that other public security functions, in addition to the police, can also exercise a certain security oversight over the behaviour of citizens on the public road. For example, the law on Community Guards establishes a clear legal framework for the deployment of staff in the service of municipalities for the exercise of certain public road surveillance tasks. The regulatory framework today does not allow the use of persons outside that framework to carry out such monitoring tasks or surveillance activities. When I visited the city of Ghent, I found that there is a practical question to evaluate and possibly extend the current framework in order to ensure security in the public domain. This question, including from the city of Ghent, is justified in order to make greater use of prevention in the field of safety surveillance and thus to involve other people than the police, for example. Local authorities, both the administration and the local police, are already testifying that this kind of mediation between the government and the citizen can be seen as a good complement and thus a preventive complement to security oversight. In the meantime, I have asked my administration to map out all possible practices and to evaluate whether or not the law on community guards, which is fairly strict today, needs to be adjusted to perpetuate the finality, in particular to provide a comprehensive and appropriate legal framework for all municipal non-politic security functions, such as prevention. In any case, local authorities can always contact the administration for questions relating to the rules applicable to the various safety professions, as well as for clarification of how they can be used in the proactive safety policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u35	Madam Secretary, what is missing is clarity in the field. You speak of examples of practice, of course, but the problem is that they do not have a legal framework. You are now saying that you will consider whether the law on the community guards needs to be adjusted. That law does indeed exist, but the function of community guards gets a very different interpretation from some local authorities, including in Ghent. I am not against being able to employ citizens via the municipalities, but this must be done within a legal framework. If not, the uncertainty remains and there must be a clear distinction between maintaining public order, which must of course remain a public task, and preventive mediation by community guards. I hope that you will come up very quickly with a legislative initiative in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u36	Madam Minister, on February 24, you indicated that the confirmation of the supplementary budget allocated to the salary corrections of the federal police and local police areas, decided in the interim agreement, was to occur during the budgetary control of this month of March. You also indicated that the discussions had to be finalised no later than the end of the year, in view of the 2023 budget. It is indeed essential, as the agreement of these negotiations begun at the beginning of 2021 will enter into force in January 2023, and considering that notice of strike is still effective, it seems to me. We are approaching this moment of budgetary control. I would therefore like you to inform us of the specific preparations you are making at this level for the forthcoming budgetary discussions and in view of what happened in 2021, particularly during the preparatory budgetary discussions in October 2021. Moreover, at the level of the local authorities, on 9 February, for example, Brulocalis split into a press release entitled: "The Minister of the Interior is on her own." On February 23, the country's three municipal organizations indicated their doubts about federal commitments to fund the measures that will come into effect in 2023. Therefore, while it should be pointed out that negotiations have been successful, the situation still seems unstable and it is probably not good to be in such uncertainty. What arbitrations have already taken place in anticipation of the next budgetary control? What are your specific demands and demands in this context? What specific budgets are involved in these upcoming arbitrations? Is there any or all of the 121 million announced? Furthermore, how have you been able to move forward with all the police unions and local authorities in the second part of the negotiations on the qualitative aspects of police working conditions? What response did you provide to the three municipal organizations in the country that wrote to you on February 22nd? In concrete terms, what is your schedule of work until the 2023 budget is designed to avoid reviving the legitimate trade union movements of our police officers that occurred at the end of 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u37	Mrs Taquin, as you know, the interim agreement we have reached concerns the quantitative part, namely wage increases. After 20 years of salary scale, staff will receive a salary increase of 40 to 70 net euros per month. For administrative and logistical staff, the difference with the civil service will be eliminated. In the meantime, we are also working on a qualitative aspect by which the necessary adjustments are made to make police professions even more attractive. Funding for the interim agreement will be further discussed within the government. At present, this budget discussion is being prepared from a technical point of view. In order not to complicate these discussions, I consider it appropriate not to make detailed or definitive statements on this subject. But this debate will take place within the government, as has already been announced and even discussed. A list of topics that both the local, federal police and trade union organisations consider as priorities, and which is therefore to be included in the qualitative part of the sectoral agreement, has been drawn up. On this basis, I would like to begin negotiations on a first draft text on the qualitative aspect of the sectoral agreement, in the Police Services Negotiating Committee, in which the representative trade union organisations, as well as the local authorities represented by the three associations of cities and municipalities, and the Standing Commission of the Local Police are represented. I have contacted the associations of cities and municipalities. The aim is to meet with their representatives as soon as possible in order to find answers and ways of resolving the questions they raise. I would like to see with them what is possible on the federal and local sides. Before making any major statements on this subject, I think it is necessary to start this conversation first with them. Then I'll come back to you. However, I can already tell you that I am here to support the issue within the government, so that funding for this interim agreement can be made from federal funds. I will try to convince my colleagues in the government that the bill for this agreement must be honoured by the federal authority, in order to minimize the consequences for local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for these points of answer. You insist on the quantity, the net monthly salary increase you are announcing. Your attention is also focused on the logistics and the difference with the civil service that will be removed, as you say. Your attention is also focused on the attractiveness of the trade in budgetary discussions with the government. Of course, we understand that it is with the government that we need to discuss, but you tell me that you are well prepared and that, in any case, there is a willingness to achieve a change in the situation. You also announce that you are working on the qualitative aspect. You are entering into negotiations with the trade unions, the Unions of cities and municipalities. As mayors, we hope to be a little more solicited because the message does not necessarily always reach us correctly. The more diapers there are in the lasagna, the more distilled and the less you feel like you're being consulted. That's how it is! Standing committees at the local police level will also be invited, heard and agreed upon. I can hear you. I will continue to follow this closely and you have closed your answer - thank you - by pointing out that you are counting on maximum federal funding so as not to weigh the bill on the local level. That is what we all expected as communal leaders. You know that in any case you have my support and certainly that of the various mayors who make up the assembly. I encourage you to continue the effort. You're not alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, during the storms between February 17 and 21, we were again able to see a number of shortcomings in access to information and communication, but also on the online site 1722.be, while coordination continues to lack density and efficiency. Indeed, there have been numerous accounts of the impossibility, at times, of joining 1722, while just over 49,000 calls to 1722 have been recorded. On the other hand, 1722.be also seems to have been broken, while the form is described by the administration as the best and most direct support for the citizen who wants to know about the situation he is suffering. Anecdote: in preparing this question, I went to site 1722.be and the first page poses a problem. While it welcomes and proposes to choose its language, French is not found there, but twice English, once Dutch and once a tab called "Netherlands". With regard to information to local authorities, some weather reports were provided, including one on Saturday at 7:16 p.m. warning that since 7 p.m., the yellow alert had been transformed into an orange alert in Hainaut province, without any additional information. You have already been able to reply to my colleagues that a very structured procedure is established, from DG Civil Security to the Crisis Centre to the Governors. This is obviously a good thing, and progress has certainly been made in this area in recent years. He is to be greeted because the work is difficult and particularly specific. Precisely, during these storms, evaluation and coordination meetings were held. As you said: the report of each meeting was systematically and directly sent to the governors. It also appears that an increase in staff, both professional and voluntary, had been planned in the civil protection barracks. Minister, what reports other than MRI information are made at the coordination meeting with the Crisis Centre? What are the reports that are sent to the governors? What protocol is in place to ensure coordination and information of firefighters' interventions with provincial and municipal departments that are required to intervene in the field, for example in the event of road damage? How many people are currently working at the call-receiving stations in 112 and 1722? What is currently the lack of staff relative to the organizational framework? Considering the planned risks, how many additional professional personnel and volunteers were planned in the two civil defence barracks for these storms from February 17 to 21? How many additional people have been planned to strengthen call centres 112 and 1722 from February 17 to 21? At which power plants? In order to clarify this, based on the assessments carried out, what is the estimate of the number of calls that a call centre can handle over an hour during a yellow alert and an orange alert?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u40	Mrs Taquin, I invite you to introduce all the questions for which you are requesting figures in written form. It is important to note that the purpose of 1722 is to reserve emergency numbers 112 and 100 for emergency calls. The aim is not, therefore, to provide immediate assistance for non-emergency appeals, which is often totally impossible, given the fact that weather causes a large volume of calls and that the means of emergency areas are limited. During the last weather, firefighters had to intervene several days after the weather. With regard to the reports of the coordination meetings, I will focus here on the documents transmitted to the Governors. You can refer to my answer to Mr Boukili's parliamentary question at the Committee on 23 February 2022, for details, the composition of these meetings and their objectives, as well as for the composition of the information unit and all the actions taken on communication. The Crisis Centre carried out its active monitoring role by collecting useful information and alerting its partners, but also played its coordinating role by deciding to organize an evaluation meeting very quickly on 17 February at 1.30 p.m., and several coordination meetings, such as the one on 17 February at 2.30 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. and the one on 18 February at 7.45 a.m. In terms of communication, it may also be pointed out that the Crisis Centre's communication department has organized a consultation with the provinces that were in orange code in order to coordinate their communication. Of course, civil protection was prepared for storm Eunice. At Crisnaeus, there were means of sealing as well as equipment such as trucks equipped with a nacelle, cranes, telescopic trolleys, compact loaders of the Bobcat type, Unimog type trucks, chainsaws, etc. for the clearing of the highway, which is one of the flagship missions of civil protection. The service was in stand-by and ready to take action. The same equipment device was present in Brasschaat where the number of operational units had been increased. On Friday evening, 18 February, additional operational officers remained on their own initiative. A call had also been made for volunteers to make themselves available in numbers. These people were at home and unpaid. As there have been few calls, they must not have taken action. By 21 February, no additional availability had been required. In answer to your last question, the establishment of such protocols does not fall within my competence. The emergency areas are responding to it. When an emergency area response has been completed, the person responsible for the response may, if necessary, notify the authorities competent for the rehabilitation of roads. The coordination of road rehabilitation is not the responsibility of the missions in the relief areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will come back to you by asking you written questions to receive the requested figures. I hear what you're saying and I see that the effort is there. There are developments (crisis management, meetings, cells), but I would like you to think about the mayors who must receive the information and have all the tools in hand to anticipate and respond to the citizens in a very limited time and whose fear is exploding. In my commune, we did not experience any drama during this storm. But we have been very much solicited. I regret the transmission of the information before it arrives in the hands of the mayor who has to deal with the situation on the ground. It is by e-mail that we receive, from the Governor, weather warnings or recommendations from the Crisis Centre. This means that the mayor must be constantly connected to his e-mails while a problem can occur at any time of day or night. We receive them but without the eye being attracted to a signal like "emergency message". If at least the title included "important message from the governor" or "important message from the Crisis Center" or if at least the sender contained the name "Crisis Center"! We don't get that. These messages are sent by agents who are changing whose names are not known. I have discussed this with colleagues who all regret this. I don't know if the situation is the same in all provinces. Would it be possible for the mayors to receive a text message from the Crisis Centre alerting them that they have been contacted by email and that they can have information to properly manage the situation? We're not being contacted live, and we're going to pee, during those storm days. I myself did the exercise of making contact, I went to see on the Internet, I was really looking for communication tools that I could have used and shared directly so that the citizens had the right information, which would have helped to avoid that number of calls around 1722 and to steer either towards 1722 or towards 112. However, we did not have this immediately available and we were not notified live. This is what we regret: we come at the end of the race, while we are the first on the ground and at the front against the population that we must preserve and inform at best and very quickly. I'm at your disposal to talk about it anytime you want. It's really about living.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u42	Minister, nitrous oxide is only detectable in the body in the event of overdose. However, even though we have been able to ban the sale of this gas to miners, the diversion of nitrous oxide consumption creates increasingly repeated risks to road safety. Faced with this phenomenon confirmed by Vias, however, the well-informed police services seem limited in their intervention measures. As is well known, article 37bis of the Law of the Road Traffic Code does not mention nitrous oxide, nor article 63, in the context of the possibility of taking blood from a driver. However, section 8.3 of the Highway Traffic Code requires a driver to be physically capable of controlling and manoeuvring his vehicle. On this basis, police officers have the opportunity to find an offence. Minister, are these instruments really useful and sufficient to combat the consumption of nitrous oxide by inhalation? What specific and precise guidelines are given to the police on this phenomenon of hilarious gas consumption? What measures are planned to act when police officers suspect that a driver is under the control of this gas? At present, what is the development of police findings of the use of such nitrous oxide capsules in driving? Is an encrypted reporting done at this level? What initiatives have you taken and intend to take to try to curb these consumptions and therefore these road safety risks? At this point, do you consider these legal tools sufficient to counter this situation? Is it expected that diverted consumption of nitrous oxide will specifically include road safety awareness campaigns? Finally, are any changes to this legal framework envisaged by your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u43	Mrs Taquin, there is currently no precise and specific directive for police services on the phenomenon of hilarious gas consumption. In practice, when police officers suspect that a driver is under the influence of this gas, a report is drawn up on the basis of Article 35 of the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police. The hilarious gas precisely causes short-term euphoric and sedative effects and this can lead to speech disorders, dizziness, slow reaction, insensitivity to pain and noise. If such symptoms are found, the person concerned is often in the condition referred to in article 35 I have just mentioned. In this context, there may be application of Circular COL 9/2006 of the College of Attorneys General of 31 March 2006 on a uniform criminal policy for the immediate withdrawal of driving licences. In this case, the offender also commits an offence under section 8.3 of the Highway Traffic Code. It is therefore the driving behaviour caused by the inhalation of this gas that can be verbalized. Nitrogen oxide is not mentioned in Article 37bis of the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police. In addition, the hilarious gas is not detectable using a breath test or salivary test. In addition, in the laboratory, hilarious gas is very difficult to detect because of its volatility and the fact that it is eliminated very quickly. As a result, there is no numerical reporting on this subject, as the hilarious gas is virtually undetectable on the ground. There is no specific initiative in this area. However, the police force is making an increased effort to combat driving under influence. Given the current lack of feasible scientific techniques in practice to detect nitrous oxide, we consider that the existing legal tools to counter this situation, as demonstrated by the Vias Institute, are sufficient. With regard to your question on awareness raising, I refer you to the Regions, which have competence in this field. Finally, with regard to your last question, an analysis of the changes to this legal framework is not envisaged by our services as hilarious gas is currently virtually undetectable on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u45	Madam Minister, I have submitted a question on the series of attacks and arson attacks in Brussels. On the night of Tuesday on Wednesday, a police department of the dog brigade with molotov cocktails was bombed in St Lambrechts-Woluwe. Apparently, the same revenge was also taking place in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek. I'm not just talking about revenge. That is also what the mayor of St. Lambrechts-Woluwe says and some policemen on the premises explain. That is why I have a number of questions. Is it true that this is a revenge? Have the young people concerned been arrested before? What facts were they known for? What were they up for? Were there any surveillance cameras active, both in the Sint-Jans-Molenbeek Police Commissioner and in the Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe Commissioner? Did the analysis of the footage lead to the identification of the offenders? According to the police unions, such facts are being used in Brussels, because I quote 'drugs and youth gangs have seized power in certain neighbourhoods'. What is your action plan, to restore order and security? There would have been a crisis consultation between police forces, which took place on 2 March 2022. Did you know about the outcome of the crisis talks? What specific measures have been taken? Will the surveillance of police commissaries in particular be strengthened? Are there enough surveillance cameras? Are they being monitored? If not, are you planning to increase the number of cameras? Finally, will you or will you not provide temporary support in terms of the number of VTEs for the federal police, in order to strengthen surveillance? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u46	Mr Depoostere, the judicial investigation into the facts is still ongoing. You will understand, therefore, that I cannot answer several of your questions. It is premature to provide a detailed report on the material damage. However, for Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe the following damage can already be confirmed. Three service vehicles are completely out of service. Part of the building, owned by the municipality, has been burned down and needs to be rebuilt. The local police zone can also temporarily no longer use the building. In addition, certain pieces of ICT material and furniture have also been damaged. In Sint-Jans-Molenbeek, thanks to the rapid and appropriate action of police officers who assured the reception, the damage in the Commissariat was limited. It's a scorched carpet and slight fire damage to the rotating entrance door. Fortunately, it is exceptional that the Montgomery police area is facing such a serious incident, but there have been some armed incidents on the territory of the Brussels-West police area in recent months. The facts have been established and in the meantime a judicial investigation has been initiated under the direction of a magistrate, together with the federal police. In both zones, these phenomena are recalled in the Solar Safety Plan and in the following action plans. As far as camera surveillance is concerned, I can tell you that the vast majority of Brussels police buildings are under camera surveillance. If there was a need for temporary reinforcement of the surveillance of the buildings, the zones could always ask for it at the DirCo. It will then examine, in consultation with the zones, how this aid can be effectively delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Of course, we will not interfere in the judicial investigation, neither you nor myself. I can understand that. I would like to ask you to listen to the signal the police unions and police officers are sending from the field. I have been told that in the Montgomery zone a consultation was already held on urgent measures on the day itself, but that the Brussels-West zone apparently planned that consultation by 22 March 2022. I think that's too little, too late. We must not allow such phenomena to develop until worse things happen or a dead person suddenly falls. No one can predict, in the event of such an attack with incendiary bombs, if anyone is present in the building. The consequences could have been much more severe. I'm counting on you not to wait for casualties. Hence my call that you would play faster on the ball, that you would help finance the security cameras where they are needed more quickly, and that you would play faster on the ball wherever additional staff are needed. All this in order for our police officers to do what they serve, namely to preserve the security of our society. Thank you in advance for your cooperation in this area, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u48	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u49	Mr Depoostere, your question concerns the level of security and risk analysis for potential targets in Belgium. At the request of the government, the OCAD has carried out a broad threat analysis, focusing on specific issues such as our critical infrastructure, the Belgian diplomatic interests in Ukraine, the diplomatic Russian, Belarusian and Ukrainian interests in Belgium, the cyber threat and, of course, the international institutions established in Belgium such as the European Union, NATO and SHAPE. The various diaspora are also monitored, but no incidents have been reported to date, even during the various events that have already taken place. It goes without saying that the OCAD will be assisted by the various competent intelligence and security services. On the basis of an initial assessment, the National Crisis Centre has taken steps to adapt the security measures where necessary. The OCAD and the partner services shall continue to monitor the situation and, in any event, update the threat analysis where and when necessary. The current general threat level for Belgium on terrorism and extremism is level 2. That's the average level. An attack is unlikely, but the threat is still present. The OCAD does not comment on specific sites that are currently at higher risk, but the presence of the quoted international organisations is a continuing concern for Belgium as a host country. Police services carry out tasks primarily in the fight against cybercrime. With regard to the cyber threat, there are currently no indications of an increase in cyber attacks on our infrastructure. The federal police closely monitor the situation, in close consultation with all European partners. Europol also plays an important role in analysing the threat at European level. Information is exchanged daily. The specialised services of the federal judicial police were alerted to the importance of vigilance and a rapid exchange of information in the event of threats or incidents. In the short term, it is not possible to increase the number of specialists suddenly. Nevertheless, the federal police have already expressed its need as part of the Cybersecurity 2.0 strategy. This need is currently being analysed within the National Security Council. For the other intelligence and security services, I would ask you to submit your questions to the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u50	Madam Minister, I will answer your suggestion and ask the other questions to Minister Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u51	Madam Secretary, last week there was a Panoreportage about the popular rape drug GHB, which disappears very quickly, after 6 hours from the blood and after 12 hours from urine. So the first hours after the facts are crucial. In the report, two victims spoke: one who had ended up in a care centre after sexual violence, and another in an ordinary hospital. The procedure was completely different. In the care centre after sexual violence samples were immediately taken from the incoming victim, subject to permission of course. Then the victim has six months to file a complaint. If no charges are filed, the victim will also be called. However, the other victim was told on arrival at the hospital that nothing could be done for her there, that she had to go to a police commissioner first, file a complaint there and then return. It was a quarter past 2:00 in the morning, and that girl took another five kilometers to the police department. That's how a lot of hours are lost. Moreover, a victim should not get on a bike at such a time to go to the police! Are you aware of the problem? Will you allow the police to go to hospitals? Even if there are more care centres after sexual violence, some hospitals will still not be connected to such a centre. There's a difference in procedure. Can't the hospitals take samples before there's a complaint to the police? A few months ago, it was about sexism patrols you set up in the cities. That is a very good initiative against sexual violence on the streets. Isn't there any way to extend that to the nightlife so that so many more of those who do drugs in cocktails can tie up?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u52	Of course, I am aware, together with the police, of the phenomenon of the administration of rape drugs, which has recently received a lot of media attention. Since this is a crime, it is up to the prosecution, the prosecutor's office, to give the police the necessary instructions on this issue at police and forensic level. In doing so, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall take into account the specific characteristics of the drugs and the specific modes of operation of the perpetrators they administer. For more information on this, please refer to my colleague in the Justice Department. At my level, I want to ensure that the police have the necessary knowledge through training and resources to collect the forensic evidence for further investigation. This specific police expertise is already deployed in the Health Care Centres after Sexual Violence (ZSG) through the victim genes and the police sex inspectors. Justice, Health and Home Affairs have jointly taken the initiative to set up these care centres in specific hospitals in order to be able to take care of the victims there 24 hours to 24 hours and provide appropriate assistance, not only in medical and psychological terms but also in the forensic investigation, complaint submission and subsequent follow-up. That's not the case in every hospital. The care centres are concerned with specialised, multidisciplinary victim care. This is offered not only in Antwerp, but also in Brussels, Hainaut, Ghent and Liège, and new centres are being opened in other provincial cities. Not every hospital has the appropriate expertise in its home and therefore it has been chosen to set up one such centre per province. There is also a reflection on emergency services to improve the approach in hospitals. We must always provide the right multidisciplinary assistance to help victims in the best possible way. Victims who register in hospitals where there is no care centre are in principle referred to the ZSG in another hospital in the province. This does indeed give the right follow-up. I cannot, of course, comment on the specific cases. In any case, there have been agreements between the hospitals and the care centres about this communication. For this, I refer you to the Minister of Health. You cite a number of good practices in the Brussels areas. Other police zones also actively combat the phenomenon of street intimidation. Together with the Minister of Justice, I would like to learn from the examples and publish best practices in the police areas. For example, in the context of the national action plan on gender-related violence and in the brochure No. 21 to combat sexism in the real public area of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights together to send a letter of awareness to all police areas and public prosecutors and to encourage them to take similar initiatives so that victims can better find their way to aid and police services. Sharing and spreading good practices across police zones and public prosecutors contributes to a better fight against the phenomenon, but also highlights that such criminal behaviour does not and never belong in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u53	You take the problem very seriously. The stealing could happen in the hospital before a complaint has been filed, but for that you will look at the instructions of the prosecution. The same applies to an arrangement where the police go to a hospital. I thought a Home Secretary could give that instruction, but you should wait for the D.A.'s office. I will then put both questions to the Minister of Justice, whom they had originally come to; but I wanted to ask you, since it concerned the police. I did not get an answer to my question about the expansion of sexism patrols. Of course, this requires consultation, as was the case when it was set up. If those patrols are really used in the nightlife, it's different than on the street. It is not clear who is intimidated; it amounts to a form of entrapment in which a person at the bar does not guard her drink. I am convinced that such good practices will prove their effectiveness, but that does not happen. I urge you to look together with the Minister of Justice to see if it is possible to make nightlife much safer. The drugs are apparently very easy to distil from antifreeze from a car. So it's not hard at all to get there. Such crimes will therefore increasingly be committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u54	Madam Secretary, at the committee meeting on 23 February, you said that you were working closely with the fire department to enable the wearing of a mobile camera. We had already noted a number of gaps and problems in the current application: uncertainty about the concept of intervention, the problem of pre-recording, the uniformity of the type of appliance, the retention period and so on. The COC had already issued an opinion on this in 2020. We are now finding that more and more police zones want to use a mobile camera during interventions. That is, in my view, a good thing. Madam Secretary, is your administration working with local and federal police to support the use and wearing of a mobile camera and its handling of good practices? Is your administration working on a decision to determine the technical conditions and minimum requirements for these mobile cameras, so that there is maximum uniformity on our territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u55	In support of local and federal police, the administration has initiated and supervised a scientific study entitled: Possibilities and challenges in the use of the bodycam by the integrated police. This study can be consulted on the website of the General Directorate for Safety and Prevention. Together with the police, my cabinet has prepared a draft law to amend the law on police duties, taking into account the results and findings of that study. The draft law will be submitted to the COC for its opinion, so that it can be followed up further. Today's guide to public procurement by the federal police sets the technical standards to be met by mobile cameras. Once the choice has been made in the context of the public procurement procedure, the local police will also have the opportunity to use this market.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u56	Thank you for the catch-up that you are trying to use with the bill. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, just a few hours ago the House set up the Trafficking in Human Beings Committee, showing the importance of combating trafficking in human beings for all parliamentarians and the whole of Parliament. Just a few days ago, an upbuilding article highlighted the following points made by Commissioner Eric Garbar, head of the Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings section of the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime: "The prostitution of minors is on the rise and we need means to combat this scourge. Today we are only eleven people. It's a weak team to support field investigators. We need results, we need means." Minister, what are currently the means within the federal police to combat child prostitution and trafficking in human beings in general? Are you planning additional resources? This fight against trafficking in human beings cannot only be yours, it is also the fight of the federated entities and your colleagues at the federal level. Is a cross-cutting policy being pursued or under development? This would provide more information on the prostitution of minors in our country, and would also effectively combat it, including by raising awareness and combating networks or individuals hiding behind this increase through the increased use of social networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u58	Mr Rigot, currently about 140 investigators are specifically assigned to the fight against trafficking in human beings and its various sub-phenomenes. The government has taken full advantage of the challenges facing the Federal Judicial Police, and the fight against this trafficking is certainly one of them. The Federal Judicial Police is currently facing a major challenge in the fight against organized crime in our country. In previous speeches in the House, my colleague the Minister of Justice and I have discussed this problem at length and considered some solutions. These include the replacement of departures and the additional engagement of investigators with the Federal Judicial Police. Other avenues are still under consideration. Once these reinforcements are in place, they will remain to be deployed. The fight against trafficking is certainly a priority. The draft national security plan also pays particular attention to the "loverboy" method, a practice where young men search on the Internet and the social networks of minors who lack affection or are ill in their skin and try to gain their trust. Then comes the emotional blackmail: they ask them to prostitute themselves to help them financially. At the initiative of the Federal Judicial Police, an awareness-raising campaign was conducted in September 2021 through social networks and the media on the occasion of World Day to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings. The campaign was supported by the Interdepartmental Anti-Trafficking Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Justice. The campaign was financed on the basis of European Impact funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which show that you and the government are anxious to provide the means for this day-to-day fight. This is a fight that must be strengthened, especially when it comes to minors who are still so much more vulnerable prey, towards these slavers, those who want to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u60	Madam Minister, the war in Ukraine is causing a great wave of solidarity in our country, and that is a good thing. Unfortunately, this war for people with bad intentions is also a unique opportunity. We must now anticipate this very quickly. In Het Nieuwsblad, the director of Payoke, the center specialising in victims of trafficking, said: "Mothers who have to take care of their child form a very vulnerable group in extremely vulnerable circumstances. It will not be long before many of them find themselves in a precarious financial situation, where they all need help. Those are dream victims for criminals like mob gangs, loverboys or pimps. No one doubts that people are ready to abuse these refugees in the most disgusting way." Of course, many other abuses are also conceivable. Therefore, Madam Secretary, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, there are already reports in Germany that women and young people who arrived at Berlin Central Station have been systematically approached by people with bad intentions. The investigation is already ongoing. What is happening in Germany is undoubtedly also possible in Belgium. Has the railway police at present been brought into increased vigilance with a view to detecting possible abuses, abuses or exploitation situations, to trafficking in human beings? What initiative have you taken, or what else will you do? What about the other police forces? Secondly, what will you do for the other public transport hubs? I am thinking, for example, of Eurolines and so on. There too, there is a particularly high risk of recruitment for malicious purposes. That's everywhere the Ukrainian transport arrives. Thirdly, what will you do for the detection of the various reception structures, where the risk will undoubtedly also be increased? Fourthly, what role does the FGP Human Trafficking Department play in all of this? What role do you plan to play for that department? Fifthly, we are told that some local police areas have now taken the initiative to carry out a screening of those taking care of them. That's what it turns out to be necessary. This should be the rule. Will you ensure that this is done systematically? Will you make sure the central police have access to the database, to do the screening automatically, or to coordinate them? Minister Van Quickenborne just replied to me in the Committee on Justice that, in his view, there is indeed a need for national guidelines for local police areas. What do you think of that? Sixth, there is also the matching with host families in the future at Jules Bordet or a possible other center. What role will the police or other services play in matching there? Is there a screening? Will there be a screening? Who's she gonna do or who's she gonna do? If not, will you take care of that screening? Seventh and finally, what other initiatives are you currently taking to prevent abuse, exploitation and trafficking in human beings in the context of refugees from Ukraine? What initiatives will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u61	Mr President, Mr Segers, in general, all the teams of the railway police are in any case alert to situations of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. Since a year there has been increased vigilance for the problem of the phenomenon. No cases have yet been identified for Ukraine's specific problems. However, it is clear that awareness will and must be made during operational briefings and meetings with the police leadership, so that the police are also more alert in the context of the flow of refugees from Ukraine. At the moment, we do not have any specific information or indications to indicate that there is trafficking in human beings or smuggling on our territory, related to the Ukrainian refugee crisis. The Central Service DG SOC Human trafficking and smuggling of the federal judicial police, like other partners, believes that there is indeed a risk that certain exploitation phenomena could develop. In this context, staff are aware of the information provided to them at both Belgian and European level. Depending on further developments in the situation, a different approach will be considered and specific guidelines will be passed on by my cabinet to the various services involved, including the federal police. Regarding the screening of refugees, a central screening under the direction of the DVZ is provided for Ukrainian refugees applying for temporary protection in Belgium. The allocation of reception places is made by Fedasil. There should therefore be no additional security screening at the time of registration. There's no extra screening foreseen for the federal police. For the other questions you are asking about refugees, such as matching, I would like to refer you to my colleague responsible for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic716x.u62	Madam Secretary, I asked you these questions about matching because I want to know the role of the police in this. And for that, Secretary of State Mahdi is not competent. To be honest, it doesn't make much sense to ask him that question. I would like to thank you for a number of other aspects of your reply. I have noted that, depending on further developments, a different approach will be considered. I think that is very conditional on something that we are absolutely certain will happen. The question is not whether exploitation and trafficking in human beings will happen, because it will happen. Where there are people in precarious conditions, there are also exploiters. We know that exploitation is going to happen. Madam Minister, I call on you not to wait for further developments to consider an approach, but to start immediately.
