ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u1	Minister, there is evidence of hepatitis of unknown origin in children. The usual hepatitis viruses do not appear to occur in those children. The World Health Organisation calls for vigilance and reporting of such cases. So far, one patient has been known in our country, unless you have any other information about it in a moment. Disturbing are the reports from abroad that quite a few liver transplants need to be done. Such a thing has a significant impact on a child, as in that case it will have to take life-long medication. Hopefully, we'll be able to figure out the cause soon. In the meantime, it is important to quickly detect and recognise these cases. In what way are the doctors informed in the first line? Is there a system of fast data collection? If so, what system? Is there also a detection system to identify possible common causal factors? Recently, I read in the press about a young patient with another condition waiting for a liver transplant, that it is difficult, among other things, to find donors due to the covid crisis. In the meantime, what is the status of the availability of donor organs? I realize that this is a bit out of the question. If you cannot answer it now, I will put a new question at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u2	Minister, there have been cases of hepatitis in children in many countries. In the meantime, we have heard how many cases have already been reported in our country. Are our universities or scientific institutions involved in research into this new form of hepatitis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u3	Minister, how and by whom will the phenomenon be monitored by us? Are we participating in the investigation into this mysterious form of hepatitis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u4	Mr Minister, I hear that colleagues are asking for figures. Those at my disposal report that there are approximately 169 reported cases of acute hepatitis in children between 1 month and 16 years of age, in 11 countries in the WHO European region and in one country in the WHO Americas region, including 1 case in Belgium. It is true that there is a significant concentration of these cases in the United Kingdom which has listed 114. Seventeen children required liver transplantation and at least one death is reported at this stage. A number of hypotheses are made: either the special adenovirus type 41 which, in healthy children, does not give hepatitis; it has been detected in at least 74 cases; or the consequence of a covid-19 or the occurrence of a co-infection or infection in a particular context of covid-19. My central question is this: what measures are in place in Belgium to identify, investigate and report potential cases? Early detection in children is vital. Are samples taken in a child with a suspicious picture centralized and typed? If so, at which laboratories? What measures are being taken to ensure that all health professionals have complete and continuously updated information?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u5	Mrs Merckx has been excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u6	There is no doubt, Minister, that the situation in relation to hepatitis must be closely monitored. The figures have already been mentioned, but yet I report that one patient died and 17 children had to undergo a liver transplant. According to the WHO, the tests revealed that there is no trace of the A, B, C, D or E hepatitis virus and that it would therefore be an unknown variant. In addition, in several cases, the coronavirus or adenovirus was also found in the patients. But according to WHO, the adenovirus is only one hypothesis and its presence cannot explain the severity of pathology. A possible cause might be found in the link with the Sars-COV-2 virus or a new adenovirus. The hypothesis that the advance would be linked to the lockdown, in which children had less contact with viruses in their early years, is also put forward. As a reminder, these are mainly children between the ages of three and five. Steven Van Gucht from Sciensano calls for vigilance. On the other hand, he sees no cause for concern. As the cause has not yet been confirmed, there are no specific recommendations. Of course, there are the usual hygiene measures. The World Health Organisation recommends that Member States continue testing and monitoring through the national hepatitis networks in cooperation with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control or ECDC and other organisations specifically for hepatitis and liver disease. Minister, what is your most up-to-date information, both on the causes and on the situation in Belgium? How are the national reference laboratories working, being Sciensano and the UCL Saint-Luc? How many level laboratories are involved via the hepatitis network? Have you learned lessons from the corona crisis at European and national level? Finally, our country signed in 2016 the target to eradicate hepatitis C by 2030. What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u7	Minister, several children have been affected by this new form of hepatitis, which does not correspond to the usual hepatitis, usually uncommon on children of that age. The prevalence here is mostly among children between the ages of two and five. Only one case has been found in Belgium, but we must be careful and vigilant. Sciensano warns us against this new form of hepatitis, the cases of which could multiply. Several children could be affected in the coming weeks. What is in place to detect and monitor the emergence of this disease in Belgium, particularly in children aged two to five years? How are symptoms reported and reported in our country? How are professionals informed? What information do they have today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u8	This was the last question in this topical debate. Does anyone else wish to intervene in the questions? It will still be possible to intervene in the replicas afterwards. I therefore give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u9	Mr President, this is a matter that concerns us and a lot of people in the meantime. It is good that Steven Van Gucht, who works at Sciensano, has already given a first general reaction, because Sciensano, alongside the FPS Public Health, plays a very important role in the follow-up to the issue. In addition to what has already been said by Mr Van Gucht, I would first like to give a general introduction to how we normally proceed and then I will go into the specific case. The public health institutes in different countries carry out continuous monitoring in order to identify a possible increase in a particular disease, a particular diagnosis or a pathogen in a timely manner. Even if one is not sure whether it is about an abnormal observation, one can already share a certain observation with the different countries in order to get a clearer picture of the situation if possible. If such an observation is shared, then we speak of a signal. That's the official terminology. Then only thorough further research can show whether the increased number of diagnoses is also more widespread in the other countries and clarify whether there really is an outbreak or whether the number of observations is actually in line with what we can expect with regard to the number of diagnoses. Following up on that type of signals is something that also happens continuously in Belgium by the Risk Assessment Group and the Risk Management Group. This is closely monitored by the FPS Public Health and Sciensano. At present, the status of the present signal on hepatitis is under investigation. That's jargon again. Pediatricians have also been questioned in Belgium to report possible cases that comply with the clinical description. Each notification should also be examined separately, at individual level, as it is important to establish accurately whether the reported possible cases actually meet all the criteria of the clinical description. This research is carried out by the regional health services. At present there is no clear conclusion on the signal we are discussing, there is not one particular germ to be identified in all possible cases. This, of course, also makes the follow-up of this signal more complex. Usually, from the beginning, there is one germ that can be identified as a cause, but the fact that this signal is based on a clinical image and not on one specific germ makes its follow-up more complicated. Last week, the European ECDC started a data collection to list and inventory possible cases. The fact that a mixed image emerges with possible multiple germs that are observed makes it much more difficult to draw clear causal conclusions. That is why ECDC has not yet come out with a final risk assessment and conclusion, although that was actually planned by last Monday. ECDC has therefore decided that it needs more time to get a clearer picture and to draw the right conclusions and to support them. We expect the conclusion of ECDC in the near future. That conclusion is, of course, also absolutely crucial for the attitude I will continue to adopt. The first point I would like to make is that there can be no unambiguous germ associated with what we are seeing here. In some children the adenovirus has been shown, in others covid has been shown, in others no germ was found. That's what complicates the investigation. It is also more widely considered whether there is a possible clinical image associated with, for example, two germs, a so-called co-infection. In any case, absolute numbers appear to be limited, even if the cases are looked at over several months. It can already be concluded that this has been a rare phenomenon to date, but due to the potential large individual impact in the United Kingdom, children already needed a liver transplant. However, we must follow all this very carefully and thoroughly. The clinical picture described is that of acute hepatitis in children. Most children are quite young, under 10 years old. It happens often that a child has acute hepatitis, that that diagnosis is made, but in those situations the most common cause is infection with one of the common hepatitis viruses, if I may put it that way, by which I mean hepatitis A or hepatitis E. The hepatitis B and hepatitis C virus are also known as possible causes of acute or chronic hepatitis diagnosis, although B and C are less likely in children, as their transmission is mainly sexual or drug-related. That is why we do not include the children in whom acute hepatitis is caused by one of the known hepatitis viruses in the follow-up study. We're looking for a possible additional explanation. The case definition therefore includes the criterion that at least hepatitis A and E should be excluded. The appeals to Belgian pediatricians have so far produced one confirmed case. The other reported and investigated cases were not found to comply with the full clinical description. Additional lab study, e.g., excluding a common hepatitis A and E infection.......................................................................................................................................................... It is also important to consider whether the observations made really differ from the normal numbers. It is common for children with acute hepatitis to be diagnosed and yet tested negative for common hepatitis viruses. So it has to be determined first whether what we're observing is really different from what we can expect, or whether it's in line with the usual observations. The RMG is currently working on a broader communication to report possible cases to regional health services. They will use the same questionnaire to collect information on cases. If new relevant information becomes available, a new writing will follow. There was a question about the targets by 2030. The targets for the elimination of hepatitis by 2030 are mainly aimed at hepatitis B and C infections. The signal surrounding this unexplained hepatitis in young children contains the criterion that routine hepatitis viruses are excluded. So this signal is not about hepatitis B and C infections. In this sense, this story is separate from those targets by 2030. In order to achieve the objectives for hepatitis B, the main means is to continue the vaccination of children against hepatitis B. We're finding a massive reduction in incidence in the vaccinated cohorts. Unfortunately, there is no vaccine for hepatitis C, but there has been effective treatment for several years. This has made the detection of diagnosed patients and their treatment one of the most important preventive measures. The national hepatitis plan therefore focuses mainly on the broad and smooth use of treatment and on the detection of undiagnosed patients, including drug users and other risk groups. Work is ongoing. I expect another discussion in the RMG over the next few days on the basis of the RAG's opinions. That is the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u10	Minister, you indicate that pediatricians were encouraged to report cases. May I conclude from this that the first line has not yet been written? You say the RMG is working on a broader communication. I believe that this could have been done before. The information already provided could have been grouped together in order to disseminate it as quickly and as widely as possible. I hope that the lessons we have learned from the covid crisis will be applied, namely that rapid, streamlined and unambiguous communication is important, especially in cases where children are involved and therefore rapid diagnosis is crucial. You also indicate that there is still a need to check whether the current number of cases differs from the normal number of cases. That must indeed be taken into account. Is there more attention in this matter to a particular condition, which results in more cases being identified, or is this not the case? I happened to have recently attended the Heliconcongres on epidemiology with regard to covid. There it was also indicated that baseline data are very important to be able to make comparisons. I hope that this is a reason to continue working on this data-driven health care policy. I will put an additional question on the issue of donor bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u11	Minister, it is indeed important to follow this up, and I will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u12	Minister, we will follow it up and you and the services will probably follow it up. This data sharing is one of the most important lessons from the covid crisis. There must certainly be attention to this and everyone must be on the right track. A colleague referred to the slope that says that the lockdowns caused children's immune systems to pause. I hope that this slope will be included and that the scientists will also take this into account. This may be one of the underlying causes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u13	Minister, early detection in children is vital and avoiding under-detection is equally vital. I am struck by the fact that there are 114 cases in the United Kingdom. Today, there is one case in Belgium but no one can say with certainty that there are no other cases that have passed under radars. Even if pediatricians have to notify cases, I think this is not enough because not all children necessarily go to the pediatrician. Remember, there are cases up to the age of 16. I therefore suggest that you provide for notification by all general practitioners as well as by the doctors of Kind in Gezin and the ONE. Sometimes there are somewhat atypical symptoms, which must lead to complaints that may evoke hepatitis. A blood sample is then required to search for disturbed liver enzymes that would demonstrate the existence of hepatitis, even if it is not severe. The same applies in the case of a blood test for a completely different reason which detects a disturbance of liver enzymes: it must also be notified. On the other hand, you have not answered me on the subject, but I hope that there will be a designated laboratory when there are suspicious tables – including in the blood samples – to be able to do the research at the viral level. Today, given the lack of certainty and the emission of several hypotheses, it is necessary to ensure that viral research and typing are always carried out in the same place to ensure an etiological diagnosis as soon as possible. It seems to me that we need to be able to extend the system in terms of information and notification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u14	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. I also asked you if you had learned lessons from the covide epidemic, because it was somewhat underestimated at first. I would like to return to my sub-question on the eradication of hepatitis C by 2030, although I realise that this has nothing to do with this form of hepatitis that we are discussing. I also ask the question because, last week, many social and health actors pointed out that we are still far from that objective. I quote a passage from Le Soir in this connection. "The goal of WHO will only be achieved if all those affected by this infection are detected and treated. This concerns the general population, not to mention drug users, the prison population and migrants. These audiences benefit too little from these therapeutic advances because they are on the sidelines of care. Meeting the public health goal of eliminating this disease therefore requires in-depth reflection on inequalities in access to care. This obliges us to rethink the provision of care in order to improve access to the most vulnerable, in the general interest. In the background, we find the stigmatizing collective discourse that existed in the AIDS years with a consequence on care as this discourse is shared by some caregivers. The excessive cost of antiviral treatments imposed by industry reinforces this stigmatizing approach." You have indeed said that there is an efficient treatment. That's right, that's the medicine Sovaldi, but that's why they're asking for 40,000 euros. Well, that's a problem, isn't it? All right, I took advantage of this topical debate on this new hepatitis to draw attention to it. I hope that some action will be taken to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to draw your attention to the need to clearly inform general practitioners and the first line beyond paediatricians, as well as nursery and childcare services. Everyone should be careful when in contact with children to identify and report any symptoms. This is what makes it possible to make a number of observations that lead us to define a profile and the risks. In addition, sharing of observations at European level is essential to detect the etiology of this new form of hepatitis as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u16	Mrs Fonck, I would like to return to your comment, but I think that it is also shared by other Members, about the doctors who will be the target group for communication. From the moment the report came in, the FOD and Sciensano had very close contact with the pediatricians. It is true, however, that a broader communication is being prepared. I must honestly confess that I do not dare to improvise about the precise target group of that broader communication. However, I do assume that this will not only consist of pediatricians. It was a bit of a matter of efficiency that we first of all got in touch very quickly with pediatricians, and did so thoroughly. It is indeed remarkable that we are getting a large number from the United Kingdom, a large figure, while we are talking about one confirmed case. I am afraid to say much about that. It will also be important to look at what ECDC says about it, because one has to have some kind of uniformity in the assessment. It's definitely a case to follow. All possible hypotheses must be kept open. Again, even if it is not about large numbers, for those individual children and their families that can be very worrying, terrifying and indeed very serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u17	Minister, I would like to ask you today to focus on this issue that is not being discussed. Psychiatrists, federations and unions, the Brussels mental health platform have asked you several times by mail since 2020. A concept note on the place of non-voluntary care in the mental health network was also sent to you in June 2021. There was no response or consideration on your part. Major difficulties encountered by approved services, overcrowded reception and hospitalization, intensive care and growing violence situations, insufficient supervision of caregivers, intensive social work but with too little supervision by social workers, financial difficulties due to non-payments and highly impoverished patients, all of which have only worsened since the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic. These patients have psychiatric and somatic disorders and are in particularly difficult social situations. There has also been a significant increase in forced admissions in recent years. Strengthening of the teams and additional financial support are therefore essential. You have announced plans to intensify high-intensity care units in psychiatry(HIC). But if there are already nine such services in Flanders, there are none in Wallonia or Brussels. A Brussels project was introduced several months ago but no response was given. In addition, HICs require the freezing of beds when there is a shortage of beds for observation, and they are not suitable units for observation and do not meet these specific needs. Minister, here I am relaying a call for help from the services. All calls, appointment requests, letters, concept notes have so far not been the subject of any return, of any reaction, while the reality on the ground is extremely difficult and delicate. Will you take into account calls from this sector? Do you measure the seriousness of the situation, the additional needs necessary to ensure quality management and support the teams?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, you probably know that the law on forced admissions falls within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. Under the previous legislature, a working group was established to deal with this issue. Several actors have addressed the elements of the law that need to be adapted. They have prepared a report in this regard, which is in the process of finalizing with the judiciary. In this report, the concept note on the place of non-voluntary care in the mental health network is repeated as a reference. More specifically, since the previous legislation, two calls for projects have been launched. Due to unforeseen circumstances, including the pandemic and the efforts that have had to be made in this context, a new call for formal projects has not yet been launched. However, project proposals have already been received. However, they do not comply with the conditions stipulated in the two calls for projects. Indeed, "Intensification" pilot projects must meet a number of conditions. In particular, the proposals must be harmonised within the respective networks and be budget neutral in terms of staff. In other words, enough beds must be frozen to reach the desired level of staff. They must be based on the two models as developed within the working group on "Intensification of residential care". A review of the proposals received shows that they are not budget neutral, unlike the project already approved in Flanders in the past. So, unfortunately, it has not been possible to give a positive response to the projects submitted so far, which, I believe, also explains, Mrs Fonck, the imbalances that you denounce. As part of the implementation of a more humane residential care for people in crisis, whether or not they are in forced admission status, it is envisaged that the intensification projects will be extended to the whole country. To understand the functioning of the HIC (High & Intensive Care) model and its interaction with the mobile crisis team, meetings with the Brussels sector were organised as well as a visit to HIC projects in Flanders with interested hospitals. In this context, my administration is preparing a third call for projects "Intensification of residential care" for which I have earmarked a budget of EUR 15 million. The use of this budget will take into account the fact that some regions have little or no possibility of freezing beds and will take into account the provisional results of the scientific study of projects already approved. At the adult consultation body meeting on 10 March 2022, Professor Bruffaerts presented the first results of the evaluation of Psychiatric High and Intensive Care (EPHIC) follow-up. They highlight important issues that will need to be addressed in this third call for projects. In this context, I can also inform you that the Public Health FPS is organizing a webinar "Intensification, Projects, Ideas and HIC" on May 1, 2022. We are therefore moving forward on the basis of a budget, a better developed information. I hope that I will soon be able to address this problem with the possibility of subregional and regional differentiation, which I believe is necessary at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u19	Minister, you're referring first to Justice. But I'm not talking about the law, I'm talking about health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u21	Okay, but you still have to reprosecrate it, because it's terrible. This health care is provided without the patient in the mental health care network volunteering. There are 7,000 monitoring measures per year in our country. This care therefore occupies an important place. You're talking about calls for projects, which were not budget neutral. Nevertheless, one must wonder whether it is still possible to freeze psychiatric beds. For my part, as I know a little bit about this land, I'm not sure it is. Furthermore, as you always refer to the high & intensive care in psychiatry, I recall that this practice is reserved for heavy patients. However, the observations in question here are part of another context. That is why I fear that HIC is not a response to observation situations. A particular approach is therefore needed. Of course, in a few respects, you will have to relate to justice, but above all to the different regions. So is it too much to ask – perhaps not to you, given that you are very busy, but at least to your office – to respond to the epistolic requests for meetings and the sending of projects? There wasn't one small answer. Nothing! I contacted someone again this morning to make sure. Perhaps it is too much to ask, but I hope that your office will organise a meeting with these structures that have been well organized. So it seems pretty simple to me. This will allow you to take into account the specific nature of mental health observation. I assure you that for the patient, public health and justice, and in the name of respect for caregivers, it is really fundamental, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u22	Mr President, allow me to react. Mrs Fonck, I think, but I'm not sure that, on the substance, our views are not very distant. For example, I am well aware of the fact that the requirement to reduce beds is not necessarily a condition that needs to be laid down at the present time. The approach will therefore be different with different possibilities. We are currently working on this issue. In addition, if you are echoing letters or requests that would have been sent by bodies to which I would not have responded, would you not be able to report them to me so that I can see what is not working at my level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u23	I didn't say there was a problem with you. But it may depend on what the "you" means. Minister, I have here copies of the letters sent to you. I have a copy of the concept note and project sent to you. I'm going to ask for photocopies to be sent to you this afternoon, unless you prefer me to e-mail them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u24	It would be easier to send them to me by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u25	So I'll send them to you by e-mail. In conclusion, Minister, I ask you to take the time to meet with the caregivers, to listen to them about this particular approach, but which is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Attentats set up after the terrible attacks that struck us in Brussels had made a number of recommendations. An inter-federal task force had been set up to implement the various recommendations. This included the establishment of a working group on the benefits of the victim-of-attack card, which was the result of a recommendation to have this victim-of-attack card with a number of related rights. The ASBL Life4Brussels questioned you in October 2021 – it's been a while since I filed the question – about this attack victim card for which benefits should be attributed by the SPF Santé. Proposals had indeed been made by the working group to which I have just referred, but according to the Health FPS, the work of this group has never been successful because of a "disinvestment of federated entities". The same ASBL Life4Brussels personally asked you about this four months ago. But it seems that no action has been taken. As a reminder, Minister, the only current rights are those conferred by the status of national solidarity, namely the reimbursement of health costs in connection with the attack and the free STIB, a decision taken by the Brussels-Capital Region. It therefore has nothing to do with the spirit of the map and the rights for the victims of the attack. The working group, while not successful, had nevertheless made a number of recommendations. What about it? What answers can you provide to the victims concerned and to the associations that work so hard to help and support the victims? You know as I do, victims of attacks are still experiencing extremely painful situations today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u27	Mr President, Minister, we were arrested by Life4Brussels, an association to help victims of attacks, who sent you a letter dated 7 October 2021. This letter concerns the "benefits" to be attributed by the Health FPS following the work of the 2017 inter-federal task force. This task force had been set up with the aim of implementing the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Attentats. Several meetings were organized by a working group dedicated to the benefits of the attack victim card within the task force. Proposals have been made for these benefits, but the work of this group has never been successful and is now at a standstill. The FPS indicated at the time that this failure was due to a disinvestment by the federated entities, which would not have responded to the requests of the Federal Public Service. Nearly six years after the tragic events of 22 March 2016, Life4Brussels has written to you at the request of the victims in order to determine the rights that this card gives them. The only rights that result today are those conferred on it by the national solidarity statute, namely the reimbursement of health costs in connection with the attack, as well as the free transport of STIB provided for by a decree of the Brussels-Capital Region. Life4Brussels never received a response to this letter sent on October 7, 2021. Minister, why have you still not responded to this request almost five months after it was received? Can you commit yourself to taking this matter back in hand and to reconvene, as soon as possible, the members of the working group of the inter-federal task force in order to complete the discussion and determine the "benefits" of the victim's bombing card, as your office was engaged in 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I, like my colleagues, had to intervene on this famous victim of attack card, which symbolizes the granting of national solidarity status. While more than 1300 cards have so far been distributed, victims still suffer the lack of clarity around the benefits that go hand in hand with this card such as the free transport of STIB, but not of SNCB – the condition being to be recognised as invalid at least 10% – the extreme slowness to obtain the card or renew it in case of loss, the lack of clarity and information regarding the reimbursements of health care. On the latter point, if this card offers free health care in connection with damage suffered during the attacks, the cardholder must, at each health care service, demonstrate that they are related to the attack. However, reimbursements from the Auxiliary Sickness and Disability Insurance Fund (CAAMI) are difficult, if not impossible, to monitor, which does not exclude errors and insufficient reimbursements. Furthermore, the working group of the inter-federal task force would have proposed that the map should allow victims to take advantage of certain cultural and sporting activities, with the aim of helping them rebuild, except that the working group would have been completely abandoned because of the distribution of competences between the different levels of power. On the other hand, another measure resulting from victim status, at the initiative of Brussels Airport and the police, has indeed been implemented with very beneficial effects: when a victim shows up at Brussels-National Airport, by prior appointment, a police officer or psychologist is at his disposal to accompany him to enable him to pass the check-in (traumatic episode) as quickly as possible in complete serenity. Except that this service remains unknown to most of the victims. Minister, how many times has the working group "Advantages of the Victims of Attack Card" met to date? Why were his work abandoned? How would the allocation of skills today hinder the allocation of benefits associated with this card? Does the burden of proof based on the victim, as it is designed and controlled today with regard to the reimbursement of health care, seem appropriate to you? Is the evidence easily demonstrable? How are government repayments effectively monitored? How do you intend to resolve the transparency and clarity issues associated with the health care reimbursements made by CAAMI?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u29	Mr President, the information that I am asked for obviously concerns a file that dates from before I took office. Nevertheless, my strategic cell has tried as much as possible to gather some elements of response. First of all, I answer Mr Boukili's first question, which is also a question by Mrs Fonck. I can confirm that there was no formal response to the specific letter to which you refer, Mr Boukili. Indeed, at the time of this letter, there were already contacts between the organization in question and the strategic cells of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Economy in which members of my own strategic unit occasionally participated. Surprisingly, the request to which you refer was not addressed during these contacts. Even today, the associations representing the victims are in contact with different strategic cells. In addition to the ministers mentioned above, contacts are held with the Ministers of Defence and Pensions. My strategic unit and my administrations, such as CAAMI and Medex, participate in discussions when they are concerned with the topic. To answer your second question on the merits, recommendation No. 9 of the Commission of Inquiry into the attacks states: "The Commission of Inquiry recommends that a single statute be organised and that a victim card be issued against any institution." Therefore, the victim card you refer to refers to this recommendation. This was implemented by the Act of 18 July 2017 on the creation of the status of national solidarity, the granting of a compensation pension and the reimbursement of medical care following acts of terrorism. The map you refer to exists. It appears from the letter you are talking about that Life4Brussels wanted certain advantages to be associated with this card that do not necessarily result from the parliamentary recommendation. These are other benefits than those that apply today, such as the full reimbursement of medical expenses associated with the attacks and the right to a compensation pension. According to the information available to you and me, a working group would have been set up for that purpose. An audit of the FPS Public Health indicates that my administration was not involved in this exercise. You are also referring to my firm, but my collaborators and I took office only in October 2020. I therefore have no formal information on the period prior to taking office. Neither can I see as you, or the association you contacted, that the working group did not take place or closed its work. I note, like you, that at the federal level, the status of national solidarity has been organised and the victim card has been granted. This Parliament's recommendation has therefore been implemented. On the other hand, I also note that in several cases there is an active dialogue with the associations representing the victims. Ms. Rohonyi also asked several specific questions concerning reimbursement of medical expenses. The need to demonstrate causality is a political decision taken by the then government. This is indeed a significant difference between the victims of a terrorist act and the victims of war, which leads to a certain workload. The causality is assessed by the mutual physician. The Auxiliary Sickness and Disability Insurance Fund (CAAMI) is no longer responsible for this control itself. With regard to the reimbursement of the moderator ticket, it is almost automatically and in full. In general, the situation is clear: it is only the costs not covered by the INAMI nomenclature that must be submitted to the CAAMI Health Care Committee. In this case, it is possible for the commission to cap the refund and therefore be only partial for the victim. Finally, with regard to transparency, mutualities are currently discussing with CAAMI how to organise more transparent communication with victims. Two options are under discussion. The first is that mutuality reports directly to its members on the reimbursement of sickness and disability insurance and that CAAMI also reports directly to the victims on the supplementary reimbursement. The second option is that CAAMI reports to mutuals on the supplementary reimbursement and that mutualities report on the whole to their members. I expect a decision on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, you confirm that there was no response to the October 2021 mail because you considered that the contacts were made elsewhere. I think the victims' representatives had a bad experience. A national solidarity status was granted, along with a map? That's quite correct. We must all recognize that the content is the additional rights and the "benefits" – what is an advantage when you have been the victim of an attack? –, is reduced to its simplest expression. Minister, even if it was before you, it doesn't matter: at any time, we can rest the question. You have just explained, in terms of reimbursement, the issue of causality, which leads to caps and partial repayments. Recognize as I do that there are still blurred areas at the level of causality, especially for all the repercussions on the psychic plane. You should review this case with victims' associations and mutual societies. Further efforts should be made in that regard. A small number of victims of the attacks are still in an extremely difficult situation. This must lead us to have a particular, stronger approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have been following this case of the victims of the attacks for more than two years, along with other colleagues, including Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Fonck. I am still hallucinating that a country like Belgium treats its victims in this disrespectful way, with such a lack of consideration. The answers that were given to us by the Minister of Justice, by Minister Lalieux, or others, continue to surprise me about the lack of motivation to take up this issue with arms. It's been six years! And the victims still suffer. We are being questioned all the time, because this situation is unbearable. You rightly say that you were not present when this work began and that you did not know the file. However, the association has contacted you for a few months. The least you can do would be to give him an answer without having to wait for parliamentarians to question you for things to move. She deserves respect and she deserves a clear response from the minister. What you told us here, you could have told the association, which sent you a letter months ago. There is always this lack of consideration for the victims. It is unbearable and unworthy of a country such as Belgium which claims to be democratic and supportive of its victims. In fact, that is not the case. Minister, like your colleagues in the government, your answers are insufficient and will prompt further inquiries and questions. I table a motion of recommendation here. What she asks for could quite well be accepted by the majority, namely to establish a meeting schedule for the working group dedicated to the so-called advantages of the "victim attack" card, to reach an agreement in 2022 – six years after the attacks – to fix the so-called advantages of the "victim attack" card and to respond to Life4Brussels association and keep it informed of the follow-up of the file of the "victim attack" card. I am therefore answering a motion and I hope that we can move forward on this issue and finally stop this scandalous and shameful masquerade for a country like ours!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer, although I must share the disappointment expressed by my two colleagues. You are telling us quite rightly that the artistic blur that surrounds the advantages of this map today is the result of a shared responsibility of this government and the old one. That's right. So you are trying to explain to us that, today, there are regular contacts with associations on topics when they are concerned with them, except that what you are telling us is totally in contrast to the feelings and observations made by the associations representing the victims of the attack. Moreover, it is not for nothing that a very clear request was made to you by letter from Life4Brussels, which has therefore still not received an answer, as you have just acknowledged. For the rest, you are telling us that this famous recommendation issued by the 9 Commission of Inquiry Attentats was carried out by the granting of this card. That's right. But this recommendation was very broad to leave to the government, the precedent and the current one, the task of giving it concrete rights. Now, what do we see today? Either these rights are still not effective, or they are rights that are denied by your firm even before you have the opportunity to meet with the association that requests it to explain the validity of its application and the rights related to this card, or these rights are unknown to their beneficiaries since it is only the victims who are supported and cared for by associations such as Life4Brussels who are properly informed of their rights. This poses a huge problem that has been on the finger for many months. It is the State that must provide this crucial information! This is an obligation which stems from the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry which has been mentioned. It's not up to the associations to do it. In conclusion, I would like to go back to two of the benefits that are supposed to come from this card. Firstly, free transport. As I said, there is a free STIB network, but for TEC, De Lijn or SNCB, it is necessary to be recognised as 10% invalid by the Medex. I would therefore like to have a clear commitment from you to remove this condition or, in any case, to show a certain openness of mind. I didn't hear anything about it. There is also the reimbursement component of health care. I mentioned with you the difficulty of the burden of proof, which rests on the victim, whereas the civilian victims of war do not have to prove the causal link with the event at the source of their damage, precisely because it would force them to relive their trauma infinitely. Here, too, you tell us that it is not you who have decided. Except today, Minister, you are the Minister of Health, and so you have the capacity to correct this decision that was not made by yourself, but by your predecessor. Instead, you did not answer my question about the burden of this burden of proof. Again, as with free transport, I think it would have been much more respectful of my work, but especially of the victims of attacks, to give them a signal and to make a clear commitment on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u33	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Nabil Boukili and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Whereas on 22 March 2016, 32 people were killed in the Brussels attacks and more than 300 people were injured in Brussels. Many others were deeply affected by the attacks, including first responders, family members of those killed and injured and those caught in the attacks but not physically injured; Whereas the victims and their families are still faced with inextricable situations which delay their reconstruction, that nothing has been put in place for the care of the first responders, that huge gaps persist in the provision of guarantees for the optimal protection of their right to health, their right to access to justice, their right to the truth and their right to effective and prompt compensation; - Considering that, under international instruments, victims of terrorist acts are entitled to material, social, legal and psychological assistance and that, following her visit to Belgium in 2018, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights expressed deep concern at the daily experiences of the victims of 22 March; - Whereas these findings are symptomatic of incomplete measures, and more generally of the inadequacy of the measures taken by the Government and that this delay in assisting victims leads to a phenomenon of secondary victimization, a new source of disorder and stress; - Whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends that "a victim card be issued against any institution" and that "this statute detail all that arises from such recognition with regard to the benefits granted, the recognised disability, etc. "; (p. 24, DOC 54 1752/007-4 May 2017); - Considering that the Minister has not yet replied to the letter of 7 October 2021; - Considering that we will soon commemorate the sad sixth anniversary of the attacks in Brussels; - considering the urgency and importance of the human dimension in this dossier; asks the government - to convene and then draw up a meeting schedule for the working group dedicated to the "benefits of the bomb-victim card"; - to reach an agreement in 2022, 6 years after the attacks, to fix the "benefits" of the map victims of attacks; - to respond to the Life4Brussels association and keep them informed of the follow-up of the file of the card which was the victim of the attacks." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard Mr Nabil Boukili's speech and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - whereas 32 people died in the attacks in Brussels on 22 March 2016 and more than 300 were injured. Many others were severely affected by the attacks, such as the first aid workers, the families of the deceased and injured victims, and those who were present at the sites of the attacks but were not physically injured; - whereas, to date, the victims and their families are still faced with extremely complex situations that delay their recovery, that nothing has been done for the reception of first aid workers, that there are huge gaps in ensuring the optimum protection of their right to health, their right to access to justice, their right to truth and their right to effective and rapid compensation; - considering that victims of acts of terrorism under international instruments are entitled to material, social, legal and psychological assistance and that the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, as a result of her visit to Belgium in 2018, expressed her deep concern at the daily experiences of the victims of 22 March; - whereas these findings are characteristic of the half-hearted measures and, more generally, of the inadequacy of the measures taken by the government, and that this slowness in helping the victims results in a phenomenon of secondary victimisation, which in turn is an additional source of disturbances and stress; - whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends that a victim's card be issued which can be submitted to each institution and that that status be specified in detail as to precisely what such recognition entails in respect of benefits awarded, recognised invalidity, etc. (DOC 54 1752/007, 4 May 2017, p. 13); - whereas the Minister has still not replied to the letter of 7 October 2021, - whereas we will soon commemorate the sad sixth anniversary of the attacks in Brussels; - having regard to the urgency and importance of the human aspect in this matter, asks the government - to convene the working party dealing with the benefits of the victim card and to draw up a schedule of meetings; - reach an agreement in 2022, six years after the attacks, to record the victim card's personal benefits, - reply to the letter from the association Life4Brussels and keep it informed of the further progress of the file on the victim's card.' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Gitta Vanpeborgh. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u34	Minister, on 18 February the Council of Ministers announced the appointment of members of the management committee of the FMO of the RIZIV. The FMO has been lagging behind administratively for a long time. I have questioned you about this in the past. Minister, how are the candidates selected? What is the method or procedure? How many candidates were announced and how many applied? Were any external agencies, agencies or headhunters called upon? How many candidates were arrested for a selection? What criteria were used in the selection process? What was the weighting of each of the criteria compared to the final score? How did the final selection and presentation take place? Will the outgoing members of the Management Committee receive compensation? If so, what fee? What is the total package and for what duration? From when will the management committee be able to get back to full operation? What is the situation with regard to the outstanding files and any payments in them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u35	Mrs Depoorter, the members of the FMO's management committee were nominated by the Council of Ministers on 18 February, in accordance with the regulations. On the one hand, it was a representative of an insurance institution and on the other hand it was a representative of the government. A selection procedure is not provided for. There was therefore no use of an external agency or agency, let alone a headhunter. No remuneration shall be paid to outgoing members of the Management Committee. The Management Committee has always been able to work to the full. The normal functioning of the management committee was not hindered at any time. You also asked about a state of affairs regarding the files. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that not all the application files lead to compensation. As a reminder, in accordance with the law of 31 March 2010, the Fund can only pay compensation with its own resources in the event of a medical accident without liability, when the severity has been achieved and in cases where it maintains a liability of the healthcare provider in its opinion and the severity has been achieved. In the latter case, the responsible care provider and his insurer are invited to make a claim for damages. Only if the health care provider or his insurer refuses to reimburse, will the fund take its place and reimburse it itself, but it will recover that compensation in court. As regards the operation of the task force, I can tell you that in the middle of March, almost 30% of the outstanding files had been given an opinion. Of course, the proceedings for damages will then be initiated immediately, if the case is eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u36	Minister, your answer is rather short. There are indeed two persons appointed who have the right party card; that will not have played a role in the selection. But the most important point of concern is, of course, the outstanding files. You say that in 30% of outstanding files, a third of them, an opinion has been given. We could all already learn of distressing stories of people waiting for years to deal with their files and the possible payment of compensation. Am I to understand that no one has been paid yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u37	That may distract you, but I can't formally confirm that. What I'm saying is that the claim for damages was immediately initiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u38	Has it been launched or has there been effective progress? Has the task force effectively done what the victims rightly expect, namely payout once it has been decided that the victims are entitled to compensation? That was my bill question. I shall read them to you again: 'Can the Minister give an update on the outstanding files and their possible disbursements?' I find that I have not received an answer. I will re-apply that question. Victims have been waiting for years for a verdict in their files and for compensation. You came to our committee with the announcement that you would activate a task force to deal with the problems. That was almost a year ago; the discussion dates from last summer. I can only conclude that nothing has actually happened for the victims. That is particularly negligent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u39	Minister, this question, too, concerns the Council of Ministers of 18 February 2022, where adjustments were discussed with a view to gender-neutral legislation on compensation in the cost of contraception. Those adjustments were announced earlier by the government, so I suspect that this is a policy rollout. I have the following questions, Minister. What was the exact background to the arrangement of this? What has been effectively decided and when will the decision be rolled out? Is she in today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, I wanted to go back to this decision in the Council of Ministers last February, which approved the extension of the free use of contraceptives. It is clear from this decision that a transgender man, who has changed his identity card so that it corresponds to his "real identity" but who still has the biological faculty to enable him to become pregnant, will be able to access the reimbursement scheme reserved until recently for women up to 25 years old. Discrimination has therefore just been abolished, something that can only be welcomed. Mr Minister, like my colleague, I would like to know more. Do you have the number of transgender men who have made use of this possibility of reimbursement since this amendment? Is this possibility now sufficiently known to transgender men? Has the budget for the reimbursement of contraceptives been increased accordingly to meet the new demands inherent in the inclusion of transgender men in the reimbursement I mentioned? In the positive, how much does this increase amount to? Do you think it's enough? In the near future, is an increase envisaged in order to include more people as part of this reimbursement of contraceptives, in particular by lowering the age limit to access it or by including more types of contraceptives?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u41	On 25 June 2017, a new law reforming the rules on transgenders was adopted as regards the indication of an adaptation of the registration of sex in the civil status act and its consequences. As a result, transmen can register as men, but still physically have female needs, including in terms of contraception. The Royal Decree of 16 September 2013 establishing the specific concession of contraception refers in each case to a refund for women. Thus, the sex condition is not explicitly stated, but it can be derived from this wording. There, therefore, the situation of transmen was not taken into account. Transmen who still have the female reproductive organs and thus can become pregnant are in a similar situation to those with female reproductive organs which are legally registered as women. The distinction that the Royal Decree creates in the intervention of costs cannot be justified and therefore constitutes direct discrimination. The dossier at the Council of Ministers of 18 February amended the Royal Decree of 16 September 2013 establishing a specific concession in the cost of contraception for women under 25 years of age and for women entitled to higher benefits. The word 'women' was replaced by 'right-holders'. The Council of Ministers has accepted this and decided to submit it to the King after the Council of State has given its opinion. Meanwhile, last week the change of the KB was published in the Belgian Official Journal. We do not yet have figures on the demand for intervention by transgender men. This is probably a limited number of beneficiaries. The supplementary budget is estimated at EUR 20 000. Provision is made for this amount. An additional extension, such as raising age, was analysed, but was not selected as a priority given the considerable additional cost compared to the affected groups. In fact, the current regulations already provide for additional assistance for persons receiving an increased benefit without an age limit. This is a very important step in my policy. The surgery for the next day's pill has no age limit either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u43	Minister, first of all, I wanted to stress that I fully share your goal of true gender neutrality in access to contraception. However, in order to really meet this objective, besides the decision you made to correct an oversight by the legislator in 2015, it would be necessary to raise awareness of the importance of sharing the contraceptive burden within the couple for financial reasons, but also to avoid that only one partner, as we all too often see, would have to take a hormonal pill for years or even decades. We also see today that thermal methods exist for men – I am thinking of the contraceptive ring, the heating brief – but we see that there is a lack of scientific literature to prove their effectiveness and, also, their reversible character to induce more men to resort to it by reassuring them, explaining to them that it is absolutely safe for them. I therefore believe that this path of male contraception is not sufficiently invested when it would enable us to meet our objectives in terms of access to contraception. As far as raising the age for female contraception is concerned, I must admit that I am extremely disappointed. You're actually telling us that it would cost too much, the budget that it would cost. However, I should like to point out that unwanted pregnancies also have a cost that must be avoided as much as possible. Thank you. The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u44	The four attached questions on the closure of maternity hospitals, No 55025525C of Mr Hervé Rigot, No 55025670C of Mrs Sofie Merckx, No 55027036C of Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and No 55027189C of Mrs Catherine Fonck are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u45	Dear colleague, the French Presidency of the European Union had prepared a proposal for a declaration which should have been approved at the EPSCO informal ministerial meeting in Grenoble on 10 February. Although there was a very positive debate on the French proposal to launch a European Health Union and a European public health pillar, this declaration was not finally approved. After all, it is rare to have formal texts or even to consult informally at an EPSCO informal ministerial meeting. Several ministers had seen the declaration very late and had therefore not been able to secure the support of their entire government. I am being asked if a roadmap will be drawn up in this regard. Indeed, that is the intention of the French Presidency. But we have not yet received a proposal. Do some topics appear to be more consensual than others? In general, it is easier to find a consensus to cooperate on topics in the field of health safety than on the prevention of non-communicable diseases or on health systems. However, there was a lot of ambition in Grenoble. This is not a black and white story and more discussions will be needed in order to reach consensus. Do we want to contribute? Yes, it is. We look forward to more clarification by the French Presidency on this ambition, so that we can position ourselves. We are convinced that a Europe of public health or a European pillar of public health would be very useful, but this should focus on areas where collaboration at EU level has a clear added value.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u46	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, even if I find it difficult to understand whether things are folded or not, whether this debate is closed or not. You say that the declaration has not been approved, but at the same time you expect clarification from the French Presidency, which is therefore at the initiative of this declaration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u47	I even personally told my French colleague that this was a subject of great interest to me and that I encouraged him to continue this debate. Perhaps this is a debate that should be held during the presidencies that follow, and perhaps also during the Belgian Presidency in 2024. It is therefore not closed at all as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u48	All right, I thank you for that because this Europe of health would already give a new meaning to the European project, a new breath. It's common sense too. This would allow the European Union to coordinate itself, to pool our knowledge, the state of our research, and of course, to serve the patient. Where I am less than you, it is when you say that it is easier to agree on issues of health safety than prevention. However, the challenges are the same across Europe: cancers, rare diseases, obesity or the ageing of the population, the increasing insecurity caused by the explosion of energy prices, the risks of future zoonoses - this is more about health security. All EU countries face these challenges, which therefore demonstrates that this Health Union needs to address these prevention issues. For the rest, I hear your willingness to continue working in this direction. I can only encourage you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Sneppe's 55025592C was postponed at her request. Debates of the European Parliament 585025610C by Mrs Bury, of whom I am without news, becomes without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u50	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u51	Mrs Depoorter, the term'staff' should be understood in the broad sense of the term, namely all caregivers working in a particular care establishment, regardless of their employment status, i.e. whether they are employed, self-employed or civil servant. The free choice of professional by the patient, as provided for in Article 6 of the Act, shall apply to any type of healthcare professional, as defined in Articles 2 and 3 of the Act in question. The patient freely chooses the professional and can always contact another professional. Article 2 of the law on the rights of the patient defines the scope of the law and specifically provides that the term 'professional' must be understood, namely the practitioner referred to in Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health professions and the professional of a nonconventional practice provided for in the Law of 29 April 1999 on nonconventional practices in medicine, medicine, preparation, etc. In addition, Article 3 (1) of the Law on the Rights of the Patient specifies that the law applies to contractual and non-contractual, private and public legal relationships in the field of health care and legal relations established when healthcare is provided by a professional to a patient. What the explanatory statement is intended to clarify is that, in some cases, the freedom of choice may be limited by law or by circumstances inherent in the organisation of health care, regardless of the context, whether in an outpatient or in a care facility, that organisation takes place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u52	Minister, the important question was whether the principle of equality was not violated. I shall be brief, but to hear your answer seems to me that there is no problem in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u53	Minister, you are still going to the dentist too irregularly, and so are minors. Even though earlier efforts have been made to remove the financial thresholds and most preventive oral care for children is fully reimbursed, there are still too few children going to the dentist. I have heard from some local authorities that they would like to contribute by enabling a screening of the mouth of minors, for example in the Houses of the Child. It now appears that, when working outside the walls of a regular dental cabinet, for example for a oral examination, there is no dental nomenclature that can be attested, and that is a problem. Is it true that no dental nomenclature can be used outside the walls of a dentist's office? Are there possible exceptions, and if so which ones? Is it useful to make certain preventive nomenclature, such as oral examination, accessible for use outside a dentist's office? Could you explain your plans on this matter? What conditions must be met? Do you think that even dental hygienists, for whom there is an important task, should have access to nomenclature in case of care outside the walls of a cabinet? If so, what conditions are attached to it? What are your plans on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u54	Since the sixth state reform, collective prevention for the awareness of oral care has been the responsibility of the communities. For example, awareness campaigns on children's oral health, such as smilen.be and Sourir pour Tous, are the responsibility of the communities; they were previously funded by RIZIV. All benefits in kind referred to in Article 5 of the Nomenclature shall be carried out in accordance with the criteria set out in Articles 14, 17 and 19 of the Law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in health care. But other regulations, such as those on waste management or radiation protection, must also be taken into account. A dental procedure carried out by a dental surgeon must therefore take place under certain conditions, taking into account different regulations. However, it is not excluded that some operations are carried out outside a fixed dental practice, provided that the different legal requirements are met. The nomenclature expressly provides for a consultation of a dental doctor requested by a doctor at a sick home. The National Agreement on Dentalists - Hospital funds 2022-2023 provides for the abolition of the condition of the treating physician's request to facilitate dental access at home. The agreement also provides for the identification of the benefits in kind provided for in Article 5 which are carried out outside a fixed practice by means of a pseudo code with the aim of quantifying, evaluating and, if necessary, taking steps to regulate practice in the future. As regards your third question, the Royal Decree of 28 March 2018 on the profession of the dental hygienist provides that dental hygienists may independently carry out preventive actions. It is not intended to limit the dental hygiene practitioner to dental practice, but to improve oral prevention in hospitals, residential care centres, rest and nursing homes, facilities for people with disabilities and mental health care facilities. The National Committee on Dentalists - Hospital funds is currently working on the delegation of acts already included in the dental nomenclature to dental hygienists. The national committee will then examine how dental hygienists can be better integrated into medical care insurance by developing a pseudonumeral nomenclature, which will allow for a complete overview of the activity of dental hygienists for acts for which there is currently no nomenclature code.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u55	Minister, I myself am always confused by the fact that there is a piece of prevention in the mouth care sector that has a federal nomenclature attached to it. I know the unfortunate consequences of the sixth state reform. The whole package had been better transferred to the Communities, but at the moment the nomenclature is still being federally regulated. I hear pseudocodes have been created to evaluate and follow practices outside dental practice. I urge you to look closely at this and to encourage and promote it as much as possible. We also need to draw conclusions quickly, because we need to honour all the efforts made by the local authorities with compensation. I also asked in what sense dental hygienists could be recruited. Your Flemish colleague is waiting for a consultation with you on the definition of preventive care and actions of dental hygienists under federal jurisdiction. They, too, are waiting for clarity and proper distribution of the tasks, and therefore the appropriate financial resources must be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Caluwé's 55025645C was postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u57	Minister, toxicologists at Ghent University have developed a test to determine whether or not a person has drunk alcohol during a period of one month. The research on phosphatidylethanol, a substance that remains in the body, carried out in the wake of the Tournée Minerale campaign, appears to be a significant step forward in the research on alcohol consumption. The test may be important for the follow-up of a driving ban for alcohol offences, as well as for the treatment of addiction and follow-up after rehab, which may prevent recurrence. Mr Minister, are there any plans for reimbursement of the test? Are there any plans to use this test to guide patients with an alcohol problem or addiction? Have any steps been taken in this respect, or have consultations already taken place?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u58	Mrs Depoorter, the RIZIV has so far received no request for reimbursement for that test. Applications for reimbursement may be submitted through the in vitro diagnostic procedure, after which the application will initially be dealt with by the Technical and Medical Council. This will include the clinical utility, the validated clinical practice directive on its use, reliability, cost-efficiency and budgetary impact. The cost of benefits in kind required by employers, private institutions or public authorities may not be covered by compulsory medical care insurance. In the context of the interfederal strategy on harmful alcohol consumption, I propose a first proposal to the IMC Drugs in the next week. In doing so, we ask the ministers concerned to adopt the problem definition, the vision, the values and the standards, as well as the general and specific objectives and methodology. Therefore, I cannot give a concrete opinion on possible actions now, certainly not on actions relating to the implementation of tests in the judicial sphere, such as alcohol tests in the context of a recovery investigation in which the driving licence has been withdrawn. There are, in my view, pros and contras working on such tests for the therapeutic relationship. I leave it to the expertise of therapists to make the correct assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u59	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have not yet submitted the proposal to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. You say you'll discuss it with the therapists. It is already good that it will be discussed. I understand that it is not possible to impose obligations or measures on employers; that was not the question either. With regard to public authorities, it could still be said, especially in the margin of justice or in the police regions, that the test must be paid in full. As a care provider, it seems to me to be a very useful means of checking whether someone who has been or has been in treatment has actually used alcohol, which is also affordable. Many patients who end up in addiction care have payment difficulties. So we cannot simply impose an additional financial burden on them. Measuring is knowing. I have quite a lot of experience in addiction care. Saying is something quite different than working with real measurement values. Being able to guide patients on the basis of correct data is certainly important. I would therefore like to make a warm appeal to consider the proposal and consider it with the therapists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u60	It is a rather long question, so I refer to the version submitted. In the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 8 February, you indicated that you are working on carrying out an administrative relief for nurses within the first-line assistance. In most cases, home nurses are involved. Article 8 of the Nomenclature lists all requirements to be met by a nursing dossier. This includes the registration of pseudocodes in the context of the care of a palliative patient, the mention of the outcome of a coordination meeting. This ignores the fact that the palliative patient does not use a multidisciplinary team. In addition, the DGEC's requirements are particularly high in terms of e.g. the observations and evaluations of the concerns of nurses in the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u61	Mrs Depoorter, first of all I have to say that the concepts of patient records and nursing records are mixed up, although they are actually two different things. Article 33 of the Quality Act determines what should be in a patient file. The right to a patient file is based on Article 9 of the Law of 22 August 2002 on the rights of the patient. A nursing file, on the other hand, is defined in Article 8 (4) (2) of the Nomenclature. Both the patient file and the nursing file are more than an administrative obligation. They're both very important for the follow-up of patients. In accordance with Article 139 (4) of the legislation of 14 July 1994, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV shall be responsible for verifying the benefits charged. Where a health care provider does not respect a provision in the nomenclature, the health insurance shall lead to damage and the social inspector of that department shall have the power to determine the infringement. Article 142 (1) (2) of the same law provides for the measures which may be imposed for such infringement. The leading official or administrative courts may impose the reimbursement of the value of benefits in kind unduly charged and/or an administrative fine of 5% to 150 % of the value of the refund. In addition, Article 157 of that law provides for the possibility of imposing part of the administrative fine with delay for a maximum period of three years. The legislator therefore provides a sufficiently wide margin. Both the managing official and the administrative courts themselves assess, in all independence, what measures are appropriate for the infringement found by the social inspector of the service. It is not within my competence to judge the proportionality of these measures. Secondly, following the answer to the previous question, it is unclear how the keeping of a nursing file in itself can be regarded as an administrative nuisance. Thirdly, the nomenclature sets out in detail what a nursing file should mean, just because it should serve as an instrument of care. When the requirements of the nomenclature are respected and the health care provider keeps an accurate record of his care, he automatically has a useful tool to monitor the quality and continuity of care. This is, of course, only the case when the nursing file is correctly and truthfully completed. Finally, the partial entry into force of the Quality Act has no impact on the determination of the nomenclature. In accordance with Article 35 (1) the King shall establish the nomenclature. It is also a matter of public order. In that context, your question about remuneration conditions and such should be assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u62	Minister, you explain it all quite technically or theoretically, but in practice there appear to be problems. The discussions between the home nurses and the leading official appear to be mainly at the expense of the patient. The nursing file, which you claim to be a useful tool for the continuity of care, does not appear to be optimally completed, and sanctions are not always imposed. Indeed, there are organisations that do advocate reading the eID but do not have the nursing file in order and are not sanctioned for it. Other smaller organisations will then work with that nursing file and indicate that reading the eID will cause nuisance. We have heard again this morning, particularly in the hospital context, that we are short of nurses. We don't have enough hands on the bed. It is up to you as Minister of Health to strive to ensure that performance can be carried out and reimbursed in a simple and effectively verifiable manner, and that a home nurse does not risk being exposed to arbitrariness, which should result in some of the benefits being paid back. On the other hand, pseudo-codes and fraud must not be tolerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u63	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u64	All MUG teams of all hospitals in the Brussels-Capital Region - the teams to which you refer - should guarantee bilingualism. They are all subject to the application of the Royal Decree of 18 July 1996 concerning the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters. Public hospitals are fully covered. The private and university hospitals are only covered by the Royal Decree of 18 July 1996 when, first, they carry out a public service mission beyond the limits of the private enterprise and, second, they have entrusted the law or public authorities to them in the interest of the general good. This is the case when organising the emergency service or a MUG recognised by the competent administration. The language role of the staff is of minor importance. Bilingualism must be guaranteed. It is indeed important that people with an acute health problem for which the MUG has to go should be approached in their own language. Given the number of complaints, perhaps they do not give a complete picture, as you yourself said, we cannot conclude that this is a general problem. You refer to the Vlaams Meldpunt Language Complaints and the Taalwetwijzer, but I should also like to draw your attention to the powers of the Standing Commission on Linguistic Monitoring, which is responsible for general monitoring of the application or control. The Standing Committee on Linguistic Control is within the competence of the Home Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u65	So, Minister, it seems that I have to ask Minister Verlinden my question again. My question was to start a campaign. You say that the figures may not provide a complete picture, indeed, they do. People don't even know where to file a complaint, and they often don't because there's some sort of hierarchy. It is not easy to file a complaint against someone who has taken care of you, or who still has to take care of you. Measuring is knowing, but there is now no clear picture of Dutch ignorance. If there are problems with an almost deadly outcome, it is read in the press. But in the case of serious injuries, due to a lack of language skills or too long a duration when the MUG has to come, we often do not get to know it. However, we should really know about such matters. So my question was: why not start a campaign, starting in the few doctor-cabinettes in the Flemish Rand and in Brussels? For example, people are reminded that they can report any problems. But I just didn't get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u66	Mrs Merckx asks her question No. 55025677C. She couldn't be here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u67	Mr President, Minister, my colleagues and I have tabled a motion for a resolution on the treatment of rare diseases and orphan medicinal products with the aim of addressing the WAIT indicator, which still indicates that our country is lagging behind in terms of innovative therapies in the European peloton. Of the rare disease programmes, in which the FAGG plays an important role, being the compassionate use and medical need programs, there are about a hundred. A small sixty would be walking around rare diseases today. We believe that an evaluation of this is necessary and we wonder whether you have carried it out. Can you indicate the ratio of the medicines included in the rare diseases programmes that were subsequently approved for reimbursement? Were they made available on the market in our country? If there was no refund, we would have liked to hear the following from you. How many patients could be guaranteed to continue taking the started medication free of charge? How does the effectiveness or efficiency of such programmes evaluate? In what capacity have the programmes effectively meant health benefits for the patients concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, in reply to the first question, I can tell you that since 2014 43 programmes have been set up with an orphan indication. Of the 43 applications, 35 were the subject of an application to the Commission for reimbursement of medicines. Eight did not submit a request for reimbursement to the Commission. Of the 35 applications referred to above, 23 received a fee, one of which has in the meantime requested and obtained the deletion of its refund and the cessation of marketing, following a request from the EEA. Eight of those 35 applications are still in the CTG procedure. Three applications received a negative decision. A file was withdrawn by the company before a decision could be made. Of these eight for which no request for reimbursement was submitted to the CTG, two are not commercialised in Belgium, five have not obtained registration of the indication for medical need or compassionate use, one has been commercialised and has been given the indication but has never applied for reimbursement. That is the answer to your question about the proportion of the files requested that have given rise to reimbursement. You will then ask to what extent, if there was no refund, patients participating in the programme could obtain the medicines free of charge. I do not consider in my reply eight cases which are currently the subject of a CTG procedure. Of the twelve programmes for which no refund is in force, with three negative decisions, a file withdrawn by the firm and eight for which no CTG file was submitted, there are still more programmes. These medicines are therefore still accessible to patients through these programmes. Five of those twelve programmes for which no reimbursement is in force have been closed. Of those five, three relate to medicines that are not yet on the market. For these three programmes, the sponsor, the firm, must continue to give free access to the patients already included and that the medicinal product is placed on the market. Of the other two programmes of these five, we have no details on the follow-up of the patients after the programme. You asked how we evaluate the effectiveness of this story. Each programme shall be evaluated on the benefit-risk ratio, unrequited medical needs and ethical admissibility. If these three points are found to be positive, the programme shall be approved. During the scheduled re-evaluation of the programme, the safety of the patients will be assessed and there will be an unrequited medical need in the indication of the programme. Since 2014, 43 programmes have been set up with an orphan indication. Since 2016, epidemiological data have been used to estimate the number of patients that would be included in these programmes each year. This is cumulatively about 1,113 patients. You ask if there has been a health benefit for the patients involved. Each programme is of course set up for a group of patients for which the benefit-risk ratio is assessed positively. It is the patient's physician who checks individually whether that relationship is positive for his patient. I don't have that information. In general, participation in the programme gives patients access to the medicinal product before it is actually available on the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u69	Mr Minister, out of the 43 programmes that were launched, approximately 60%, which are 23 programmes, was repaid. What is very unfortunate is that it takes 538 days for the patient to be able to use that therapy. Most orphan diseases are detected between 1 and 5 years old. It is essential that one can quickly start a therapy. If one sees that these 23 molecules only reach the patients after 538 days, one can say that the balance is negative, because one could have helped more children faster. A review of the approach to orphan medicinal products and orphan diseases is therefore genuinely necessary. We see progress being made. It's just happening way too slow in our country. That is why I call for our motion for a resolution to be reconsidered. I have also read your opinion on which we will be discussing later, because it is essential for our patients and patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u70	Minister, as Minister of Health, you are of course a member of the IMC Drugs, as you have just mentioned. I was therefore surprised that your partymate made a very clear plea for the legalization of hard drugs. According to your colleague from the Front Group, the government should even offer cocaine. In the interview from which I get the information, Professor Decorte also participated, who already made an argument to decriminalize the drug chain. During the same period an IMC took place where it was decided not to decide. The question was asked whether steps would be taken to legalise drugs. Since there was no consensus within the IMC, it was decided not to decide. However, in Brussels, we are going to set up use and spraying areas, which actually means facilitating drug use and not complying with the 1921 law. Following both news reports, there was a survey at the Pharmacy Forum. I suspect they are the ones who, in your colleague's view, should be supplying the drugs. The result was that 83% was against the legalisation of drugs, 10% was for the legalisation of marijuana and only 7% would want to legalize and distribute cocaine. So if you want to carry out your colleague's plans, you have a problem. What interest do you attach to the argument of the Antwerp ships? Is her position accepted as a party position and is it your position? Is this position or the party position also supported by the federal coalition parties? What importance do you attach to Professor Decorte's appeal? Are you going with this? Can you explain more about the decisions of the IMC not to decide? Will there be no amendment at all to the 1921 law on federal drug policy? What is your response to the Pharmacy Forum's poll? To what extent do you think it would be possible for healthcare providers to support a legalization of cocaine and to see cocaine distributed? Will you listen to their voices when you decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u71	Mrs Depoorter, you will be aware that I am absolutely in favour of evidence-based policies and, above all, of evidence-based drug policies, since there is a lot of discussion on this issue which is ideological in nature. There is a great deal of social sensitivity and the theories are not always substantiated or are not always feasible in reality. Evidence-based policy presupposes that we depart from clear definitions and terms and that we avoid confusion. Let me be clear: the use of drugs is primarily a health issue for me. Drugs are unhealthy and risky for health. However, people who use drugs should be able to receive care. They must not therefore be stigmatized or discriminated against, and as a result they do not receive the necessary care. We must invest much more heavily than today in prevention, in all forms and for all target groups. In addition, we must also invest in harm reduction and in the treatment of persons with problematic drug use. With regard to the most efficient legal approach to drug use in order to limit its damage, you will agree with me that we do not have any real clear conclusions today, scientifically speaking. The possible legal techniques are many, such as legalization of certain drugs or all drugs, whether or not they are offered and/or produced by the government of one or other drug, but also models such as trial care or initiatives at the level of the drug treatment room to which you referred. That is something that has existed in our country for many years. For the time being, I would like to conclude from this that we do not yet have a silver bullet to limit drug-related harm, nor legally - you referred to the legalisation of hard drugs, nor to health. In any case, it seems to me that a combination of measures is and will remain essential. I do not wish to prolong the debate. We need a global discussion, based on clear evidence. What Mrs Beels said or what other people said to whom you referred, I want to keep looking in that light. It is true that, on behalf of all the relevant ministers at federal level and at state level, the General Cell Drugs Policy is currently discussing possible changes to the 1921 Drugs Act. It was agreed that the General Cell Drugs Policy will present its results to ministers in June 2022. I therefore await these proposals, to look at them together with my colleagues and to take decisions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u72	Minister, it was a very interesting answer. It will certainly be a matter of discussion at your party office. I would really like to encourage Mrs Beels to take the scientific evidence into account. I can also recommend a book to her. She has read the Netherlands Narcostat. However, I can also recommend the book Memoires of an addicted brain, by American scientist Marc Lewis. It's very interesting to read what that substance does in the brain and how it effectively determines neurotransmission. We fully agree that we must follow science and that we must have a combination of measures. We must do both prevention and harm reduction as well as help the patient. However, Minister, you have a real problem. You say that the Inter-Ministerial Conference will look at how to tackle the problem and that you will discuss it, but in Brussels you will have the injection area on your feet. In Brussels, drug use is facilitated. The ships of your Front Group are actually going to ban the use of cocaine. I've been able to read this in different media. So you have a lot of work ahead of you. I invite you to work on it, because the corona crisis didn't do the drugs well. Our patients and their families are holding hands in their hair. They need help, not encouragement to continue using.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u73	Mr. President, Minister, Arnold-Chiari syndrome is a rare disease. I'm not going to explain the whole disease, because everyone can find out easily. I am going to stick to the very concrete questions that I absolutely have to ask and for which I hope to obtain such concrete answers. In Belgium, the surgical technique for treating Arnold-Chiari malformation is laminectomy and craniectomy. Conversely, a neurosurgical team in Spain has been offering the terminal filum section for about ten years. I am speaking today because I have been asked by the parents of a teenage girl who has since been able to benefit from the intervention in Spain, but who cannot receive any reimbursement in Belgium. Parents have therefore set up an association to try to raise funds for the intervention and associated costs, which represent significant amounts. The parents were not able to obtain the intervention and reimbursement agreement of INAMI either under Article 20 of the European Regulation 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems and translated into Belgian law in Article 136(1) of the coordinated law of 14 July 1994, or under Article 25 of the coordinated law of 14 July 1994 on the Special Solidarity Fund for health benefits provided abroad. The same situation has already arisen for another child – Lilou – and has been the subject of disputes with INAMI before the courts, with several judgments, including a recent judgment at the Liège Labour Court on 9 March 2021. In the light of the various judgments, including that of the Cour d'Appel du Travail in Liège which validated the fact that the section intervention of the terminal filum could be reasonably attempted in this type of indication, scientific data, the importance of trying everything to stop the development of this very heavy pathology, the importance of considering alternative treatment – such as that performed in Spain – to more risky surgeries as performed in Belgium, and the situation experienced by these patients and their families, is it not appropriate to take into account this therapeutic alternative of the section of the terminal filum and therefore to provide for a financial intervention via the Special Solidarity Fund, for example? That is the essence of my question, which I wish to update because I have been submitting it for a long time. Know that since then, the girl has been operated on, that she is evolving in a positive way. But my questions about the recent court decisions and therefore the adaptation of the attitude of INAMI remain full and complete
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u74	Mr President, Minister, I will not go back to this congenital malformation of the cerebellum, which can cause multiple disabling symptoms. This disease is often accompanied by another rare disease called syringomyelia, which can also lead to many equally disabling symptoms. As my colleague has just said, the only known treatment is surgery. Minister, few statistics and information seem to exist on these relatively unknown diseases. That is why I would like to ask you the following three questions: - Do you have figures on the number of Belgian patients with this malformation? - Are there any research or clinical studies to try to develop specific treatments for this disease or, in any case, for its symptoms? - What financial support can patients with this condition use?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u75	Mr President, I shall first answer Mrs Fonck's question. The section of the terminal filum exists in Belgium. This intervention is reimbursed in the nomenclature but for other indications which are well recognised. Except for the publications of Professor Royo in Spain and his team of surgeons exclusively trained by him, the scientific authorities agree that there is no scientific evidence for this surgical technique in the treatment of Chiari's malformation. Belgian neurosurgeons who are experts in this pathology agree with this position. This view was confirmed in several interviews with INAMI. It is true that two recent judgments have been unfavourable to INAMI. As regards a private clinic and an intervention not recognised by the Catalan compulsory insurance, INAMI intervened, as required by the regulation, at the Belgian intervention rate. The child's parents appealed because they considered the amount insufficient. They were dismissed by the court. Since the scientific value and effectiveness of the terminal filum section in Arnold-Chiari's syndrome are not recognised or motivated by the medical authorities, which is a primary legal requirement in order to be eligible for assistance from the Special Solidarity Fund, the Fund cannot intervene in this case. Regarding Ms Zanchetta's questions, the Central Register of Rare Diseases does not yet contain the total number of patients in Belgium. We cannot give an estimate for Belgium because the overall prevalence is unknown. As far as research is concerned, research into this pathology appears to be poorly developed. There is only one clinical study in Belgium conducted in Leuven and there are 23 in total. As you described in your question, the treatment is essentially surgical. As regards the financial assistance which the patient may use in the event of surgery for Arnold-Chiari syndrome, different benefits can be found in the nomenclature according to the technique chosen by the surgeons: - Surgical services (Article 14, (k) of the nomenclature): codes 281713/281274, laminectomy without opening of the dura mother (N 250): EUR 267,49; codes 281735/281746, laminectomy with arthrodesis (N 500): EUR 534,98; - Special medical technical services (Article 14, b) of the nomenclature): codes 232573/232584, surgical treatment by simple linear craniectomy (K 180): EUR 345.31. In any case, the patient is obviously entitled to a refund as part of the anesthesia surrounding the operation. In addition, more general interventions also apply to these patients, as well as to other insured patients who need a lot of care: reimbursement for consultations and examinations carried out as part of the diagnosis and follow-up of this disease, the safety net in case of high medical costs such as the maximum amount to be charged. As part of our health and disability insurance, some patients can also obtain the status of chronically ill persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u76	Minister, I take note of your answer and your argument. You say it's refunded in Belgium but it's refunded for other indications. However, it was in the context of this treatment of Arnold-Chiari's malformation that I intervened. You argue that there is no scientific evidence, in any case in relation to what is retained here in Belgium. Recognize, however, that in relation to the judgments handed down by the Liège Labour Court, there is a validation that intervention could be reasonably attempted in this type of indication. As you have also pointed out, it cannot be said that there is a great deal of literature on this rare syndrome and that this is equivocal. In this case, I think a discussion is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u77	Minister, thank you for your response, particularly the financial assistance component. I have no further comments at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u78	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Rohonyi's 55025807C and 55025810C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u79	Mr President, Minister, digital applications can no longer be ignored in the medical world. Healthcare providers are connected via digital communication. A lot of equipment runs on computer-controlled technology. This means that cybersecurity is becoming increasingly important, even within hospitals. In addition, sensitive patient data should not be disseminated. During the corona crisis, the importance of IT in the medical world has become even clearer. Think of telemedicine and all the new developments it has brought with it. During the covid crisis, security experts offered their services to strengthen hospitals in the field of cybersecurity, which was also supported by the CCB. In 2020, CCB indicated that hospitals should better arm themselves against ransomware, as several attacks on hospitals had taken place abroad. In the Netherlands, Minister Kaag recently indicated that hospitals could be a potential target of cyber attacks by Russia since the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Has a risk analysis been carried out in relation to cyberattacks at hospitals? What's the outcome? What additional precautions have been taken since the war in Ukraine? Are there any indications that there have been cyber attacks or attempts at hospitals in our country by Russia? If so, can you explain this? Which improvement projects have been launched since the support of external experts in the covid crisis? Can you tell me how many cyber attacks on hospitals have occurred in recent years? Do hospitals practice on potential cyberattacks on a regular basis? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u80	Mrs Gijbels, you asked me if there was any risk analysis. In 2018, the preparation of the NIS regulation carried out a survey at a number of hospitals about their vulnerability to cyber incidents. At that time, no vulnerabilities were identified other than in institutions and companies from other sectors. I'm not saying that to minimize the concern, but that was the diagnosis at the time. At the same time, the Hospital Information Safety Working Group, led by the eHealth Platform, has established a set of minimum standards for information security. In order to assist hospitals in meeting these standards, the Working Group has also issued implementing guidelines for this. Those standards and guidelines are based on well-known and widespread international standards. These are ISO 27001 and 27002 standards. At the eHealth platform, we have no evidence that there would have been cyber attacks on hospitals from Russia. As regards the improvement projects, at the start of the covid crisis, the eHealth Platform's security service and the CCB started working together to help hospitals secure their systems. For example, they receive support from the CCB through early threat notifications and help the eHealth platform's security service to disseminate information about and register hospitals on these services. In addition, the organisation wehelpourhospitals.be is also supported. Following reports of an attack on a medical lab at the end of 2020 and the attacks on two hospitals at the beginning of 2021, further cooperation has been developed to provide information on these attacks, if available, to other hospitals. In addition, hospitals are helped by providing equipment that can help safety consultants to carry out their mission more efficiently in hospitals. As part of the budget financial resources, a cybersecurity domain has been defined, money has been reserved through the Belgian Restart Plan - 20 million euros in 2022 - and there is already an opinion from the Federal Hospital Services Board on projects that represent real improvements for the prevention of attacks and for the preparation of attacks. You ask about the number of attacks, but giving a number of cyber attacks is difficult, because they are largely addressed by the security systems or because they occur unnoticed and therefore are not reported. The eHealth platform received reports for the following incidents, which were noted by their impact. In 2019, the eHealth platform was informed about a cyber incident. In 2021, the eHealth platform was informed of 4 incidents. No reports of incidents in hospitals in 2022 have been reported. At the request of the RIZIV, a number of hospitals are involved in a programme, in which the external infrastructure of the hospital is checked for vulnerabilities. This will identify the extent to which a hospital can become the victim of a cyberattack and solve problems at an early stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You say that this is important, but I cannot get rid of the impression that little is being done. A real risk analysis has not happened, although I think this is really necessary. You say that minimum standards are set, but we do not know whether they have been achieved or by which hospitals. I think this should be followed up more closely. I believe that there must be means to this end. Hospitals themselves indicate that the eHealth platform and the digital files cost a lot of money. Cyber security is of course also very important. I think they should be supported financially. After all, we all know that hospital funding is already very fragile. You say that the cyber attacks are often not noticed, which makes it difficult to give figures. I wonder if we should not be more attentive. I think we should better record the attacks stopped by the hospital software. In a number of hospitals a project is now being rolled out by RIZIV, I understand, but I think we need to do more there and to involve more hospitals or even all hospitals. That way we can get a good picture of it and keep it. After all, we must not forget that we are dealing with very sensitive data. We do not want them to fall into the wrong hands and equipment to fail at an undesirable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u82	We have no news from Mrs. Jadin. Her question goes without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u83	Minister, I am aware that the subject of my question concerns a shared competence of yourself, Minister Clarinval and Minister Dermagne. That's why I'm asking them questions. According to an article in Knack, a large-scale European study concludes that farmers are not adequately protected from the harmful effects of pesticides. Both the exposure risk and the health effects of pesticides are underestimated. Toxicology and epidemiological research increasingly shows that pesticides are harmful to health. There also seems to be some suspension of protective clothing. If farmers wear the clothing in the summer according to the instructions, they would become much too hot, to which other risks are attached. How do you respond to these tests? France and Italy recognise the direct link between excessive and professional use of pesticides and Parkinson's disease. I realise that this aspect does not fall within your competence, but have you taken steps together with Minister Dermagne to recognise the causal link in our country as well? Do you think that there are sufficient studies available on the health effects on Belgian farmers using pesticides? Mieke Sevenans, prevention consultant at Prevent Agri, founded by the Boerenbond, states in the article that there is a lack of personal protective equipment. What public authorities are investigating this? How's the partnership with Minister Clarinval? What measures are still in the pipeline? What is your view on recognition as an occupational disease? What can you do to raise farmers' awareness of the health risks of pesticides?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u84	Mrs Creemers, it makes sense for you to ask for my response to the relevant investigation. In my policy, I focus on both the risk of exposure and the health effects of pesticides. The toxicological and epidemiological studies show that there could be a possible link between agricultural activities, on the one hand, and long-term effects of pesticides, on the other hand, but a clear causal link has not been established. Not proven means that further research is needed in order to clarify the situation. The Federal Reduction Plan for Plant Protection Products examines the long-term effects on farmers based on the most relevant scientific literature. Your second question was whether studies are already available on the health effects of pesticides and which public authorities may be involved. The Federal Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, as well as regional authorities and academics are involved. The Federal Reduction Plan for Plant Protection Products examines the long-term effects on farmers based on the most relevant scientific literature. Regional initiatives were also launched, such as a pilot project for the link between bladder cancer and pesticide exposure in Flanders. Moreover, this has not shown a causal link. There are also several Walloon projects, such as ELENSA, EXPOPESTS and PROPULPPP. The focus in Flanders is rather on biomonitoring, e.g. exposure to pesticides in target groups, not particularly among farmers. Further consideration of a relationship between specific exposure in farmers and adopters and possible long-term effects remains necessary. The federal NAPAN, our national action plan, is, in my view, the best forum for coordinating this research between the different regions. You are asking for my cooperation with my colleague Clarinval. I am, of course, working with the Minister for Agriculture, who is responsible for plant protection products. We are actively involved in the federal reduction plan for plant protection products; the 2023-2027 programme is currently for public consultation. You can find it on phytoweb.be through the search terms reduction plan, national action plan, public research and NAPAN 2023-2027. You asked a question about the recognition of Parkinson's disease as an occupational disease for farmers. I must repeat how occupational diseases are recognised. There are two systems of worker recognition. Firstly, there is the occupational disease list, which contains the diseases and risks recognised by Fedris. Secondly, there is the open system by which occupational diseases which are not included in the list can also be recognised if it can be proved that the direct and determining cause of the disease is linked to the occupation. It should be noted that the social security scheme for self-employed persons does not cover them against the risk of occupational disease. The systems I just mentioned apply to employees. The issue of inclusion as an occupational disease of Parkinson's disease caused by pesticides was already addressed in the Fedris authorities in 2013. The medical committee of chemical and toxic agents has carried out a wide study of scientific literature. The report was then presented to the Scientific Council. The Committee and the Scientific Council found that the epidemiological and experimental studies suggested the hypothesis of an association between pesticide exposure and Parkinson's syndrome and even Parkinson's disease, but that those studies could not demonstrate a causal link between occupational exposure to pesticides and Parkinson's syndrome or Parkinson's disease. For this reason, they are not recognised as occupational diseases. We discussed occupational diseases in committee earlier. The concept of occupational diseases is fairly strict in a certain way, as causality must be demonstrated in order to be included in the list. I think it is very important to retain that obligation. That explains the negative answer to your question. You ask me if I will consult the various scientific data available to identify the other diseases that farmers are threatened with by pesticides. Well, that is part of the federal reduction plan for plant protection products, for which, among other things, Minister Dermagne is also competent. I refer again to the website. You asked a question about raising awareness. Yeah, awareness-raising is important. Any person employed in the agricultural or marketing sectors of plant protection products is obliged to follow a training path for the safe and sustainable use of such products, i.e. to obtain a phyto-licensing. The training shall address the correct use and maintenance of materials for applications, personal protective equipment and shall provide information on the classification and labelling of the products. The awareness of farmers of health problems related to plant protection products is included in the ongoing training organised and monitored by the regions under the FITO licence. Furthermore, the aim is to make professionals more aware of the importance of personal protective equipment in the framework of the 2023-2027 programme of the Federal Reduction Plan for Plant Protection Products. It is also intended to systematically inform them of the results of the Toxicological Surveillance System set up in 2019 to gather all available information with the help of the Antitoxin Centre in case of acute poisoning of professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u85	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. You refer to the NAPAN, for which the public consultation ended and on which we had a very interesting hearing. I've analyzed that plan very thoroughly and it doesn't excel in ambition. It looks very much like the NAPAN from the previous period, which ends this year. That's why I'm worried. It is indeed much of the same. I fear that the same objectives will produce the same results, while farmers are sick throughout Europe. In Italy and France, there seems to have been sufficient research to conclude that there is an occupational disease. Depending on the interpretation, according to one scientist, there are or are not enough reasons to recognise these diseases as occupational diseases for farmers. We shall then hope that sufficient research will be carried out. Besides, there's never any research into the cocktail effect. The effect of exposure to a high dose of nicotinic acid at a given time shall be investigated. The effect of the use of a particular pesticide is also investigated. However, one never looks at the cocktail effect. That worries me so much for vulnerable groups such as pregnant women and small children and, of course, for farmers themselves. It is therefore a good thing that target groups are included, but it is farmers who are the closest to helping them. This is because they are using pesticides. I'm still worried. Fortunately, the phyto-licensing in the NAPAN is being re-used, but it is not more ambitious than in the previous period and even the Boerenbond prevention service recognises that there are still problems in the plans for the previous periods. So we must dare to reform our ambitions, but I do not see that in the NAPAN. We shall certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u86	Minister, this is a very detailed question. The latest response we can trace dates back to 2016. After six years we still find it worth asking for an update. These are a limited group of 41 patients who were infected with the HIV virus by blood transfusion in the 1980s even before the legislative work was completed. A compensation scheme has been put in place, but unfortunately it has not been able to ensure that all the victims have been compensated. In concrete terms, 41 patients with HIV and some 1,200 patients with hepatitis C were infected in this way. The KCE has been investigating this. It has also made a statement, because it advocates 20,000 euros per patient. We have seen little evolution in this file since 2016. Can you give us an update?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u87	It is true that in the KCE report No. 273AS, entitled Financial compensation for victims of transfusion accidents, an attempt to reduce discrimination, which dates back to 2016, has been made proposals to provide lump sum compensation for victims of blood transfusions. Maybe you didn't see it, but in December 2020 I answered a written question from Mr Verherstraeten, essentially saying that in 2016 there was indeed research on hepatitis C contracted by a blood transfusion in the 1980s. This problem is not easy, even because the cause of the infection is little or not always known. Information on possible blood transfusions is also not always available. It should also be borne in mind that a blood transfusion is not the only source of infection for hepatitis C. In addition, I would like to stress that health insurance has been paying back treatment for chronic hepatitis C for several years. The report of the Federal Knowledge Centre may be useful as a starting point, but I think it should be reviewed in the light of what we know today. I wrote all that to Mr Verherstraeten. What is certain is that the current Medical Accidents Act does not provide for the treatment of non-medical incidents that have occurred before 2 April 2010. At present there is no clarity as to the feasibility of charging the Medical Accidents Fund with such a mission. This requires new legislation. I would like to refer to the questions put by your colleague Mr Depoorter and my answers. The Medical Accidents Fund is working on a hell of a catch-up exercise, based on current legislation. So I am not in favour of enlargement, you will understand. So much for my response to Mr Verherstraeten. I can tell you that the latest generation of antiretrovirals against hepatitis C virus is being repaid. There are therefore new reimbursement conditions since 1 January 2017. It is important that the disease is also cureable. In addition, the fibrosis stage criteria were eased so that patients have faster access. Up to 2018, approximately 1,100 patients were reimbursed hepatitis C medicines. As of 1 January 2019, the criteria were relaxed again, giving access to the early stages of the disease. As a result, 1,000 additional patients were admitted. Today's objective is first of all that any hepatitis C patient can be cured by using the most modern medicines. The reimbursement of medicines used to treat HIV infection is also evolving in a favourable way. Since 1 October 2019, for example, several combination medicines have seen a decrease in prices. To your second and third questions, I can answer that the victims who would be eligible for compensation are both direct and secondary victims. The figures you give in your question are figures based on the KCE report No. 273 from 2016. It is an estimate, which cannot, of course, take into account the potential deaths of direct and secondary victims in the following years. The number of new infected and detected cases with hepatitis C is also steadily decreasing as the years progress. That is a positive effect that we should offset. However, I have to disappoint you a little. The KCE did not carry out any more recent calculations and did not publish any more recent opinions. You also asked for an overview of the situation in other countries. For this, I refer you to the 2016 report. I'd like to give it to you, because I have it on paper here, but everything I can say about it comes from that report. Maybe it's better if you just read that. On the question of compensation from the point of view of a medical accident, I am somewhat reluctant for the reasons given. We just have to try to do better across the board for those suffering from hepatitis C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u88	Mr Minister, we have indeed missed Mr Verherstraeten's question, but we will look at it in detail. I follow you when you say that we must do our utmost for all HIV and hepatitis C patients, no matter how infected they are. However, the 2016 KCE report also states that they are entitled to compensation because they could not do anything about the contamination. I can understand why we'd fall into a wasp's nest if we included that in the Medical Accidents Fund. However, I also understand the patients who may now be given the right medical care but have been in the cold for years and feel disadvantaged by it. My last question was not about what the report says about our neighbouring countries, but about how things have evolved over the last six years and what we can learn from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u89	Minister, this very detailed question comes from the National Action Plan for Hormone Interrupters, the NAPED. During the super interesting hearing with your services about the NAPED, a strange contradiction between two types of legislation emerged. According to current legislation, a webshop should not say that there are no harmful parabens or phthalates in products, for example. A webshop for children's and baby products announced that there are no parabens and phthalates in their baby cream. They were targeted by the BFSA and the FPS Public Health because that is contrary to European legislation which says that it should not be said that those products are not in it, because it is then suggested that they are harmful products. The NAPED says that we need to work with traders and sellers so that they have to and will communicate very clearly about harmful substances. So the lady who runs the webshop didn't understand this at all. In the context of the NAPED, she is expected to communicate proactively that there are only healthy products in the baby cream she sells, but if she does, she will be fingered by the FPS Public Health and risk a fine. So she doesn't know what else to do or what to do. You cannot change that regulation, especially at European level, but you can ask your services to stop being proactively sanctioned on that part of European legislation. How do you feel about that? Would you like to include the idea of non-active sanctioning in your guidelines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u90	Mrs Creemers, I shall first give you the general framework. We try to work from the vision of One World, One Health. All requests for information on chemicals and their effects on health and the environment are, of course, very much welcomed and taken into consideration. Several initiatives are now being developed by the competent authorities to reduce the exposure of the Belgian population to chemicals, in particular to hormone disrupters. As far as your first question is concerned, informing consumers and health professionals about the composition of consumer products such as cosmetics is indeed essential. Awareness-raising and information actions for this target group will therefore be included in the future National Action Plan for Hormone Interrupters, the NAPED, which has as its main objective the reduction of exposure to hormone disrupters. In order to be useful, this information must be accurate, accurate and correct in accordance with international rules, as I explained in my written reply. As far as your second question is concerned, the claims relating to the absence of classes of substances such as parabens and phthalates refer to all substances of those classes, while their properties may differ greatly from one substance to another. Some of the substances pose no risk in cosmetic products and also have an important function, such as protection against pollution. Furthermore, claims about the absence of a substance or a group of substances do not provide information on the other ingredients of the product, which may lead to undesirable substitutions. A substance-by-substance approach based on the list of ingredients on the product label is therefore preferable. In this context, the inspection services will continue to check whether the provisions of European Regulation No. 655/2013 establishing common criteria for the justification of claims on cosmetic products shall be complied with. As far as your third question is concerned, it is important to note that there is a review of the cosmetics regulation itself at European level, which will allow a more comprehensive approach to the problem of hormone disrupters. Specific provisions should be laid down for substances that have been categorized as hormone disruptors in order to prohibit them in consumer products, except for certain uses considered essential. The definition of these essential applications is also being developed at European level, and my services are closely involved in this work. As regards your fourth question, NAPED will develop different types of information actions for the general public and consumers. These include awareness campaigns on hormone disruptors and the availability of mobile applications Scan for Gem in Belgium. Action will also be taken to contribute to the evolution of European legislation on the management of hormone disrupters and to strengthen the control of products on the Belgian market. My services will pay particular attention to the problem of hormone disrupters in order to contribute to the implementation and compliance with the NAPED objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that the European adjustment will come soon, because that has quite a tradition of dealing with generations. The first REACH regulation dates back to the year in which my son was born and he is now 16 and by the time we get on with this REACH regulation, he will be 21. I understand what you're saying. Not all parabens are bad, not all phthalates are bad, but to understand all these very detailed product names, one must have followed a higher degree in chemistry. We cannot expect every consumer to know the difference between phthalate No. 23 and paraben No. 97 to know which is harmful and which is not? We can't expect every consumer to have an app that doesn't even work 100 % and isn't up to date for scanning or typing over a difficult ingredient? I find that all too cumbersome. I know of other brands who meanwhile are afraid of the words 'no parabens' or 'no phthalates' and so put no nasty chemicals on their labels, but with that they actually say that all chemical crap is potentially harmful. It is still very difficult to communicate if one can only say that paraben no. 97 is bad and not that there are no parabens in a particular product. We really heard in that hearing the goodwill of the services set up by the NAPED to move forward and move faster than Europe. They also said at that hearing that it is extremely difficult to go against the lobby into regulation and that they therefore place a great deal of responsibility on the consumer. Over the last few months, I have seriously studied the subject of hormone disrupters communication. That communication isn't easy. If a company, a store, a small webshop is not allowed to say that there are no parabens and phthalates in a particular product, I fear that we are by definition not going to achieve the objective of communicating well, communicating openly, smoothly and accessible about hormone disrupters. I hope that there will soon be openness in the regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u92	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Cardiology League recently launched a campaign to better understand and raise awareness of cholesterol risks. There are two forms of hypercholesterolemia: the family form which is of genetic origin and which results in a very high blood cholesterol concentration, from an early age. This form concerns about 25,000 Belgians. The second form, rather linked to the patient's health, affects about 1.7 million Belgians between 35 and 84 years of age. Hypercholesterolaemia, whether genetic or lifestyle-related, may lead to a sometimes high risk of atherosclerosis in those affected. According to WHO, atherosclerosis, which results in an accumulation of cholesterol on and in the arterial walls, is the underlying cause of 85% of deaths from heart attack and stroke. Minister, how does the federal government work with federated entities, particularly in terms of prevention and awareness to combat hypercholesterolemia and avoid cardiovascular disease in general? How to improve early detection and treatment of patients? How can patients who have already had a stroke and are most at risk of developing complications be better monitored if their cholesterol is not under control? Would INAMI have any recent figures on the financial cost of hypercholesterolemia in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u93	Mrs Zanchetta, the priorities proposed at the intercabinet working group meetings for the Interdepartmental Conference in terms of prevention and awareness are the screening programs for cervical, breast, colorectal cancer, non-covid-19 vaccination, neonatal screening, HIV and hepatitis C. There are therefore already many priorities. At the moment, there is no project under development between the federal and the Communities on hypercholesterolemia. But primary prevention and health promotion (exercise, healthy eating, tobacco and alcohol control) are important. This primary prevention falls within the competence of the federated entities, knowing that prevention is discussed with federated entities within the framework of the ICD Public Health. With regard to cardiovascular diseases, currently one of the INAMI projects of the care path is one of the health care objectives aimed at obesity in children, which is indirectly related to cardiovascular diseases. It is important to be aware that care should begin with the insured. It is a question of healthy behaviour: quitting smoking, practicing a sport, observing good eating habits, etc. The front-line physician can help raise awareness by providing advice and close follow-up to patients with a history of cardiovascular disease. In the vast area of hypercholesterolemia, the different types and consequences for the health of the individual, it is difficult to estimate the impact on health and to go into the details of the medical interventions related to the consequences. What is really due to hypercholesterolemia is difficult to encrypt. Indeed, the consequences of hypercholesterolemia are multiple. The classification of health benefits does not distinguish between screening, treatment and follow-up interventions. Statin-prevention drug therapies could be explored, but they are controversial. Many patients are unnecessarily receiving statins. I can refer to a report by the Federal Knowledge Centre "The use of statistics in the primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases" (report 3, 106 and 324). Since 2002, the annual number of people using cholesterol-lowering medicines in the statin family in Belgium has increased from 400 000 to 1 500 000. Currently, 25 per cent of the population aged 40 and over are using these drugs. Despite the price declines due to the fact that all statins are currently available in a generic form, their total cost for health insurance is still around 130 million euros per year in 2016. Analysis of individual consumption in a sample of the population shows that in Belgium about 50% of new users of statins do not take this treatment properly or terminate their treatment prematurely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answer. I did not expect a more detailed answer because it is known that hypercholesterolemia is a silent killer. You only know that you have too much cholesterol in your blood when an accident occurs, unless you do regular tests. You have highlighted the fact that sometimes drugs are prescribed when they are not justified. They are therefore misunderstood and this is of no use, of course. That remains, I think, despite everything a matter of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u95	Mr Minister, recently, the Belgian mutualities once again deplored the commodification of certain sectors of health care, and in particular that of medicines. They cite examples, such as the price of Sovaldi, a hepatitis C medicine from Gilead, which would cost more than 40 000 euros while production costs would only amount to a few hundred euros. The same is true for Novartis' Zolgensma, a treatment for spinal amyotrophy in children, much of which we heard about the case of little Pia a few years ago. Here, we reach EUR 2 million per treatment, whereas the production costs of this treatment would be only around EUR 60. The mutuals denounce prices that are far too high to "grant dividends to shareholders on the account of the community", as they point out, and deplore the blackmail in the head of pharmaceutical companies when a country contests these prices too high. Mutuals therefore call for regulation of the price of medicines because, as they stress, it is also a question of social justice. What do you think about the position of mutualities? Is there, in your opinion, a commodification of medicines orchestrated by pharmaceutical companies? Do you confirm that some firms are blackmailing countries that would challenge these too high prices? What measures do you envisage to regulate this situation, to rebalance the interests of the pharmaceutical industry and the general interest? What is the status of discussions with pharmaceutical companies as part of the plan for the future? Finally, Jean-Pascal Labelle, owner of Solidaris, referred to the fact that a model of the "fair price", starting with the cost of producing the medicine, was being studied. I wish I'd heard from you about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u96	This is a very broad debate. Price setting is the responsibility of the Minister of Economy, who, in setting prices, must reconcile the economic interests of consumers – patients – with those of companies, by deciding on an acceptable price level so that they can invest in research and development. Of course, we are involved in the reimbursement of medicines that are reimbursed. In this area, the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products plays a crucial role. You mention examples of proprietary medicinal products whose prices are extremely high: Sovaldi and Zorgensma, both of which are refunded under convention, according to the famous Article 111, due to the scientific and clinical uncertainties surrounding these medicines. In this case, the health insurance does not pay the official price of these expensive medicines. How do I see the problem? The price of medicines is always unilaterally fixed by industry. So, as buyers of a drug, we're not really in charge. The conduct of health technology analyses assesses the therapeutic value of new treatments and often results in a reduction in costs compared to the prices charged by industry for these expensive drugs. However, the pressure from the industry remains strong. Of course, we must also be prepared to value innovation by industry. In my view, we must work to make companies and the general public aware of the realistic price that must be paid for promising therapy. In this sense, I believe that sufficient and available procedures and expertise are necessary. It is necessary to start from our willingness to pay: what are we prepared to pay for a medicine, given its added value, instead of simply relying on the unilateral fixing of a price by a firm in the sector? Corporate social responsibility must be called for in this regard. In any case, we need procedures that make it possible to advance this notion of a correct willingness to pay, thanks to which we are more at the controls of what is happening. I am preparing a pact with the pharmaceutical industry, which is being renewed before every new legislature, but I have been quite late. Procedural reforms, particularly within the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products, will be very important in this area. At the same time, I am also thinking about reforms to be introduced into the convention system – article 111 and others. I am also thinking about how to reconcile rapid access to innovative products with price fixing and therefore reasonable reimbursement. I apologize for giving you a very general answer, but I think that is an important challenge. It will be at the heart, I believe, of the pact with the pharmaceutical industry, if we succeed, and that is my ambition. It will be a matter of finding appropriate and reasonable solutions to the problem you raise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u97	Minister, I thank you for this answer which, although it is general, suits me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u98	The attached questions 55025912C by Mr Robby De Caluwé, 55026815C by Ms Nathalie Muylle and 55027190C by Ms Catherine Fonck are postponed. Ms. Kathleen Depoorter's question 55025972C was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u99	Mr President, this question deserves a brief update. Minister, a few weeks ago, I was asking you about the revision of our testing strategy. At that time, two scenarios were being considered. One was based on the corona barometer and the other was based on earlier indicators in the first line. Today, these discussions seem to be getting better. We talked about putting this barometer in a closet, in a drawer - I don't remember the term used in the press anymore. The media let filter some information suggesting that we would instead move towards testing, tracing and quarantine rules modelled on the mode of the corona barometer, with the famous color codes. Minister, as a result of this evolution, do you confirm that we are moving towards a testing strategy based on the corona barometer mode? Could you explain to us what this would be in practice? Apart from hospital admissions and intensive care occupancy, what indicators will this future testing strategy use to be effective? Finally, when will this new testing policy be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u100	Mrs Zanchetta, rather than testing strategy, I had as my subject the testing barometer, which is perhaps even more interesting. I believe that you rightly stress that our reflection on the evolution of our testing and tracing strategy focused on the need to preserve the legibility of the applicable rules, while ensuring that data are available in time and in time to indicate a possible resumption of the epidemic in order, of course, to be able to take the necessary measures to curb it at the appropriate time. In this context, the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference met on 9 March and decided to refine its testing, isolation and quarantine strategy to reflect the current epidemiological situation. We have therefore approved a comprehensive scheme that will allow for a faster activation of this strategy in the future, allowing for faster containment of the virus's circulation. This scheme, or sort of barometer, takes into account the level of viral circulation and morbidity caused by the virus and the ICU indicators (hospitalisation, impact on the first line, impact on mental health). These indicators are wider than those of the barometer, more nuanced, richer. But the goal of a faster response to a new risk of concern remains essential. Since 17 March and on the basis of the Level 2 risk assessment with high viral circulation, but with a limited morbidity impact for the general population, testing, isolation and quarantine measures only apply to high-risk contacts within the household. In these cases of contact, there is no longer a requirement for testing or quarantine, but it is always strongly recommended that everyone, whether vaccinated or not, wear a mouth mask for contacts outside the home for seven days after high-risk contact within the home or, if the mouth mask is not possible, do a daily self-test. This recommendation applies to all persons six years of age and older. Systematic screening for high-risk contacts and possible quarantine are maintained in the event of outbreaks of infection among vulnerable groups such as residential care centres after analysis by the responsible physician. People at increased risk of serious covid-19 due, for example, to immunosuppression, may also be tested by PCR testing after high-risk contact if their treating physician deems it useful. The full opinion of the RMG is available here. The accessibility of the tests is guaranteed by the maintenance of the test centres for the moment. It is still possible to perform a rapid antigenic test with the pharmacist. Recovery certificates based on a positive TAR are now issued. They are available and valid from the twelfth day after the positive TAR is taken and remain valid until the 180th day after the sampling. For previous positive RAT tests carried out up to 180 days ago, it is now possible to create such a certificate. Inter-federal collaboration in testing and tracing has proved to be an essential element of crisis management. Under the coordination of the Interfederal Testing & Tracing Committee, various devices have been developed such as test code databases, vaccinations, the Coronalert application and the CovidSafe application, various online tools, etc. This fruitful collaboration will continue so that we are even better prepared for future health crises. All these provisions were decided on the basis of the opinions of the RAG and RMG. They are therefore applicable. Together, these measures must enable us to contribute to the reduction of provisions following the decline of the various indicators, while ensuring that we are able to identify the evolution of the pandemic in our country as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u101	Minister, thank you for that clarification. They are of course always useful. Indeed, even if the situation is really different from what we have seen in recent months, the virus continues to circulate. It is important to know that he is under surveillance and that we can respond to the situation where we should be facing a pandemic again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u102	Mr. Secretary, question is about telemedicine. In reply to a previous question from me, you indicated that you wanted a different or new framework for the reimbursement of teleconsultations and videoconsultations, different from the framework used during the corona crisis, as there would be overconsumption in certain cases. A working group was set up under the direction of Professor Van den Bruel, who would have had an opinion on a new approach and funding of telemedicine by March of this year. What's the status? When will this advice be ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u103	I can confirm that the reflection group led by professors Van den Bruel and Belge is currently finalising the draft note. I expect this in the very short term. I'm kind of looking forward to that. I think it is an important exercise, but it is not yet fully completed. With the input of doctors, health insurance funds and the scientific community, this reflection group has examined the position of distance consultations in today's general practitioners' practice. I would like to stress that this note will only deal with the organisation and financing of teleconsultations, both by telephone and video, in general practitioners. There are other aspects of telemedicine, e.g. telemonitoring, teleexpertise, e-health applications. These are extremely important, but are not discussed in this group. An interim temporary framework for teleconsultations was also developed. An important starting point was that it should be an additional means of providing care and not a replacement for physical consultations. Care should be taken to ensure that patients do not opt for teleconsultations instead of physical consultations for financial reasons. That is why they chose brake money at that stage. In the case of videoconsultations, it is technically possible to collect the personal share in an efficient way. On the one hand, the video connection makes it possible to display a QR code with payment data to the patient. Moreover, there are several healthcare professions that have been working in this way for a long time. On the other hand, a number of video consultation platforms have meanwhile built in a payment module that allows doctors to send payment requests to the patient and also be immediately notified when the payment has been made. Although it is relatively easy to send the patient a payment request via digital means (sms, mail, whatsapp), this is a bigger organisational challenge for a telephone consultation. I think I can answer your second question in the affirmative. In reply to your first question, I hope that I will have the note as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u104	Like you, I look forward to that draft note, Minister. I think telemedicine can bring me a fundamental change in our care landscape. Like you, I believe that it should be complementary and that it can be a qualitative improvement for those who need more follow-up or reassurance. You state that telemedicine must not be an alternative to cheaper consultation. I agree with that, too. All I was wondering was how the brake money is collected, but that new technology does make this possible. With telephone consultations, that will indeed be a bit more difficult. I would warn against the fact that there were outliers. We need to find out what is going on there and why there are such an exuberant number of consultations attested by a few. I think we should tackle this problem rather than put a brake on telemedicine, which I can see the added value of.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u105	According to the FAGG website, four refund-approved combination rapid tests for SARS-CoV-2 and influenza were listed, but perhaps that figure is no longer correct. Anyway, curiously enough, the rapid tests for influenza were not once reimbursed; the combination test is now apparently reimbursed, even if it is limited to the combination tests for professional use. How often has influenza been tested for in medical practice in the last 5 years? What kind of tests were used for this? The website of the FAGG mentions sensitivity and specificity, but only for the combination tests. Isn't there a separate test for the susceptibility and specificity to influenza an sich? Why isn't that mentioned separately? Apparently, the sensitivity and specificity values of the different antigen tests, including regular corona tests, are simply taken over from the package leaflets drawn up by the manufacturers. However, I thought that the FAGG itself did tests on it or ordered labs to evaluate the tests. Is it your intention that the single antigen tests for influenza will also be refunded? Are the results of these tests recorded in any way, for example via eHealth? Is that a requirement for reimbursement? I am referring to the registration of the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u106	An external quality evaluation of Sciensano from 2019 shows that most labs use the following tests: BinaxNOW Influenza A&B by Abott and BD Veritor Influenza A/B by Becton Dickinson. However, I do not have any data on the number of tests carried out. Those dates aren't available either. You also had questions about what the website of the FAGG says about sensitivity and specificity. Indeed, the sensitivity and specificity values mentioned apply only to SARS-CoV-2 and not to influenza testing. The reason is that the list was drawn up as a guide for Sars-CoV-2 determination. The combination tests were only published at a later stage. Therefore, for reasons of clarity, sensitivity and specificity values for influenza are not included in the list. They are mentioned in the instructions for use of the combination tests. You are suing that the information was apparently simply taken from the package leaflets. However, when the list was initially drawn up, there were almost no independent validation studies of Sars-CoV-2 antigen tests available. It was therefore decided to take the values from the package leaflet if they were sufficiently substantiated. This was checked by requesting and evaluating the performance studies of the manufacturers. Some 15 tests have already been refused due to the lack of sufficient qualitative validation dates. The FAGG website also warns that the mentioned package leaflet values should be interpreted with caution, and that the real life performance depends on various factors, including the type of steel, the steel treatment, the stage of infection and the viral load. The website also refers to independent validations by the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND). Refund for single antigen tests for influenza is not foreseen. The RIZIV has not yet assessed the clinical usefulness of these tests, the cost-efficiency and the budgetary impact of any future reimbursement. You're asking if the results will be captured. No specific benefits in kind are provided for combination tests covid and influenza. For the time being, reimbursement of combination tests can be made through the benefits in kind for the covid-19 tests. Reporting the results for COVID-19 is a condition of remuneration. No circuits are available for reporting the results of influenza tests if the test is performed outside a lab.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u107	Mr Minister, in my opinion it is up to the FAGG to evaluate and verify for itself that reliable tests are included in the list. Now I hear that is going to be based on the data that manufacturers can deliver. For example, the Rega Institute would be particularly suitable to help evaluate and check the tests. It's doing the same thing on its own. I propose that the FAGG be consulted with the Rega Institute, for example, to recharge its data. In this respect, we can take an example from the Netherlands, where several labs place their research results and evaluation of the various tests online in a kind of shared document, allowing them to see from each other how they evaluate the tests and what performance they have. You should note that the single antigen tests for influenza are not being reimbursed for the time being and that an evaluation is ongoing. Re-use and reimbursement would undoubtedly be cheaper for the community, at least if they were performing, than if PCR tests were to detect influenza. So there are still some developments ahead of us. For the evaluation of the tests, I would suggest that contact be made with the specialized labs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u108	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u109	Mr Van Hecke, you are asking what specific measures are envisaged to improve the flow in the forensic psychiatric centers? I can tell you that I have commissioned the network coordinators for care path-interneers (ZTG) to analyse the care path of interned persons within each network. As you know, they are organized by court of appeal. The analysis should examine not only the outflow from the prisons, but also the flow through the entire care chain. On the basis of this analysis, each network ZTG should draw up an overall plan, indicating its vision of how it will achieve these objectives. It is important, however, that this vision is in line with the broader reform of the mental health system that we are now rolling out, which is basically that we want people who have been interned to be reintegrated into society. Connected to such a global plan, which the networks will have to deliver in autumn 2022, I expect from each network concrete project proposals to operationalise the plan. You ask if we will establish fixed criteria for patients to be eligible for outflow from the forensic psychiatric centers. The discharge routes shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. They are systematically well prepared internally by the various disciplinary teams and the departments of the FPCs. They will be succeeded by the Internal Advisory Commission under the chairmanship of the Chief Medical Officer. What's that about? There is a preparation for treatment, a risk assessment, the development of a tailor-made risk management. We must also keep in close contact with the service or the provision to which the patient is referred, because we must, of course, ensure the continuity of care. You will hear what we really want to do is to provide tailor-made care, leaving out the needs of those people. This also makes it difficult to establish strict criteria for the outflow from the FPCs. I therefore think that the answer is rather that we are not going to do so, and I must acknowledge immediately that we certainly still need to take steps to improve the coordination between the FPCs and the follow-up institutions on, among other things, the sharing of data, the use of shared support tools and the speaking of a common language. There is therefore a need for streamlining, but I do not think that we should try to translate this into very strict criteria for outflow. You also asked a procedural question, namely when I estimate that the high security longstay will be ready for deployment and at what stage of the founding process we are now in. Achieving the FPC lungstay is a two-fold process. The Flemish government is preparing a GRUP to find a location. In parallel, the federal government is preparing public procurement to launch the effective construction. I'll give you the state of play. The Flemish government, in consultation with us, has commissioned the GRUP to be launched. This is a planning process, worked out with a whole team of representatives from the Flemish Department of Environment, but also from the Directory of Buildings, our FPS Health, our FPS Justice and the city of Aalst. The plan team will work out the documents and take care of the progress. This should result in a starting note, which has already been approved by the Flemish Government on a proposal from Minister Demir. The Flemish government has included five locations as a possible site for an FPC lungstay. At the moment, the public consultation on that launch note is still ongoing, or perhaps it has just been completed. The next steps are a scoping note, a preliminary draft GRUP, a draft GRUP with public research, a final GRUP, an environmental permit and then the effective construction. At the latest in the draft GRUP, a single site will be chosen and developed on the basis of the plan-environmental impact report and the spatial research. As soon as the preliminary determination of the draft GRUP has taken place, the Buildings Regie will start drawing up a design or a construction plan. That is the start of the process of obtaining an environmental permit. The award of the DBFMO project is scheduled for 2024, after which the private partner will prepare and submit the environmental permit application. I've been going over it rather quickly, Mr Van Hecke, so you can have my text. Then you'll see the structure. You then asked very relevantly and rightly what interim solutions are available. At the moment, there is actually no question of closing down the FPCs. One succeeds in realizing a certain flow of patients. It is a fact that in a minority of patients the treatment in the FPC is not or no longer appropriate. The consultation between the FPCs and the follow-up committee will discuss this issue. No concrete slopes have been worked out yet. It is not so obvious to provide additional capacity in healthcare for this target group, which mainly needs a living environment within a secure context, with adapted infrastructure and accompanying staff. In the meantime, however, the Minister of Justice and I have been given the opportunity by the Council of Ministers to recruit additional care staff in the existing context. In the interim, for 2024 is not tomorrow, maximum remediation and proper care for the prisoners can be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I would like to respond to one more point, namely the outflow. We have the feeling that it is difficult to organise this outflow, because interned people often cannot pass through for further treatment either. The result is that fewer interned people, who were first admitted to prison, can also pass to the FPCs. This leads to more internees in prison, which leads to more overcrowding. Well, there's a certain impression it's slipping a little bit. This is problematic because one must have a follow-up course once one can orient the treatment to the outside world. The flow of new internees must be able to begin. The enlargement, the longstay and the expansions in the French-speaking area are coming. That's very important. I know that this is very complex and that it is not going so fast, but I do think it is important that cooperation between the various departments and departments is working well in order to achieve the objective. I also regularly ask questions about this to the Minister of Justice. It is sometimes said that the degree of democracy can be measured by the way in which one deals with the weakest in society. Well, those internees belong to that, too. I thank you once again for your answer and hope that we will be able to take great steps forward in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic765x.u111	My answer was perhaps a little dated, so I had to look for the good words. We are well aware of this. By 2024, that longstay in Aalst will be there. That will take a while and in the meantime, of course, there are also problems. I would just like to reiterate that the Minister of Justice and I have, in the meantime, been given room to recruit additional care providers. We still have to find those people, but that can reduce the pressure a little, even temporarily, without being euphoric about it.
