ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u1	Minister, Lineas is currently the largest private rail freight operator in Europe and therefore also in our country. The company now faces some challenges. Recently, General Director Geert Pauwels left and his departure was attributed to poor financial performance. Last year Lineas sold part of his traction to rent them again afterwards. That sale-and-lease-back operation was meant to reduce the debt mountain. A capital injection from the shareholders was also made earlier. How do you view Lineas' financial situation as the competent mobility minister and representative of the minority shareholder who is the Belgian government in Lineas? What role will Lineas play in your ambition to double rail freight transport by 2030? Does the federal government consider Lineas to be a company of national strategic importance? Are additional steps needed because of the federal government to financially support Lineas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u2	Mr Roggeman, first of all I would remind you that Lineas is a private company and that the federal state is a minority shareholder. Moreover, the supervision of FPIM, the Belgian real shareholder, is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I therefore invite you to ask him your questions about the role of the State in Lineas's shareholding. As Minister of Mobility, it would not be appropriate to comment on the financial situation of a private company. However, Lineas has historically been an important company, with which I have regular contacts to find together solutions consistent with Belgian and European legislation to ensure its development and to allow it to play its role in relation to rail freight transport. Lineas' role in the government's objective of doubling the volume of rail freight by 2030 is indeed important given its high share of freight transport in Belgium. However, the company is not the only player. In this dynamic, the cooperation and involvement of all players in the freight sector are important: both the railway companies such as Lineas, the infrastructure manager Infrabel and the other players in the logistics chain. As regards the status of the strategic national company and additional financial support, I refer again to my colleague responsible for finance. But let it be clear that Lineas is an important focus on my policy, which will also benefit from our efforts and measures to develop rail freight transport and improve its financial situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Rail logistics and freight transport are crucial to our ports, which are the cornerstone of our prosperity. That seems too important to me to risk leaving it to French or German companies. Your reform of the subsidy mechanisms in the transport of goods has not proved to be such a good move. Unless you want to see your policy plans for the transport of goods in the garbage can, you will have to take action with the government. It is a historically important undertaking in the sector and I hope that it will remain so. In accordance with your suggestion, I will also put my question to Minister Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u4	Question No 55027973C by Mrs Hanus is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u5	Minister, line 57 between Aalst and Dendermonde is a missing link on the net. The reopening of that line is one of the Flemish railway priorities that has been on the table for some time. In the multi-annual strategic investment plan and the financing of the Flemish Region, a budget of EUR 1 million has been made available for the preparation of a GRUP, a plan-MER, a project-MER and an environmental permit. That project should have started in 2018, four years ago. At a committee meeting in January 2021, you announced that the study on the reopening of the Aalst-Dendermonde railway line was in the tendering phase. In other words, the work had to start. They were looking for a study firm at the time. We're a year later now. That is why I would have liked to go back to the state of play. What's the progress on the project? Did they find a study firm? Are there any intermediate conclusions yet? What about the studies on the technical feasibility, the permits and the drone photos that had to be taken? How do you feel about the reopening of stops such as Gijzegem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u6	Mr Roggeman, Infrabel lets me know that the capacity analysis and the spatial survey on line 57 have been completed. Different alternatives were also identified. Experts will further develop these qualitatively in the coming months. These variants will be compared on the basis of a multi-criteria analysis. The strategic criteria must be carefully chosen. There are no further conclusions yet on the implantation of possible stopping sites. After the construction leave a new communication moment will come for all stakeholders. So it's a little too early to go into it in detail. Thank you in advance for your patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u7	Minister, I have a great deal of patience, but of course that is not limitless. Today I hear that only a first step has been taken. A spatial study has been carried out, but the alternatives still need to be examined, and even the criteria for assessing the alternatives need to be determined before they can be done. Well, then of course we are far from the new fries and we are still far from the final investments. I hear communications are scheduled after construction leave. I'm curious about that. That's how far my patience will go. If you say that you will discuss this with the stakeholders, or that Infrabel will do so, I would ask you not to forget the local authorities. Finally, they are the licensing authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u8	Mrs. Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u9	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u10	Thank you in advance for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u11	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you. International rail transport offers fall within the liberalised rail market segment. It is therefore not for me to comment on the business strategy of companies active in these segments. I can nevertheless join you in the interest of strengthening the continuation of TGV rail links to France at various and accessible rates. As for the search for alternatives, as you know, I place the revival of international rail links at the heart of my action. I am making every effort to encourage new conventional connections at night or at high speed that help us to integrate into sustainable and decarbonized mobility. That is why I have allocated an initial budget of EUR 2 million to support night trains initiatives. In one of my next contacts with Thalys' leaders, I will nevertheless try, even if it is a part of the liberalised market, to obtain more information on the end of this IZY link between Brussels and Paris and I will of course insist on the need to maintain credible and affordable alternatives for all travellers, but this belongs to this private company.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. I can perfectly hear the fact that we are facing a liberalised market, which leaves you little room for manoeuvre. However, as you said, I think it is your duty to do everything you can to develop trains that are ever more accessible, faster and more sustainable to France. I hear there are tracks about night trains. I also hear that you wish, despite everything, to enter into a consultation with that private company. I must admit that I am still a little hungry about the timetable in this regard because people are put on the job by these decisions and expect you, even if you do not have all the cards in hand, to have a solution offered to them as quickly as possible. Indeed, the problem is that low-cost airlines will benefit, as will very polluting buses. It is ultimately all companies that will benefit from this situation when they do not take part in this more sustainable mobility which we all call for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u13	Mr President, Minister, if my information is good, the work has started or is about to be done in the Tri Postal building of the Midi station – a complex that has been delapidated and empty for 20 years – to make it its new headquarters and centralize several of its services. In addition to the renovation of the building, the project includes the construction of a vertical extension of 60 metres high, as well as new accesses, new passenger facilities and greening. This is obviously an essential project for this station, which is a national and international gateway to our capital for many travellers, but also for SNCB staff and residents of this area. Minister, can you provide me with a clear schedule of the various stages of this work in the Tri Postal building? Are there any plans for further development and modernization of the station, including the wharfs and its accesses? If so, can you give me the schedule? Finally, can you take stock of the integration of this project with regional, local authorities and other public transport companies in improving the quality of life for Brusselsers and all users?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Bonaventure, your information is not perfect. If there is work at the Tri Postal, it is, for the moment, only work to maintain the buildings in the state (security work). Indeed, if the decision in principle concerning the construction of a new head office for SNCB has been taken in the past and the company launched a tender in 2017, nothing final has yet been decided as to the exact details of the project, especially since it does not at this stage have a permit from the Brussels Region. It is therefore not possible to give you a clear schedule of the various stages of the work. Everyone, including SNCB, must take into account the evolution of telework in their plans. It must also be borne in mind that every employee must be able to work in good conditions, including railway workers who must be able to collaborate effectively for the benefit of the traveller because they are the ones who drive the trains. This is the prospect that could be offered by the construction of this new headquarters as well as an improvement in the environment of the Midi station, which is important. This station, like many others in our country, must be the subject of accessibility and accessibility improvements. As was mentioned in the presentation of the draft public service and performance contracts, accessibility is at the heart of our ambitions for the future of rail. The intention is to reach 181 independently accessible stations, starting with those which are most frequented such as the one in Brussels-Midi, a gateway to our country for rail travellers. It is located in a neighbourhood that would deserve a better renovation, which is not the responsibility of the federal authority, nor that of SNCB as a public company, but to which we can collaborate, and that is the intention. It's too early to give you details.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u15	SNCB organises a passenger census every year in October in order to get an overview of the number of passengers in each station, both on an average weekday and on weekend days. Those figures are normally posted on the SNCB website in October. This is not yet the case for 2022. Those figures should have been online for eight months, but that information has not yet been published. When can we check last year's traveler count? When will this audience be made? When will it be made available to the Parliament's Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions? How much was the cost of the passenger count in 2021? What does that mean in relation to previous years? Are these censuses still carried out by SNCB staff or do they call on an external partner? Do you agree that the transparency of SNCB can be strengthened? The censuses are usually clear, but other usage data can also be published, such as the number of passengers per railway line, the number of tickets per route, as most scans are now done digitally and the verification of tickets by train escorts is largely digitised. That gives us some opportunity to give us more insight into travel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u16	The censuses are carried out by SNCB to gain insight into the large passenger flows and possible shifts within those general flows. In 2021, there was no passenger count in the stations due to the corona pandemic. The censuses are normally carried out by SNCB staff and external personnel. A budget of 100,000 euros allows students and temporary staff to be recruited to assist the staff of the major stations and rolling stock both during the weekend and during the week. SNCB has the necessary budget to re-implement the censuses in October 2022. I attach great importance to greater transparency with SNCB. In the case of SNCB, there is a reluctance to make certain information public, such as commercial and business sensitive data. This must also be seen in the wider European context of rail transport and the liberalisation of rail transport. However, sharing information with Parliament is important. For this reason, I have decided to redevelop the management agreement into a public service contract, with the emphasis on public service. As a public undertaking, SNCB has an exemplary role to play from the point of view of good governance, of which transparency is part.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm surprised to hear that last year there wasn't a traveler's count because of corona. The corona crisis was also there in the year 2020 and in that year, however, a passenger count was made, so I see no explanation for that. It is what it is, so I look forward to the figures of the next count, which will be published in October. With regard to the reluctance to increase transparency in order to gain a view on passenger numbers and use, I do not agree with the view of SNCB as you confirm in our committee. Of course, commercial sensitivity is not important, given the ten-year extension of the management contract. There is no competition on these lines, so why should commercial sensitivity be taken into account as an argument not to publish data, especially since these data are crucial for investment policy? How can Parliament judge the opportunity to spend millions of dollars if we do not know how many people can enjoy it? Finally, I would like to offer the possibility of dealing with such data, if they are considered sensitive, at a private meeting of the Committee on Mobility. This is also happening in other committees. For example, the Defence Commission has this plowing for confidential and security sensitive information. If SNCB really wants to stick to the delicacy of those dates, I would ask you to at least allow us to get to know them at a private meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u18	Mr Minister, I had tabled a written question on the total invoice of the megalomaniac station building in Bergen. To similar questions about the stations of Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Namur I already received an answer, for which I thank you. However, the question on Bergen's more politically sensitive dossier appears to be very difficult to answer. That is why I am happy to repeat that question, but then orally in this committee. My question is simple: what is the latest estimate of the total cost of the works at Bergen station?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u19	There's a simple answer. The current estimate, of 2010, for the project of the Bergen station is EUR 289.94 million. However, since it is a project in progress, the current economic situation and the uncertainty surrounding its evolution require SNCB to consider this amount with caution, in particular because of the possible impact of these elements on the final cost of the project. The project for the station of Bergen is one of the many inheritances from the past that I have received. Its bases, both budgetary and legal, had been poorly laid from the outset. Today, on the one hand, it is my responsibility to bring the project to a successful conclusion in the best possible circumstances and, on the other hand, to take measures to prevent this from happening again in the future. I have therefore ensured that such excessive projects can no longer be implemented in the future and that supervision of such projects is strengthened. Future management contracts with our public railway companies will ensure this. What we need are more trains, which run on time and are comfortable, more renovated, welcoming and inclusive stations, more fast and cheap international connections. That's what I work on every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I understood correctly, the amount you mention is expressed in 2010 values. Then I hope it is not an estimate that dates back to 2010. That was 12 years ago. If that is the most recent estimate of the total cost of the project, it would mean that the amount has not been updated over the last 12 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u21	It's been updated. You must make the conversion to 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u22	So inflation has to be added. The amount you give is 25 million euros lower than the amount published in De Tijd two years ago. At that time it was about 324 million euros, today it is about 289 million euros. I'll do the math myself. I hope it's actually the last estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u23	Mrs Van Bossuyt is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u24	Mr President, Minister, last week we discussed the airport in detail. Today I would like to emphasise another aspect in this regard. There is a serious crisis in the aviation sector today, not only in our country, but in all countries, including delays, actions, staff shortages and cancellations of flights. Customers sometimes react angry about this, but I would like to say that the staff at Brussels Airlines is currently a quarter smaller than for the corona period. We're paying a price for that now. Brussels Airlines will cancel some 700 flights this summer, which has never been seen. In the meantime, the trade unions are considering the problems of staff who are exhausted and who are no longer able to cope with the combination of heavy flights and high workload. My questions to you, Minister, are mainly from the point of view of travellers. What rights can the affected travellers avail themselves of? Will all passengers on the now abolished flights from Brussels Airlines be able to leave this summer? How many flights will be abolished in total this summer? Does Brussels Airport have a visual on that? Which flights are mostly involved? More like short or rather long-haul flights? Will cargo flights at Brussels Airport also be abolished and, if so, of which airlines and how many? Will the government carry out additional checks on compliance with consumers' rights in relation to aviation? Will the government actively inform passengers through campaigns, for example at the airport itself? Will Brussels Airport Company help inform passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u25	Mr President, I will also answer Mrs Van Bossuyt's questions. Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the European regulation on passenger rights No. 261/2004 lays down specific rights for air passengers in the following cases: denied boarding, cancellation or long delay of flights. I invite you to consult the website of the FPS Mobility, which provides a very good overview of the various cases covered by the European Regulation. Passengers who consider that they have been wronged by an air carrier may also lodge a complaint on that website. My services have recently dealt with a small number of complaints, namely less than ten, about the practices of TUI fly. That is an answer to Mrs Van Bossuyt. Since these practices infringe the European Passenger Rights Regulation, they will require explanations from TUI fly, so that TUI fly will correctly offer the alternative between reimbursement and another flight under similar conditions. Mrs Vindevoghel, I do not have an answer to your questions about SN Brussels Airlines, which are the direct responsibility of this private airline. On the other hand, the cancellation of a flight to offer it later at a higher price appears to be an unfair commercial practice between businesses and consumers in the internal market, for which the Minister for Economic Affairs and/or the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection are competent. My colleagues in charge of consumer protection have asked me to extend the limitation period for actions arising from passenger transport contracts to two years, as is the case with package travel agreements. In 2019 discussions took place between our administrations, but they were interrupted by the covid pandemic. I can tell you that they will be resumed. In this way, we can better protect Belgian consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u26	Mr President, Minister, you know that I already launched a proposal last week to draw up an emergency plan for the airport. After all, we must try to take preventive action in particular and ensure that the many travellers who want to go on holiday can also go on holiday. That is a responsibility of you as Minister of Mobility. That is why it is our idea to sit together with both employers and trade unions at the airport, to ensure that there are enough people and working conditions in particular, so that travellers can travel safely. That remains a major problem. I would therefore like to stress once again that the entire liberalisation of the sector is now showing its impact. The Ryanisation, which Mr Dermagne talked about when I asked him questions about it, is now in practice. This, of course, has a huge impact on passengers and, of course, on the many workers at the airport. Minister, that is your responsibility. You are responsible not only for trains but also for the carriage of passengers taking the plane. I would therefore like you to address the issue at the airport. Our proposal is that there should be an urgent emergency plan to ensure that working conditions are good and passengers can leave safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u27	Mr President, Minister, Infrabel intends to abolish seven railway crossings on Bilzen territory in the coming years. On the infrastructure manager's website it can be read that the progress of the works will be adjusted as much as possible to the realisation of the railway infrastructure for the connection Hasselt-Maastricht van De Lijn. Does the recent decision of the Flemish government to replace the planned speed tram with a trambus have an impact on Infrabel's plans in Bilzen? If so, what impact? Are there any consequences for, for example, the timing of the works and the financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u28	Mr Raskin, Infrabel has sent me the following information. Referring to the recent signing of the cooperation agreement by Minister Lydia Peeters, it is assumed that the Flemish decision to build a tram bus instead of a tram will have no impact on the project itself. Infrabel will present the specifications to the various parties involved in the work in Bilzen for approval in the near future. Constructive consultation is important for Infrabel, and also for me, to arrive at balanced solutions and to move forward, which is also true in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I therefore conclude that the Flemish Government's decision will not have any impact on those seven projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u30	I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the fact that the Minister has made himself extra available to answer questions. What I have less appreciation for is the decision of SNCB not to lay extra night trains to Limburg during Rock Werchter. The Rock Werchter pop festival aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030. That's why this year they made sure that at night, after the festival, two trains would run from the station of Leuven, one towards Mechelen and Antwerp, another towards Brussels and Gent-Sint-Pieters. So there was no train to Limburg. According to SNCB, the night trains are an additional service with journeys outside their subsidies. The extra journeys should therefore be self-sufficient. A ride to Limburg would not be profitable. What does the Minister think of the fact that there was no night train from Leuven to Limburg during the Rock Werchter festival? Can the Minister agree with SNCB's argument? Will the profitability of train connections in the future be the guiding criterion for operating or not operating a train connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u31	The introduction of special trains takes place at the request of the organisers of events and is therefore not regulated by the management contract between SNCB and the Federal State. Additional trains are the subject of a commercial agreement between SNCB and the organisers of the event. That agreement shall determine the main points of departure of the passengers and the trains to be operated. For questions on this subject I invite you to contact the organizer of Rock Werchter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u32	Thank you, Minister. Your answer is clear. So I have to say that Rock Werchter's organisers give priority to organising night connections to regions other than those of the Limburg concert visitors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u33	With Pukkelpop it'll be different.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u34	Mr.President, Minister, in 2021 nine people died in crossing accidents and five people were seriously injured. In addition to the dramatic human consequences, last year's 46 crossing incidents caused 28,411 minutes of delay in train traffic, more than 1:15 a.m. a day. This is the information we can find on Infrabel's website. In order to limit the risks associated with dangerous behaviour in the vicinity of level crossings, Infrabel removes them each year and, where possible, replaces them with bridges, tunnels, parallel roads or cycle paths. Minister, what measures can the government and Infrabel put in place to prevent dangerous behaviour at crossings, including prevention and awareness? Is cooperation with the Regions planned in this direction? It appears that some safety rules for the vicinity of level crossings are quite unknown to the general public. For example, when the fire is extinguished at a crossing, it is under construction. Do you not think that it may be useful to recall these regulations in the context of prevention and awareness-raising campaigns?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u35	Thank you for your questions on this important subject. The very unfortunate accident a few days ago on a road trip to Varsenare once again shows how essential safety is to consider. This is also the subject of a first chapter in the performance contract with Infrabel, which is being negotiated within the government. Until mid-June 2022, Infrabel registered 18 accidents at ground-level rail crossings, resulting in 8 deaths and 1 serious injury. Safety is therefore always the first consideration in any decision that Infrabel makes. The same applies to the question of consideration. In certain cases, depending on the local situation and in consultation with local government, a route will be closed. As far as possible, Infrabel proposes replacing them with mobility alternatives, such as bridges, tunnels or parallel roads. For some level crossings, deletion is not possible in the short term for either budgetary or technical reasons. Infrabel implements and tests certain measures to improve the safety of road users at level crossings. Some measures are still under consideration with regard to their feasibility, some examples of which are: - installation of warning signs to alert road users to the dangers of line climbs at level crossings; - collage of identification stickers to the height of more than 1,394 public level crossings: the identity card of each crossing allows third parties to accurately communicate the location of the crossing when calling emergency services in the event of an accident or incident; - an ongoing pilot project for the installation of flashing LED lamps on barriers to improve their legibility; - an ongoing pilot project for the marking of certain level crossings on the ground in order to improve the perception of road users upon arrival at level crossings; - a pilot project in progress for the installation of cameras with red lights to record the registration plates of vehicles in violation of level crossings and to have them verbalized by the police court; - Warning box test: an awareness-raising tool designed to raise awareness among vulnerable users - pedestrians and cyclists - of the dangers of crossing a closed crossing by means of a sound signal. This device was tested on five level crossings in 2021. Infrabel also organises specific working groups: a working group on safety at rail crossings, in port areas and industrial zones. This group brings together various actors such as the Port of Antwerp company, local police, the SPC, the port police, the fire department of the Waasland zone, the road managers, AWV, the FPS Mobility, the railway companies and Inter Ferry Boats. There are also multidisciplinary working groups. The aim of these working groups is to exchange experiences between the different actors, which contribute to better road safety and to consider more safety. These working groups unite various actors such as the railway police, the permanent committee of local police, the Flemish and Walloon road managers, the search service, the FOD Mobility, the Corporate Security Service, TrainTramBus and Port of Antwerp. Infrabel is also committed to raising awareness among third parties through actions and campaigns. Infrabel also works with the railway police, the local police and Securail as part of control actions. In addition to these measures, the Mobility FPS, in collaboration with Infrabel, conducts annual inspections of safety equipment installed at each level crossing in the network. Following these visits, Infrabel installs additional security equipment at certain level crossings every year. The Royal Order of 11 July 2011 on railway crossing safety features stipulates that this type of crossing must be equipped with an obstacle detection system, i.e. a system that detects if there are no obstacles inside the crossing. Considering full closure has the advantage, on the one hand, of preventing road vehicles from slaloming when barriers are closed and, on the other hand, of avoiding accidents caused by vehicles on the road, for example due to traffic jams. However, when completely closed it is still possible that pedestrians and cyclists slalom and continue under or next to the closed barriers. The addition of nets under the barriers would require the replacement of the frame of each barrier whose mechanism is not adapted to the weight of the nets. The replacement of a road which is currently equipped with partial barriers, by a completely closed system with an obstacle detector, also has the following consequences. There will then be an increase in the closing time of the road and consequently an extension of the waiting time for road users. When the crossing is closed, the train is stopped upstream of the crossing until the crossing is clear and all the barriers are lowered. This would mean that on certain sections the rail signalling would have to be revised upstream of the road. There is also the risk of a reduced punctuality on the line in case of a vehicle stopping on the ground, adjustment of the line's capacity and higher maintenance costs for each road. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you can see that Infrabel is doing a great deal to improve rail safety. That is a continuous task, which is also closely following my cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u36	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'll give you a reply myself first. It is clear that Infrabel pays a great deal of attention to the safety of rail crossings. This is also necessary in view of the number of accidents occurring every year in transitions. I welcome the specific working group which examines the problems of rail crossings in the port areas, because this is a separate problem with fewer barriers and with specific factory entrances and exits along the railways. This is therefore a good thing, with all stakeholders seeking solutions. For the classic rail crossings at ground level, I still feel that the focus is rather one-sided on abolishing ground-level transitions and switching to bridges, tunnels and parallel roads. For the more than a thousand ground-level transitions, I keep having a hard time with the following. I have still not found any conclusive arguments as to why it would not be possible to work with fully closing barriers. I live near the border and see that in the Netherlands I work perfectly. Reference is made to traffic jams. Cars would stay on the tracks. However, the tracks must not stop. It's in traffic regulations. When there is a traffic jams and a driver arrives at a railway crossing, he must wait for the railway crossing until he is sure that he can cross. So that is not really a great argument, especially since today we find that, when an opening is left, people are still using that opening. All kinds of systems are then devised to detect whether someone is doing so, while the transition would better be completely closed. Why a whole barrier would be closed longer than half a barrier is not entirely clear to me either. I therefore wonder whether this has been thoroughly studied and whether it is not simply a matter of looking for reasons not to have to adapt. That's an open question, which I like to leave on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Indeed, as my colleague has pointed out, Infrabel is not left with his arms crossed. We also know, unfortunately, that there is no zero risk and that there will always be accidents. These are, it is unfortunate but it must be admitted, due to the imprudence of pedestrians or cars who commit themselves thinking they can pass and who, in the end, fail to do so. It is also known, as my colleague once again pointed out, that Infrabel's will is to reduce the passages to levels. It's not necessarily a solution. This is an extremely expensive solution. We know each other's finances and we don't create a tunnel or a bridge like that. We know the millions it can represent. As for the solutions, I am not going to comment on this. I imagine that various solutions are being considered. But why not look at the examples of our neighbours, who seem to be working?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u38	Minister, Mr Raskin referred just now to the Spartacus project and to the fact that there will be no tram from station to station, but a tram bus. That has caused a lot of disappointment among many Limburgers. After all, they had for 20 years put their hopes on Spartacus to finally get across the border smoothly. We had also hoped for a strong signal from Brussels and Europe that better mobility from rural areas, such as Limburg, should be promoted. I have some questions about the Spartacus file. Have you been in contact with your regional colleague? What did she tell you? What is her solution to unlock the region sufficiently, knowing that Spartacus has already cost a lot of taxpayers' money and the current outcome clearly does not provide the right solution? The disappearance of Spartacus does not achieve the objective that we have already set several times of an effective, smart and sustainable transport system across land borders. We think it is high time for a clear investigation into the missing links to be taken care of in the Limburg region. How can SNCB contribute to this? What concrete steps will you take not to leave Limburg in the cold after 20 years of hoping for a smooth connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u39	Mr Minister, I have already mentioned to you on a number of occasions in this committee the substandard public transport system in Limburg, and I have always advocated the creation of various rail links. Now that one has decided at Flemish level to opt for tram bus transport as part of the Spartacus project, the realisation of high-quality public transport seems very far away. We have already taken several initiatives to raise the issue of public transport, and especially rail transport in Limburg, in the Chamber, but all the classical parties here always looked at the Flemish level. I now note that this does not go as well at the Flemish level as was expected and that people are coming back to you now to see what you can do. Minister, do you see a role for the federal government in achieving high-quality public transport in Limburg? If not, why not? If so, what role? What actions will the federal railway companies, SNCB and Infrabel, take to expand the network in Limburg?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the railway is the backbone of our public transport and that I want to strengthen that further. That is the philosophy of the 2040 Railway Vision, which I proposed and which was approved by the government in May. This philosophy is also reflected in future contracts with SNCB and Infrabel which the government is currently considering. The general central ambition is to have more trains run in our country and in Limburg. More specifically, SNCB strives for a safe, sustainable, quality and intermodal mobility offer, including in the province of Limburg. Its transport plans increase the number of train kilometres on average by 5% every three years and focus on attracting more customers during off-peak hours and at weekends. The expansion has led to annual passenger growth up to the health crisis of between 3.5 % and 4 % since 2017. In any case, I will continue to work for better rail access in the whole and thus also for the province of Limburg. I am aware that a number of missing links to the east and north of the province need to be addressed. Both I and SNCB take the demand for more high-quality public transport in Limburg very seriously. We are in contact with the various transport regions, which are currently drawing up their regional mobility plans, including the transport region of Limburg. Transport regions can best assess mobility needs at local level and in this case provincial level. The new train connections or stations proposed for Limburg will then be grouped together to analyse their desirability and feasibility, taking into account different criteria. My cabinet is also making a thorough analysis of the situation, in order to propose possible slopes in order to make the region more accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u41	Minister, I hope that it can go faster and that you will not wait for the official declaration of death of Spartacus. That could take a while. With such an official declaration of death, the Dutch hope of getting compensation somewhere. So our hope is on you for a piece, Minister. We have been working for years for a rail link to Maastricht. We never waited for Spartacus to do that. We've always fought for an international rail link. For such connections the train is the most logical option, that is nothing new. Minister, I would like to give you another anecdote on the story of Hasselt-Maastricht. In 1950, in the meantime 72 years ago, it was announced for the first time that that train connection would disappear. Then it was said in Het Belang van Limburg: "If the politicians in Brussels do not start working now, we will soon be faster with the wheelbarrow in Maastricht than with public transport." Maybe we should look up that 72-year-old commentary again. In 2040 the verdict will be 90 years old. We hope that, thanks to your Railway vision 2040, we will no longer have to take the wheelbarrow to Maastricht to be faster than by train. It now takes 2 hours and 45 minutes from Antwerp to get to Maastricht. That can and should be done better, Minister. Our hope is on you to go faster and not to wait for Flemish decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am glad to hear that you are taking public transport in Limburg seriously. I do not wish to doubt your words, but I am surprised to hear what the previous speaker said. We have already taken various initiatives in this Chamber, not to wait for the Flemish level. These initiatives were always collectively wiped off the table, among others by the party of the previous speaker. With the Flemish Interest we certainly were not among those many Limburgers who had a strong hope for the Spartacus project. We were against it from the beginning. We were also joined from the beginning by a devastating report from the Court of Auditors. I understand that there is now a request for a new study at the Court of Auditors. In the meantime, however, enormous damage has already been done. There has been a real mischief. The Limburgers are still waiting for high quality public transport. I find it strange that you are now calling for a train link for which we have always worked, especially in view of the fact that we have come up with an interplay and a motion and then with a resolution, which we wanted to avoid the social and socio-economic isolation of Limburg and the regions behind it in a broad international context, including the super-important Meuse Bridge, which is very essential for a train connection. If it's gone and those demolition plans go ahead, there's never a train to drive. If that is on the table here, I can only say that all those parties simply do not support and vote away these initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I will briefly put my questions together. It concerns an investigation by the Court of Auditors into the legality and legality of various public contracts. It has also, of course, looked at the FPS Mobility. I've selected three cases. It concerns public contracts which failed to check the mandatory grounds for exclusion, public contracts which failed to demonstrate compliance with the information requirements and public contracts where the contractor did not comply with the required guarantee and did not fail to do so. For the rest, I refer to the written questions as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u44	In its report, the Court of Auditors first of all makes the following comments: "The examination of the expenditures selected shows that the FPS Mobility is properly controlling and attempting to comply with public procurement rules as correctly as possible. Most of the files examined have been properly and structuredly documented. The Court also notes progress in complying with the provisions on competing bids, qualitative selection and information obligations, as well as the use of the Telemarc application which makes it possible to verify the grounds for exclusion." So the situation is much more nuanced than Mr Toventors suggests. However, this does not mean that there is no way to improve the public procurement procedure and make it even fairer and more transparent. In this context, updating the procurement procedure is an integral part of the Operational Plan 22 of the FPS. With regard to internal follow-up, the FPS Mobility is currently placing all its public procurement contracts, with the exception of contracts of limited value, electronically through the e-Procurement platform that allows the bid to be received electronically. The last (...) of the FPS Mobility now systematically states that tenderers must attach an extract from the Criminal Register to their tender in order to check whether they are not in a case of exclusion. As regards information obligations, in accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the list of tasks of the Public Procurement Service will be included in a document made available to the staff of the FPS. As regards the guarantee and the late performance of services, the Public Procurement Service has set up a follow-up system for the receipt of the guarantee and a central repository for such documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I support it in part, in the sense that indeed, not everything that can go wrong does not go wrong. I didn't say that for a second. I pulled out three cases that did come back on a more regular basis. Okay, the report doesn't lie about that, of course. I note that SNCB always points out that it wants to correct the errors. It would still be wrong. We will, of course, continue to follow that up, so that it does so in the future, and so that everything can be done quite correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u46	Mrs. Buyst couldn't be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u47	Minister, no less than 44 stations, including the Ronse station, are facing window closures under your presidency. Your promise to make these 44 stations lively places remains a fantasy, in order to prove the situation in Ronse's station. When the ticket office in Ronse was still manned, travellers could still go there for a ticket and for information. Replacement buses were ordered on time. There was less vandalism. The toilet was still open to the travellers. The waiting room was heated. There was a candy machine and a liquor machine. The station and the platform were neat. Travelers felt safer there. Today the station is dead. There's trees growing through the roof. Doors stay locked. The toilet is even closed because of vandalism. Train passengers have not even had one toilet since the window closure. The platform was raised a few years ago, so that the station is supposedly considered accessible to the disabled, were it not that only diesel trains stop, which have a higher entry than electric trains, so that the platform increase had no effect on access to the trains for people with disabilities. A new M7 cannot stop there, because there is no electrification. The platform increase has even harmful consequences for the station building itself. Every rainstorm, with the station building empty, the rainwater runs into the building. Back in the day, the clerks kept getting the water out. Now the water just stays standing. Minister, when will the toilet be reopened for all travellers? How do you evaluate the closing of the counters in 44 stations? How does SNCB evaluate this closure? Do you admit that the promise of lively stations after the window closures cannot be fulfilled? What future does SNCB see for Ronse's historic station building? Has Infrabel taken into account the lower location of the station building compared to the elevated platform? The rainwater now runs from the platform towards the station building without sufficient drainage. SNCB wants to raise EUR 400 million through the sale of real estate. Will station buildings be sold? Will Ronse's station building be sold? What's the estimated value of that station building?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u48	Mrs Vindevoghel, I attach great importance to travel experience in the broad sense and it starts in the stations. We can only make the train more attractive if the stations are also pleasant places. That is why SNCB and I have the ambition to make the stations lively and safe places for meetings and exchanges. This ambition, translated into the Life project at the station, is included in the Railways 2040 and also in the draft contract on public services between the federal government and SNCB. To illustrate the efforts made, I present the latest general state of affairs regarding the Life project at the station. Three quarters of the stations concerned have already responded or market consultations have been conducted on the proposed implementation. In the remaining municipalities, SNCB consults with local authorities in order to arrive at a supported solution. As far as Ronse is concerned, the city and SNCB work together within the framework of Life in the station. Several meetings have already taken place. SNCB has confirmed to me that she is involved in the city's master plan. For the upgrading of the station environment, the city of Ronse, in consultation with SNCB, has developed a grant for the concept study. In that study, the focus is on the redevelopment of the land at the rear of the station and the land released to the west of the station by the relocation of the parking lot. On the other hand, it is also the objective to strengthen the connection with the city centre and to align the functions in that urban compaction in the station environment. For this purpose, the city appointed a design office in the autumn of 2021. At the end of 2021, a first exploratory bilateral discussion took place between the city, the design office and SNCB. A first meeting of the Steering Committee was held in January 2022, presenting the initial ideas or concepts. That process is ongoing. As far as security measures are concerned, police forces and SNCB are in close consultation with a view to taking any additional measures. My cabinet follows that closely. SNCB is currently considering the possibility of temporary entry into service of the station building. However, a number of investments must be made first. To date, the waiting room and the sanitary facilities are open from 5 a.m. to 8 p.m. on working days and from 7 p.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends and public holidays. The sanitary facilities are located in a separate annex building next to the station building, so that everyone can make free use of it. As far as drainage is concerned, the drainage is studied thoroughly in each project, including in Ronse. Infrabel will investigate the phenomenon in question in order to provide the appropriate solution if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u49	Thank you, Minister. According to my information, the toilets are still closed. A colleague passes there every day. Apparently, you're not getting proper information from SNCB. I hope that a solution will be found quickly. Now the station is ruined and if one does not quickly offer solutions, one gets even more vandalism. We also note this in Ronse; vandalism is indeed increasing, because nothing happens to that vacant building. I hope that there will be sufficient resources to put that station back in order. I note that you want to do something about the problem; hopefully it will not take too long and progress will be made in implementing your plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u50	Mr Minister, as a country, people will now be panged between China and Russia, such as Mongolia. Better a good neighbor than a distant friend, but in this case it's really very difficult. During their visit by a Mongolian delegation of Members of Parliament and the Ambassador, I was told that they were experiencing difficulties as a result of sanctions against Russia and Belarus. Trade with the European Union is 13% of the country's trade volume. But much of that transport is done via Russian and Belarusian transport companies and they are no longer welcome on the territory of the European Union. This means that Mongolia has been unable to operate in the European Union since 8 April, while 80% of road transport from Europe to Ulaanbaatar is also carried out by Belarusian drivers, among others. The use of Mongolian drivers themselves could provide a solution. But the Mongolian driving licence is not recognised in Europe. Is the issue being discussed at European level? Is there any possibility of recognising the Mongolian driving licences? Can you raise the issue at Belgian and European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u51	Mrs Van Hoof, the European Union is not responsible for the recognition and exchange of non-European foreign driving licences. Each Member State shall decide which foreign non-European driving licences it recognises and which may be exchanged for a national European driving licence. I can tell you that my administration is in talks with the Mongolian Embassy to receive specimens of driving licences from Mongolia. If they are in accordance with the Vienna Convention, they will be included on the website of the FPS Mobility and can be exchanged in Belgium. The physical specimens are then sent to the Central Office for the Control of Counterfeits, which will use them to verify the authenticity of each licence issued by Mongolia for which a change is requested in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u52	Minister, I thank you for addressing the problem at Belgian level and for the case being brought before the FPS Mobility, in consultation with the Mongolian Ambassador. I believe that there is a need for some urgency, since sanctions will not be lifted immediately and trade between Mongolia and Europe must be maintained, not only in the interests of Mongolia, but also in the interests of the European Union, given today's economically difficult situation. Hopefully, the Mongolian driver's licenses will soon be recognized. False driving licences must indeed be traced. There can be no action at European level, but you may be able to encourage other Member States. When Belgium does something, other Member States usually follow. So I hope that Belgium will play a leading role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u53	Mr Minister, it is my responsibility that work is currently under way on the Belgian portion of the link between Eupen and Stolberg, Germany, and Raeren. A few years ago a project to reactivate this line, within the framework of the Euregiobahn, the German regional network, was mentioned. The authorities of the German-speaking Community were there at the time favourable. It is true that this would make it possible to link the Verviers district to Stolberg - which is still a city of 55 000 inhabitants - and above all, beyond that, to the metropolitan area of Cologne. This would undoubtedly be good news, both for the many cross-border travellers who travel to Germany every day to work and for tourism. However, it should also be borne in mind that this line would cross a Natura 2000 area and that it is also unelectrified, which means that the journey should be made by diesel cars. Minister, do you confirm that this project is being carried out? Is he announcing a forthcoming return to service of the Eupen-Stolberg line? If so, what form would it take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u54	Ms Bonaventure, line 49 Welkeraedt-Raeren is operated by SNCB on the first stretch between Welkeraedt and Eupen. The second section between Eupen and Raeren is now operated only by a private railway maintenance firm located at Raeren station, as well as for Infrabel's work which informs me that conventional maintenance work is currently taking place on a track at Raeren station. According to Infrabel, the third and final section between Raeren and the border with Germany is no longer in operation and currently there is no prospect of a return to service of the line to Stolberg in Germany. So it's just maintenance work that got your attention. It should not be interpreted more broadly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u56	Minister, the social component of the future management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel foresees the abolition of 2,000 positions by 2032. At the same time, the ambition is to increase the supply of trains by 10%. However, according to the CGSP's calculations, the current situation alone would require an increase in the frame of 2,100 people. Do you think, Mr Minister, that enough railway workers have been hired on the Belgian network, even though the total or partial abolitions of trains – there have been 3,882, or 4.2% of the offer in April – are extremely high? In order to make the increase in supply effective, you are announcing significant investments. SNCB and Infrabel have already estimated their additional needs for the next 10 years at EUR 3.4 billion in order to ensure the planned quantitative and qualitative improvements. Minister, I know that we debated all this here three weeks ago, but I still have several questions. How would these investments make it possible to do without 2,000 railway workers? You mentioned "natural departures." Could you specify what form these will take? In which sectors and services are they specifically expected? Who will perform removals and/or changes in functions? Will consultation be used? Have the actors in the field been or will they be consulted? What will be the new jobs of SNCB and Infrabel at the end of these management contracts? Finally, will there be support for workers whom the challenge of digitisation could put in difficulty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u57	Mrs Bonaventure, in order to make rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium, the federal government has set itself an ambitious Vision Rail 2040. This ambition is reflected in the public service and performance contracts of SNCB and Infrabel, whose preliminary drafts I presented to this committee three weeks ago. These contracts set a clear target of 30% more trains by 2032. Driving more trains will inevitably require more railway personnel. There will be more drivers and attendants, as well as train drivers and attendants. To do this, SNCB will recruit more than 600 additional full-time equivalents at the rolling staff level. It is also a fact that the rail trades evolve, with the needs of passengers, technological developments, the purchase of new equipment, investments and industrial plans related to the missions of public railway undertakings. For example, the replacement of 50 per cent of rolling stock by 2032, the new infrastructure and the modernization and digitization of processes will lead to better service and fewer staff. The SNCB is indeed planning a ten-year change in the number of jobs, which will be the result of natural retirements which will not be replaced by 100%. As already announced, there will be no job cuts, no dismissals; 70% of the jobs that will not be renewed are corporate and managerial profiles whose number is historically high at SNCB and 30% are operational functions for which the profile will evolve thanks to the various investments, notably in the digitisation and modernisation of rolling stock. At the level of Infrabel, the introduction of the business plan Operations will make it possible to optimize the use of machinery, locomotives, wagons, rail machinery and materials. Infrabel also foresees changes in employment over the period 2022-2032. Again, we are talking about reducing the framework through planned retirements and voluntary departures. There is no mention of layoffs. On the other hand, public enterprises invest in their staff; first and foremost for the well-being of the latter, but also so that public enterprises can carry out their mission effectively. Thus, support is provided for workers that the challenge of digitalisation could put into difficulties. For example, SNCB develops a bi-digital training offer aimed at developing digital skills through the use of digital technology and content, and at the same time aiming at the human level through knowledge and self-esteem, communication, self-assertion, collaboration and communication with clients. Moreover, for this year alone, 2022, but this will also be the case in the coming years, given the demographic pyramid of SNCB and Infrabel, SNCB and Infrabel recruit more than 2,000 new collaborators. In particular, the two companies are looking for technical profiles such as maintenance agents, electro-mechanical technicians, welders, engineers to whom they offer very interesting wage conditions, great job stability, opportunities for training and significant career development. I have quoted all these occupations in the masculine, but all this also applies to women; we are looking for new talents. If you know people, the railway companies will continue to engage in the future. You have not mentioned this in your question, and I would like to stress this point. The employment and working conditions of male and female railway workers are very important in order to continue to attract new talent. These are interesting, diverse career opportunities, serving the public and mobility, with opportunities for training, career development, wage development, and guaranteed wages. We have great ambitions for rail and the achievement of these ambitions will not be achieved without the staff, let alone against it. To meet these challenges, we need, more than ever, male and female railway workers. I know that we can count on them to live up to the challenges they have already demonstrated in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u58	Minister, thank you for the many clarifications you have made. Of course, I am not the trainer of the outstanding Forem and there is a need to raise awareness of the importance of in-service training and of the employment prospects that are very important for the development of our Region and to ensure the future of the rail industry. You have talked about this, but I would also like to draw attention to the need to ensure the well-being of SNCB workers and to take account of the workload that may be associated with the elimination of these jobs and their evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u59	Minister, a few weeks ago, we had the opportunity, within the framework of this Mobility Committee, to visit Infrabel's infrastructure and learn more about the company's ambitions and the major challenges that will determine its operation for the years to come. Of course, we have addressed the issue of security. Safety is undoubtedly one of the themes on which the rail infrastructure manager concentrates most of his energy, whether in the vicinity of track or level crossings. And, quite rightly, because we know how quickly an accident happened. When it arrives near a railway, it is very often fatal. But these facts are not always accidents. Every year, dozens of people put or try to put an end to their lives on the rails. These are tragic events for the victims and their families, of course, but also for the people involved in one way or another, attending this tragedy. I am thinking in particular of the train driver who is forced to attend this horrible scene without being able to do anything to avoid it, only very rarely succeeding in braking in time. It is a traumatic episode that will certainly remain engraved in his memory. Minister, is there psychological help for train drivers attending such a tragedy? What other aid is available to support them in these cases? Have any train drivers ended their careers after a suicide? Do you have any figures to share with us about this? Are train drivers trained for this kind of situation? If so, how? Finally, what measures are in place to prevent these terrible situations from happening again? Have they demonstrated their effectiveness - I am thinking in particular of anti-suicide cameras?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u60	Mrs Zanchetta, thank you for asking me this essential and obviously sensitive question. Confrontation with potentially traumatic accidents, such as roadside suicide, can leave deep traces in anyone, especially SNCB rolling personnel. To provide each victim with as adequate a reception as possible, SNCB provides its staff with a structured reception network. At first instance, staff involved in such accidents are welcomed by close colleagues. Train drivers are supported by psychosocial assistants called API (Post-Incident Assistant). The latter intervene as quickly as possible in order to offer a first reception, the aim of which is to enable the victim to report the facts, but also to measure the impact of the accident and to inform him or her of the possibilities of reception downstream. In this first phase, the intervention of a close colleague is crucial, as he knows the difficulties at work better than anyone else. APIs are volunteers from the coaching staff, who receive two-day basic training organized by SNCB's Safetyand Well-Being Directorate. During this training, a psychologist explains to them the basic principles of psychotraumatology (phase, reaction and needs of the victim), as well as the practical aspects of good psychological assistance. In addition, an expert in the field offers them an introduction to all practical aspects. This management of SNCB provides regular support to APIs that have been trained through intervision sessions, in order to exchange experiences gained during the various interventions. During these sessions, a reminder of the practical and psychological part is also provided. In the second instance, the victim who witnessed a person's accident will talk to his or her immediate manager. In the third instance, it may be accompanied by external aid. After the initial reception by the IPA and the interview with the direct supervisor, the employee concerned may meet with the intervention psychologist of the external partner the day after the incident. This interview can be requested by telephone 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. The purpose of these interviews is to provide the person concerned with a confidential framework to help him/her free from this significant psychological trauma. Since 2020, as part of the Care & Preparation program, an intervention psychologist for both linguistic roles has been systematically contactable on weekdays on the day following the incident. It is available for a face-to-face interview in Brussels. At the request of the Head of Service, this interview can also be arranged remotely. The Corporate Well-Being platform available on the SNCB intranet also provides people facing such an accident with an overview of available internal and external resources. They can select the most appropriate tools for them - training, legal information, additional support channels, etc. One of the additional support channels is the support by a psychologist of SNCB's external partner network. The purpose of the platform is to assist the employee concerned in managing both proactively and retroactively the psychological risks to which he or she is exposed. The platform also has an "expertise" component for psychosocial workers. APIs can find all the information and documentation that can strengthen and support them in their difficult role. They also have the possibility of an interview with the intervention psychologist if they wish to release the pressure after an intervention or evaluate their intervention together. If the person facing a person's accident is unable to return to service, a few days of incapacity for work or suitable work are possible. When work is resumed, support may also be provided during the course of benefits. Through this front-line, second-line and third-line hosting structure, SNCB ensures that every person facing a person's accident receives the welcome they need to manage this potentially traumatic accident at the psychological level. The SNCB does not have figures on the number of train drivers who left SNCB as a result of a person's accident. In addition, during the initial phase of training in the profession of driver, a "quality and attitude day" of the train driver is given to candidates. On this occasion, traumatic events such as the clash of people are addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer and the details you have given about the procedure. It can be seen that the driver is not left alone. When you talk about suicide, you think about the family of the victims, but it remains a traumatic event for the driver. It would appear that some of the people concerned would not have returned to work. It would be interesting to know the numbers so that we can act, if we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u62	Minister, during the covid-19 crisis, SNCB adapted its subscription offer and now offers half-time subscriptions for people travelling by train two to three times a week on the same journey. If this subscription is a great idea, it seems to set aside people who work mostly at home and/or who only need to take the train once a week for the same trip. No subscription exists to meet the needs of these people. The problem is that the majority of companies only reimburse train tickets and do not take single-use train tickets into account. For example, many people are injured because their home-to-work journey by train is not reimbursed a day each week. Minister, is it possible to create a special subscription for those who make the same train journey only once each week?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u63	Mrs Zanchetta, as demonstrated by the nascent success of the mobility budget, citizens expect more flexibility in their mobility. I think this will be decisive in the mobility policies of the future. For this reason, we have asked SNCB to develop formulas that better respond to new working and mobility habits, including teleworking. This is why SNCB will be proposing in the coming months a flexible subscription for home-to-work travel. This formula is currently being tested and will meet the needs of commuters who travel two to three times a week on average. In addition, SNCB is currently carrying out a study to determine the evolution of the frequencies of home-to-work travel, the modes of travel and the type of transport chosen according to the different passenger profiles, in order to adjust its offer. On the basis of the results of this study, we could consider changing SNCB's subscription offer to meet the needs of as many people as possible. For the rest, the question of reimbursement of home-to-work travel outside the existing and advantageous arrangements already proposed by SNCB is to be resolved in the context of social consultation. It does not seem to me normal for a company to refuse to pay for a trip because it would take place once a week and would be without a subscription.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will await the results of this study. Do you have any idea how long?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u65	Sorry, this information is not included in the response provided to me by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u66	Minister, there was a fatal accident in East Flanders on 14 June. I would like to express my sincere condolences. I don't think anyone should die at work. This was terrible for both the family and the bystanders. A team of a subcontractor of a subsidiary of Infrabel, TUC RAIL, consisting of four railway workers, was on site around midnight, after which two workers already descended to the railway bed to carry out preparatory work there, after which they were hit by a train. A 31-year-old worker died and another 21-year-old was seriously injured. Both have Bulgarian nationality and no known place of residence in Belgium. Three other workers who were present at the yard received psychological guidance and were interviewed by the labour inspector. How's the heavily wounded staff member? Do you know anything about his condition? In the meantime, is there any more clarity about the circumstances of the fatal work accident? How many major accidents have occurred on our railways during the last year? Do you have any figures on that? Are there any other fatalities? Infrabel and subsidiary TUC RAIL are increasingly working with subcontracting companies, which in turn also work with subcontractors. Was it the same in this accident? What firm were these Bulgarian men working for? Where did they stay and under what circumstances? How many hours did they perform a week? Isn't Infrabel responsible for anyone who works on and around the tracks? Do the victims understand Dutch or French? Did they understand their mission sufficiently? Were they able to follow the safety instructions independently? Did they receive safety training in advance? Do we have eyes on their pay terms? Will the victims' families receive compensation through Infrabel's insurance or another?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u67	The news of that tragic incident in Wetteren has shocked me as well. In the name of the government, therefore, I immediately expressed my condolences to the family of the deceased railway worker and the colleague who was injured. The injured railroad worker is still hospitalized. His condition is improving slowly, and he's gonna have to recover for some time. I wish him well. Both the investigating body and the social inspection have launched, as standard, an investigation into the specific circumstances of that fatal work accident. They'll shed light on the circumstances. In 2021 two fatal accidents occurred while working on the railway: at Ruisbroek and at Haversin in the province of Namur. The works in Wetteren were awarded to the Thv Siemens-Fabricom under the Public Procurement Act. Fabricom uses subcontractors for specific works, in this case the ARDA company. That undertaking is the employer of the workers concerned. We do not know where those persons were staying and in what circumstances or how much they performed per week. The investigations initiated by the competent investigation bodies will clarify the responsibilities. Safety is an absolute priority both for me and for Infrabel, which applies to all areas of its activity, including yards, without any distinction between the yards which are or are not subcontracted. There can never be a compromise on this. The number of active subcontractors varies, of course, according to the time of the year and the various works carried out on the railways. The infrastructure manager also points out that a real shortage of labour for certain profiles, in particular technical profiles, should be taken into account. In concrete terms, this means that the undertaking that has been awarded the contract is obliged to ensure that its subcontractors comply with the law. The infrastructure manager insists on this point, in particular through the specifications. Infrabel also has a code of conduct for suppliers and contractors. This code, which was developed in the context of Infrabel's CSR policy, emphasizes the expectations of Infrabel regarding contractors in terms of safety at work. Regular checks shall be carried out. A coordination on health and safety is being set up for all Infrabel shipyards. Risks shall be identified in advance. Clear instructions on staff safety are regularly given and the various health and safety plans are monitored. For your further questions on the country language instruction and training, please refer to the investigations that have been opened, which may provide more clarity. Finally, in the event of an accident at work under the legislation, the accident insurance provider of the victim's employer contributes primarily to certain damage, physical damage and loss of income. I do not have any more detailed information on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u68	Mr. Secretary, you give long answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u69	As a former trade union delegate, who was very concerned about the safety of workers, I think it is very important that we talk about it here. In the meantime, I've heard from people from the union that the two Bulgarians weren't even able to speak the language. It seems to me that it is rather problematic not even to be able to follow the safety rules during work. Can you look again at what exactly went wrong there? There is an evolution here. We have the same discussion about PostNL, with subcontractors working with subcontractors, until eventually even Infrabel has no idea who they are working with. That's a big problem. Mr Minister, I am concerned that this morning we heard from the Infrabel trade union that there is even more subcontracting due to the shortage of staff there. We must ensure that workers' safety is not compromised. Hopefully, the management agreement will cover the whole issue of subcontractors. Finally, may I make a suggestion? Be sure to see what's going on with these people's payments. I hope that they will not be paid Bulgarian wages, but a wage from here. If I understand correctly, it is about Bulgarians and Poland, who do not live here. I really hope that they will receive the necessary support, including financial support, in everything they have been through.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u70	You do have a long reply, Mrs. Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u71	It is therefore close to my heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u72	Minister, infrastructure manager Infrabel will build a second railway line between Balen and Neerpelt. Railway network manager Infrabel is going to build a second railway track between Balen and Neerpelt. The doubling has been on the agenda since 2009 and in 2016 the project has been included in the Flemish rail priorities. Infrabel has now notified a project-environmental impact report and hopes to be able to apply for a permit by the end of this year. Work is scheduled to start in January 2024 and the works are due to end at the end of 2026. The doubling of the line is in line with the strategy of getting more passengers on the train, especially in a region like the one we are talking about in a moment where the supply on the track is low and the supply of trains is too often, or almost always, unreliable. The project therefore offers a more efficient passenger service between North Limburg and Antwerp and Brussels, and an improved cross-border rail connection towards the Netherlands and Germany. Improving the infrastructure will only be of real use if more trains actually fill the additional capacity. Will there be additional trains on the Kempense lines? What prospects does this infrastructure improvement create in concrete terms? In addition, a lot of work is being done on the Kempense tracks, we talked about it last week. At present the railway bridge above the Albert Canal is being raised in Herentals. The works should be completed by the end of 2024. That is why the Kempense railways are threatening to go from yard to yard. What interference would the works have? How is it used to align these works, so that the Kempense traveller is not even more confronted with years of nuisance on the track?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u73	Train connections are as important to me as they are to you, Mrs Verhaert. SNCB and Infrabel let me know that between Mol a Neerpelt runs an IC train every hour from Antwerp Central. During peak hours, the normal offer also provides for an extension by train towards Brussels in the morning and a train from Brussels in the evening. From Monday to Sunday during the summer holidays there is also a train between Neerpelt and Blankenberge. SNCB draws up a transport plan every three years to assess different projects against the potential number of additional passengers, the deployment of equipment and staff and the public service contract directives. Since the duality will not be achieved until the end of 2026, a possible extension of the train supply between Mol and Neerpelt will not be investigated in the next transport plan. That will be possible with the subsequent transport plan. As regards the planning of the works in the Kempen, Infrabel maximises the use of the work windows at its disposal and makes every effort to minimise the impact of the yard on passengers. Major railway works, however, inevitably require certain adjustments. I can tell you that as much as possible during weeknights and weekends will be worked on line 19 in 2024. Where a complete line break is necessary, with the result that two tracks are not available, an alternative bus service should of course be organised for passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u74	Of course, Minister, I hope that there will be improvement. I'll talk a little more about the Kempen in a moment, again. In the long run, this is the case almost every week. I hope that you attach the same importance to the issue as I do, but the travellers and myself are beginning to doubt it. It is true that changes are needed when working, but then there must be maximum coordination and sometimes I doubt that this will happen. In any case, I am glad that the work is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u75	Mr President, Minister, the subject has been discussed on several occasions, but in the meantime little has changed in the field. Since Monday 23 May 2022, 10 train journeys were still abolished daily in the Kempen and North Limburg, despite the influx of graduate train escorts. It further raises fears as to whether these trains, such as peak hour trains to Brussels, will ever come back. Moreover, the reduced service provision is pushed through in a region where there are not very many trains. I can assure you that the travelers will notice. When you answered the oral questions at the previous committee meeting, you stated that you asked SNCB to have the trains that could be insured with the maximum capacity. You stated that service should not be cut short. Unfortunately, the reality is different on the ground. The trains that still run, too often have a reduced composition, e.g. 4 instead of 8 wagons, a Desiro instead of an M5, a Pork nose instead of an M6, and at best it is packed next to each other on the train. The great delays remain a pain, even more so than ever before. There are problems with considering and abolishing trains. Since a few weeks we regularly find that outside the Kempen trains are also abolished due to a lack of crew. How many trains have been abolished since the reduction of the service offer due to staff shortages? How many train escorts have flowed to the field of work in the meantime? In which region will these train escorts be deployed? When will the Kempen be able to enjoy a full transport offer again? Why does SNCB often fail to deploy the planned equipment on the Kempian line? What measures are being taken to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u76	Mr Minister, due to staff shortages, SNCB has decided to suspend the direct link between Brussels and Neerpelt indefinitely. It is a peak hour train that only runs once a day towards Brussels and once a day towards Neerpelt. Mr Minister, why does SNCB choose to suspend this connection? When will SNCB re-enable the connection? What is your view of SNCB's decision to suspend a train service in a region which is already poorly accessible in the field of public transport and which is therefore particularly affected by this suspension?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u77	Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already outlined the problem. We have debated this on several occasions. On several major railway lines in Flanders, between the major cities and Brussels, many services are temporarily suspended. In a hearing this morning with syndicated representatives, we heard that the numerator of suspended trains per month is at 400. You have often explained what initiatives SNCB is taking to recruit new staff, but when will that capacity be back up, Minister? By when do you and SNCB expect all undermanned railway lines to be fully operational again? Is there a plan to restart the full service? What is the plan? When will the trains return to normal, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed this issue at previous meetings of the Mobility Committee and in plenary. I share your frustration about trains that have been cancelled or delayed, especially because I want to change things by putting the traveller at the centre. The actions I have taken since the beginning of the legislature are in line with this. The recruitment and training of new staff takes some time. As far as train escorts are concerned, SNCB continues to suffer from increased absenteeism, above 10%. In the northeast district, this is still a few percentage points higher. Unfortunately, the expected decline during the holiday period is offset by the increase in corona contamination, which we also see in the rest of society. The first semester of 2022 was the absence of personnel causing 1,948 complete and 1,495 partial abolitions of trains. It should be noted that a staff member is usually employed on multiple trains per day during a working day, so that absence can lead to multiple abolitions. By way of comparison, on a working day, SNCB puts in about 3,800 trains. I would like to reiterate that 139 new train escorts started training and certification between 1 January and 30 April 2022. For the months of June, July and August an influx of 104 new train escorts is provided. This should ensure that the number of train escorts increases net by more than 3 %. Since our last exchange of views in committee, the new staff are being deployed as chief of staff. In the meantime, SNCB continues to recruit the remaining train escorts. This will gradually reduce the pressure on operational staff. I have had a discussion with the SNCB CEO about this recurring and persistent problem. As Minister for Mobility and Travellers, I have urged you to continue monitoring the possibilities for improvement in the short term. As you know, I asked SNCB to make the trains that can be insured run with maximum capacity. However, this option is not always possible, as trains are not always compatible with other trains' equipment and are not programmed and virtually recorded in real time during peak hours, with the maximum permitted composition on the network, due to these conditions. This does not leave the room to carry out reinforcements, certainly not without causing delays. With regard to the P-trains, I urged SNCB to put all P-trains back into service as soon as possible. SNCB is currently considering whether the P-trains you mentioned can be returned from September. This depends, of course, on the operational capacity available and therefore on the continuous training of rolling stock and on the recruitment of new operational profiles. In any case, I will continue to follow this issue closely, along with my cabinet, to ensure that trains can run at maximum speed. This is in the interest of the many rail passengers in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u79	Minister, we have talked about this a great many times. Again and again we hear commitments, but unfortunately I have to note that little of them comes into the house. We see little change or it is even worse. I only received an e-mail yesterday, just like Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Buyst, saying that there is talk of public transport services, but that this word should be omitted. It's another e-mail from an angry traveler. The Kempen, in case you don't know, is on the northeast border. The Binche-Turnhout connection in itself already has dramatic punctuality figures, but residents of the Kempen get into trouble, since to make up for delays, that train connection regularly takes Herentals as a terminal, so the rest of the Kempen is not served. Travellers have to pull out their plans, for example by switching to another train, but there too it often goes wrong. Again, the Kempense traveller very often has the feeling of standing in the cold. The frustrations are rising. If we carry on like this, I think that the train for the Kempen will soon be a very expensive taxi, as only two or three passengers will use it. It's really dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It would make people a little despondent, because you have urged them to continue monitoring and you insist on restarting the P-trains from September onwards. At the moment, it's only July. You're saying it's also very dependent on the influx. Apparently, that doesn't happen. You always speak with a great deal of passion about the trains, that's your stick horse. You are talking about greenhouse gas-free movements, about comfortable and punctual public transport and about a wide range of rail services so that people are encouraged to leave the car. However, my region, Limburg, is structurally underdeveloped in terms of rail investment in the past, which can be supported by objective figures. We are no longer impressed by your answer, because we are particularly affected by what is happening. The inhabitants of Limburg should, with apologies for the pun, laugh very green when they hear your passionate story about the train. You really need to do better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u81	Mr Raskin, allow me to add a small remark, because P-trains do not, by definition, run in the months of July and August.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I asked you whether there is a plan for the re-launch of normal services and whether there is a timetable for that. The answer is clear: no, there is no plan, no, there is no timing. Our only hope lies in the smooth recruitment of new staff from SNCB, which is far from obvious in a tight labour market. In the meantime, you yourself are asking for a larger supply, an increase in capacity that is not available, which is likely to exacerbate the problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u83	Minister, in Flanders, we are rolling out the Hoppin points with the transport regions, making the transition to more efficient, sustainable and more flexible public transport. Train, bus and tram remain fixed values, hopefully in the future with us. We better operate busy connections with faster and more frequent buses and trams from De Lijn. In other places, flex transport replaces the connection. Depending on the region, you can book a Hoppinbus, Hoppintaxi, Hoppinbike or Hoppinwagen in advance. At the heart of the switch is therefore combi mobility, combining different means of transport to get to your destination easily. In an ideal world you cycle to the station to take the train and then take a taxi to friends, or you drive by car to a park-and-ride and take the tram or bicycle to the city centre. Part mobility, with the sub-cars, is thus given a prominent place. Since the train is the backbone of our public mobility vision, which you undoubtedly support, the stations are an important link and it is a logical anchor point to create Hoppin points where bikes and semi-cars can be taken. Through the Kempen transport region, SNCB informed that it no longer allows sub-cars to be placed on their land on behalf of a municipality or the transport region. This position of SNCB would apply to the whole of Flanders. There is some concern about this. Do you share the view that this position of SNCB is difficult to reconcile with your own ambitions to further expand the train to the backbone of public transport? Why does SNCB refuse to create parking spaces for sub-cars on its land? What policy does SNCB have or about sub-cars? How can municipalities and transport regions contribute to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u84	Mrs Verhaert, SNCB is well aware of the evolution of the offer of public transport in Flanders. She is an advisory member of the fifteen Flemish transport regions and follows the process of establishing the short-term public transport plan and the longer-term regional mobility plan together with the Department of Mobility and Public Works and the various partners in the transport regions. In this context, it has already had several discussions with the Department of Mobility and Public Works, on the one hand, and with the various transport regions, on the other, on the establishment of a number of hoppin points at the SNCB stations and, in particular, on the sub-systems for customised vehicles and bicycles. You asked about the possibility of placing sub-cars in the station environment. Both I and SNCB are in favour of so-called combi mobility. As you know, Cambio's sub-cars are already in the stations. SNCB is also a shareholder of Optimobil Belgium. SNCB also provides for the possibility of installing other sub-cars, but under certain clear conditions which were clearly communicated to the Department of Mobility and Public Works and to the various partners in the transport regions. SNCB also welcomes all initiatives that contribute to the further development of public transport hubs. This is fully in line with the recently approved Railways 2040, with the track as the backbone of our mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Have I understood correctly that we are still allowed to do so? We are getting other reports about this in our transport region. So it is true that there is still room for part-cars in SNCB's car parks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u86	Mrs Verhaert, I will repeat two sentences for you in that regard. As you know, Cambio's sub-cars are already present at the stations and SNCB is a shareholder of Optimobil Belgium. SNCB also provides for the possibility to place other sub-cars, subject to certain clear conditions which were clearly communicated to MOW. It will therefore be possible under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u87	Mr President, that is contrary to the reports we are receiving from the transport region. So I'm sure I'll take your answer with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u88	That was interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u89	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a few weeks ago, Brussels Airport presented its new strategy shift 2027, an ambitious plan in which the airport firmly draws the map of a sustainable future. One of the five main pillars of this modal shift is the dismantling of short-haul flights. The aviation sector is aware that its future is not short-haul flights. The ambitious plan shows that it considers sustainability essential. In order to reduce short-haul flights, there must be a full alternative. The train plays an important role. However, it remains deafeningly silent about a high-speed link connecting Brussels Airport with the surrounding airports. However, the coalition agreement has the clear ambition to achieve it. Competitive airports such as Frankfurt, Paris Charles de Gaulle, and Amsterdam Schiphol have high-speed connections between them. That is a big difference for the traveller and therefore for the environment. It's not the first time I've asked you a question about that HST connection. On 22 June last year, you replied to my question that the FPS Mobility and Transport carried out a study investigating the potential of replacing short-haul flights with international train connections. In this context, the international connection to Brussels Airport would be analysed Nationally. The results would be published in September last year. On 7 March this year, I asked you a written question and you said that the study had been completed, but that the results would not be published until after its analysis. It's July 2022 now. What are the results of that conducted and completed study, specifically regarding a possible HST connection to Brussels Airport? Is it still your ambition to establish a HST connection with the airport, so that short-haul flights can finally be phased out and replaced by direct HST connections between airports?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u90	Mr Vandenput, thank you for your question on the possibilities of a modal shift to more environmentally friendly means of transport such as the train. Support for modal shift has been a priority for me since the beginning of my mandate. The aim of the study commissioned by the FPS Mobility was to analyse the possibilities of replacing certain short-haul flights to and from Belgian airports with international trains. In the various scenarios studied in the medium term up to 2030, no direct connection to Brussels Airport via high-speed trains was chosen. Indeed, the study shows that the topology of the railway network serving Brussels airport is not suitable for high-speed operation. The need for a diversion would make rail between agglomerations less attractive and the loss of passengers would be greater than the profit resulting from the connection to the airport and the flight offer. The study shows that in the long term the route of a new railway line 36, which directly and in a straight line calls at the airport, such as Frankfurt or Schiphol, with a specially equipped station at the airport, would provide an efficient high-speed train service to Germany. The trains from France could be extended without being part of the national transport plan, which could satisfy the existing station.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u91	Minister, I am pleased that an analysis has been made of that report. I am a little disappointed at the conclusion in the report that the current infrastructure is insufficient to allow a high-speed train to pass. There was investment in the Diabolo project. That's a tunnel to get to the airport right now. It can't be hard to get a HRT to drive through there. I have been told that the route is twelve minutes outside the straight line, that is six minutes to go and six minutes back. It is proposed to establish a new connection with the airport, which will then connect with Frankfurt and Charles de Gaulle. But I know the type of infrastructure around the airport very well and there is no new train connection there. The Brussels ring must then be under or over. To drive to Frankfurt, one has to go through Leuven. A new link cannot be technically and in terms of spatial planning. Can we get a copy of the study? If that is a document of the FPS Mobility, it is public and we can see that. I'll get it in writing. Furthermore, I believe that the existing infrastructure for a HRT should be used. I have to note that the current connection between Brussels Airport and Amsterdam takes place with an intercity train, whereas the SNCB and the Dutch Railways today even bake in order to abolish it. For example, we will completely isolate Brussels Airport and we will not achieve the climate targets, i.e. reducing short-distance flights and replacing them with train connections. The environment and sustainability will not be considered at all. That's a little disappointing. I would ask you to put your shoulders on that and to ensure a high-speed link with the existing infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u92	Colleagues, without security, no freedom, as I have often stressed. Every act of aggression, both verbally and physically, is one too many, especially when it comes to government staff. Safe travel is an essential chapter in both the Railways 2040 and in the design of public service contracts with SNCB. On 23 June, SNCB consulted the mayor and the Chief Constable of Mechelen in connection with the abolition of a train to Brussels. The train manager was confronted with the aggression of passengers on the train who stopped at the station Mechelen-Nekkersron. A report was drawn up and an investigation has to show exactly what happened that night. The city of Mechelen and the police have already taken a number of measures since 23 June, including increased supervision in the provincial domain De Nekker and around the stations Mechelen and Mechelen-Nekkerron. SNCB will also take action by analogy with the incidents that occurred on the trains towards Ghent with people on their way to or from the recreation area of Blaarmeersen. The deployment of Securail agents is not unlimited. That is why SNCB has asked its partners in the police forces to provide reinforcement. SNCB has made arrangements with the police services to exchange information on the movements of young people to and from Mechelen and Mechelen-Nekkerron. Mr Roggeman, on beautiful summer days, SNCB transports tens of thousands of passengers a day to the coast in all comfort and safety. SNCB wants to convince as many people as possible during this summer holiday to opt for the train even during their free time. That is why the train supply will be strengthened over the next two months. SNCB devotes its resources to passenger flows. When the beautiful weather lures many passengers by train to the coast, SNCB will adapt its offer and resources accordingly. With regard to the additional deployment of Securail, SNCB uses Securail's teams dynamically throughout the year. It takes into account, for example, the weather, the organisation of a particular event or school holidays and holidays. At present, attention is being paid to rail traffic to the Belgian coast, but also to other tourist destinations such as recreational parks. An effort is further requested from all staff who are in contact with the public. SNCB also calls on job students to strengthen the reception and guidance of passengers. On a yearly basis, SNCB holds numerous preparatory meetings with the police and local authorities to ensure proper coordination of operations. In the summer, for example, some thirty job students will be employed in the Bruges work station, of which the stations on the coast are part. From there, they can provide assistance on the ground where necessary. Based on the needs, they are distributed across various stations. SNCB's mission is to transport passengers with a valid ticket and to ensure the safety of passengers within the limits of its competence. This means that the staff will call the police if there are reports of disturbance of law and order requiring police action. In the aftermath of the incident on the trains towards Ghent and the buses towards the Blaarmeersen, for example, there was a very thorough discussion between the mayor, the police and emergency services and the safety services of SNCB and De Lijn. SNCB also agreed with the police on the exchange of information. As far as the deployment of the police forces is concerned, you should question my colleague from the Interior. SNCB wishes to support the work of the Public Prosecutor in the prosecution of offences committed to the detriment of its staff. For the specific figures for this year, please refer to my colleague, Minister Annelies Verlinden.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I had already noted a few things in advance that would be in your answer, such as your indignation or putting security first, because I always hear these things. I was particularly looking forward to hearing the new elements in your answers. It's only logical that there should be consultation. Asking the police for backup is also a solid element. However, this reinforcement is usually limited in scope. I heard something new today, because the problem will be solved with job students. I look forward to it going smoothly from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Job students will only be able to play a small role, I think. In my view, staffing will be able to make an important contribution to ensuring adequate supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the summer we need to increase supply not only in terms of demand, but also in terms of security instruments, in fact disproportionate if we are to look at the reality of recent months. With flexible work deployment and job students alone, I'm afraid we won't get there. You refer us to Minister Verlinden as regards the additional labour and sanctioning policies of SNCB. I'll talk to her about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u96	Mr Roggeman, as you point out in your question, the installation of Wi-Fi in trains was not chosen because this would entail very high implementation costs. There are, of course, other measures to improve connectivity, which will benefit travellers. SNCB therefore wants to focus on improving the reception of the mobile signal inside the train. This can be achieved by using special glazing. It concerns the so-called decorating technique, laser cutting of part of the metal layer of the glazing of the rolling stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u97	SNCB wants to use that specific glazing on a part of its IC equipment, the M7 vehicles. The use of that glazing is planned for delivery from the end of 2022. For the M6 vehicles, the use of the glazing is planned for the major overhaul of the equipment from the end of 2022. I would also like to remind you that this year BIPT published for the first time research figures on the coverage and quality figures of mobile networks on the most widely used lines. With an average train connection rate of 98.2 % and an average download rate of 55Mbps, performance results are obtained according to the analysis of the BIPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u98	Good morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I warmly thank Mr Van den Bergh, who has replaced me, even if he is not in the room at the moment. It also enabled me to take on the Social Affairs Committee in which I am also a member. Sometimes it's complicated. We don't know how to be on both sides at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u99	Mr President, Minister, I know the BIPT cover cards. According to that accessibility satlas there is a coverage of 98.2 %. This is, of course, the cumulative result of all telecom providers: VOO, Orange, Proximus and so on. No one combines all those subscriptions on his plane. In reality, therefore, this percentage is much lower for the user. In times of increased teleworking, demand for strong digital accessibility has only increased, including on the train. There are even users who are willing to pay for it, which is still better than nothing. You referred to initiatives for a better reception. We have to get that through other glazing, via the M7 trains. That is commendable in itself, but it is the only way we will not make it if the glazing on the trains and the ordering of new devices are the only instruments. We all know that the running time of a train is about 50 years. This means that we have better coverage for our train users by about 2070. Minister, I am afraid this will not be enough. I therefore call on you to take further initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u100	I would like to explain my question because it is too important. Each time we say here that there must be enough resources and finances to drive our trains. In order to cope with the impact of the corona crisis, the European Commission set up a Corona Recovery Fund of EUR 750 billion in the summer of 2020. The Restoration and Resilience Facility, or the RRF, is the main portfolio in that. It includes EUR 337 billion in grants and a further EUR 360 billion in low-cost loans. This money is distributed among the EU countries, with no specific keys. For Belgium, just over EUR 5.9 billion of grants were planned. This amounts to about 1.24% of gross domestic product. Those billions were then divided between the different governments in our country. Flanders was allocated EUR 2.25 billion, the Walloon Region EUR 1.48 billion, the federal government EUR 1.25 billion, the French Community EUR 495 million, the Brussels-Capital Region EUR 395 million, and the German-speaking Community EUR 50 million. It now appears that Belgium will receive EUR 1.4 billion less than foreseen. That is almost one fifth less, Minister. I come to my questions to you. The Belgian track would be one of the major winners of the EU Restoration Fund revenue. What will be the consequences of this recovery cut? How much will ultimately be invested effectively in rail transport from the EU Restoration Fund? Will this affect rail workers and passengers? Do you now need to renegotiate investment, or will the Vivaldi government give up 25% of the funds promised? Will concrete train projects be postponed or cancelled? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u101	You're too pessimistic, Mrs. Vindevoghel. The financing already approved for Infrabel and SNCB under the Federal Recovery and Investment Plan is not modified as a result of the reduction in funding from the European Relance Plan. The availability of European funding is one of the elements to be taken into account in the overall financing of the funds needed for the development of the railway sector. However, the impact of this funding is relatively limited and has no significant impact on the approved Railway Vision 2040. Mr Toventors, contrary to what you claim, the Treasury Inspectorate has delivered a favourable opinion on the document 'Rail vision 2040'. The Finance Inspectorate has also agreed to the creation of a clear policy framework. The Railways 2040 is a first step, which, thanks to the policy framework and the concrete objectives, now makes it possible to precisely define the financing needs. The ongoing discussions on SNCB's public service contract and Infrabel's performance contract should give concrete expression to the objectives of the Railways 2040 and at the same time calculate the necessary resources. As you know, it is the ambition of the entire government to invest in the railways and thus make it the backbone of our mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u102	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear from you that there will be no impact on the approved Railways 2040. On the other hand, I also hear you saying that the financing needs still have to be determined. In any case, EUR 1.4 billion is already available. So I'm waiting to see how the story will go on financially.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u103	Minister, it is EUR 1.4 billion less. That's not nothing. We continue to discuss the fact that there are too few resources, that trains do not run and that there are not enough staff. You keep dreaming and you don't see reality. The reality is that there is now a big problem with SNCB and with Infrabel. That's what we hear. The management agreement is still not in place. What I see is not the modal shift you always talk about. Now this modal shift will get another EUR 1.4 billion less. I don't know how you'll do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u104	Where have you heard or read that EUR 1.4 billion will be less available to SNCB and Infrabel? This applies to the whole of Belgium and is compensated by the federal government for the railway and other projects of the relay plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u105	Minister, from the city council of Ronse came a question about the electrification of the railway linking Ronse to Ghent. In the media you responded positively to the question, but you did transfer the hot potato to SNCB. I quote: "The track must become the backbone of our mobility and we therefore support this motion. The question has therefore been passed on to SNCB." That's a curious answer. SNCB is indeed responsible for the roll-out of this initiative, but it must, of course, work within the budget you are making available. In the case of SNCB the reaction was that electrification of the railway line is not for immediate use. Only in 2034 will SNCB be able to put its diesel engines out of service. That, too, is curious. In a written question, I had already asked you about the timing. You then referred to the year 2030, four years earlier. At a meeting of the Mobility Committee in January 2022, you were also unable to give a positive opinion on the rapid electrification of the Ronse-Gent-Eeklo railway line. Mr President, how do you explain the adjustment of the deadline for the decommissioning of SNCB's diesel locomotives? Will it be 2030 or 2034? Is there a delay? How do you explain that? Will the electrification of the Ronse-Gent railway line be planned at all? If you support the Ronse City Council's question, why don't you make a budget? What electrification projects are planned in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u106	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u107	We had discussed the subject very often in our exchanges of views, but it is not a problem to do it again. Together with SNCB and Infrabel I have picked up the various pleas for electrification of the railway line between Ronse and Ghent. I would like to stress once again that, in general terms, the train is already the most environmentally friendly way of travelling. This is even more true in Belgium, because our passenger network is one of the most electrified in Europe with more than 97% of electrified lines. SNCB still deploys 94 MW41 diesel engines built by Alstom between 2000 and 2002. They comply with the European standards in force at that time and may still be used. According to the current planning, SNCB will theoretically decommission those diesel engines by 2034 at the latest. Together with SNCB and Infrabel, I also look at the various options to reduce the remaining share of diesel traction as quickly as possible. At the beginning of 2022, a joint working group was set up to examine the future operating possibilities on the non-electricised railway lines in Belgium. The aim of the working group is to fully identify the technical aspects as well as the investments and operational costs of partial electrification. In addition, alternative options, such as the use of hybrid equipment, which can run on both electrified tracks and on a track without overhead lines, such as battery or hydrogen trains, are also under consideration. My cabinet follows the work closely and gives the necessary impetus to come up with the best solution. The government has also decided to provide EUR 2 million for the financing of a hydrogen locomotives pilot project. The technology is not yet fully mature, but the Belgian industry has solid expertise in the field and the prospects are particularly promising for the future of greener mobility. Mrs Vindevoghel, since the bridge at the Nieuwebrugstraat was already completely closed to all traffic due to the sewage works commissioned by the city of Ronse and the two weekends with an interruption of train traffic, continuing traffic in the Elzeelsesteenweg on the Nieuwebrugstraat was impossible. The works had to cause as little nuisance as possible to passenger traffic and train traffic and were therefore carried out in as short a period as possible, in particular two consecutive weekends, in a calm period at the beginning of the summer holidays. Infrabel has searched for two moments of total line break that followed each other and which were as beneficial to passengers as possible. The city of Ronse was also of the opinion that the nuisance took as long as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The train may be on average the most environmentally friendly mode of transport, but whoever lives next to a diesel line is greasy with it; it does suffer from it. Diesel trains are not good for the environment. We can agree on that. You say you want to extinguish diesel traction as soon as possible. At the same time, I note that the deadline for the extinction of diesel traction has been postponed by four years in a few months. In the beginning of the legislature, the deadline was 2030. Today is 2034. So we didn't notice much of that as soon as possible. On the contrary, it is moving in the wrong direction. You didn't explain it. It'll still be in theory in 2034. In any case, it will not be for the next ten years, and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u109	It's all a little slow. First you promised dedieselation by 2030, now it's 2034. You also did not answer the question of whether the new management agreement provides for the dedieselisation of our tracks. Are there any additional means of accelerating that process and ensuring that the diesels disappear and the trains are electrified? So the matter has not yet been resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u110	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 55029334C has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u111	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u112	The sustainable opening of ports is a spearhead of the entire federal government. In this sense, we signed a declaration of intent for the Rail Ghent Terneuzen project at the end of February this year. The specifications for the feasibility study on line 204 are in preparation. It has shifted somewhat over time in order to carry out preliminary and potential analyses. The billing for the potential analysis in Ghent is ongoing. In addition, in-depth investigations are carried out into possible routes in collaboration with stakeholders. The launch of the feasibility study itself is scheduled for November this year. For the cross-border project Rail Ghent Terneuzen, ProRail and Infrabel are currently working on the development of a joint project organisation. North Sea Port remains closely involved and plays a coordinating role. A cooperation agreement will be drawn up for this purpose. A Working Party on Legal Procedures has also been set up. It looks at the procedural process. A first step in this is the composition of a planning team. The chip will be finalized and delivered in the near future. In the meantime, a clear project structure has been established with the various stakeholders, including the Flemish Region as an involved partner. In the context of the potential analysis, the Flemish Region makes the transfers used as input to the feasibility study. A cooperation agreement will initially be drawn up between Infrabel, ProRail and North Sea Port. A draft was drawn up before that. It's being discussed now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u113	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u114	Mr Minister, until recently there was a land for sale on the SNCB website in the city of Deinze. This in itself is nothing special and it is good that SNCB sells the land that it does not use, if it does not run on that land a segment of the F7 bike highway between Kortrijk and Ghent. It is remarkable that SNCB sells land for public use. Moreover, this is also very harsh with my resolution which was adopted in plenary two years ago, pointing out to SNCB its responsibility for the construction of cycle motorways in general and its sympathetic cooperation in particular. How is it possible that there is a land on which a bike highway is built? Were the municipality and the province informed about this or should they be informed about it via the press or the sales website? Is SNCB continuing this procedure and is that land now being sold effectively? Do you not think that additional initiative is needed to encourage SNCB to take greater account of the local impact of its real estate policy, including on the implementation of that Resolution 944?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u115	You know I'm a bike lover, Mr Roggeman. I am therefore taking all possible measures to encourage the use of the bicycle. I have often referred in this committee to BE Cyclist, the first federal plan to promote the bicycle, which was approved by the government on my proposal almost a year ago. Facilitating the construction of cycle motorways is one of the actions in the plan. Both myself and SNCB and Infrabel attach great importance to intermodal solutions, and both railway companies are happy to cooperate, together with other governments. The word "together" is important in this. It appears that the cycle highway which was built on a basis of SNCB without any knowledge and without authorisation of SNCB. The reason for the sale of these land is the regularisation of the existing situation. SNCB informs me that prior contact was made with the city of Deinze and the province of East Flanders. Several meetings were held with them on this subject. On the basis of the possible tender, SNCB will decide on the allocation. SNCB is bound to respect the general principles of equality, non-discrimination and transparency of our legal framework, namely the 1991 law. This means that any transfer of rights in rem is preceded by adequate publicity and organised in the context of a call for competition open to all interested parties. SNCB is also obliged to sell at market prices, in accordance with European competition law and in particular with the State aid rules. The municipalities are also informed of SNCB's intentions in the regular consultations or the requests for urban information required for the operation. To conclude, I believe that it is essential for the public railway companies to fulfil their full role of public service. This also applies in the contacts they have with other boards, whether local or not. In addition to the above mentioned transparency, a consistent attitude is also important. It is therefore not for nothing that I have renamed the management contract of SNCB into a public service contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u116	Mr Minister, it is a very bizarre story that a bicycle path would have been built, along a railway, in the areas of SNCB, without consultation with them. Even more striking is the fact that SNCB still has to decide on the sale. If I understand correctly, there is still a possibility that things will be sold to a private buyer, with bike highway and everything on and off. That's weird. Now, it's not the first time that weird things happen with SNCB and its cooperation on bike highways. In other regions too, there have already been incidents about real estate policy related to bicycle motorways. The same applies to the sale of real estate, in which municipalities have an interest. You refer to the legal framework. I believe that we will indeed have to look closely at the legal rules and consider whether it is not appropriate to introduce a local pre-purchase right for cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u117	Mr Minister, since 2020, some of the 45 new M7 trains ordered by SNCB in 2015 have been put into service on the Ostend-Eupen line. Then there would be a gradual roll-out on other lines. In December 2020, SNCB also placed an additional order of 130 autonomously accessible carriages and 68 with steering station. At present, trains of type M4 run on one of the busiest train connections in the country, Antwerp-Brussels-Charleroi. The train usually has insufficient seats from the station of Antwerp-Berchem. In addition, this train has no space for the stable of bicycles and there is no air conditioning. What is the reason for the commissioning of this older generation M4 on this line during the peak moments where there were always trains M6 at these times before? On which lines are these train sets deployed now? From 2023 a number of train sets would be taken out of rotation as a result of the arrival of the M7. Is it also about trains serving the Antwerp-Brussels-Charleroi line? What is the perspective for the line Antwerp-Charleroi on the commissioning of the M7 trains? What further timing is envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u118	Thank you, Mr Segers, for your questions on the introduction of more modern trains. In general, the M6 trains are always used during peak hours. Compared to 2021, the number of M6 trains on the lines IC Charleroi-Essen and IC Charleroi-Antwerp-Airball has not changed. Some of these connections were previously operated with M4 sets. However, due to the maintenance of the rolling stock, some trains previously operated in M6 may now be operated in M4 and vice versa. For several weeks, SNCB has also established high capacity utilisation rates on some M4 trains, with a significant increase in the number of customers. To compensate for the lack of seats on these trains, the timetable of the equipment will be adjusted from the beginning of the school year to lead the M6 to the busiest trains. SNCB has provided me with information on the delivery of the M7 devices. On 1 May 2022 142 AIFM vehicles, 31 BDx steering stations without traction and 37 BMx steering stations with traction should be delivered. At the beginning of May 2022, 108 AIFM vehicles, 12 BDx steering stations and 13 BMx steering stations were effectively delivered. They are used for the commercial service and for the training of SNCB supervisors and drivers for the new M7 trains. SNCB expects to have 175 AIFM vehicles, 27 BDx vehicles and 41 BMx vehicles by the end of 2022 on the basis of the current cadence of deliveries. This will amount to a delay of about 50 to 60 carriages. Currently there are no concrete plans to equip the services of IC Charleroi-Essen and IC Charleroi-Antwerp Airball with M7 wagons in the coming years. SNCB will look into what is possible, Mr Segers. With the delivery of the M7s, however, the old equipment, mainly carriages M4 and T21 and T27 locomotives, is gradually replaced. The M4s will be fully decommissioned as planned in 2025. So it's work in progress, as you can see.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u119	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister. We are indeed counting on the comfort of the train traveller on this line to increase as soon as possible and that you will do everything you can. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u120	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u121	Minister, you have called on Minister Verlinden and the police to take priority action in the fight against bicycle thefts. With this you put the ball in their camp, but sensitive locations for bicycle thefts are of course the train stations and for that the policy responsibility lies with you. I have already made a number of proposals on this in the past, which you rejected. I would like to refer some of them back to you. I'll start with an informative question. How many sites for bicycle parking under the management of SNCB now have camera security? I'd like to get an overview of that. On which sites will camera surveillance be provided in the short term? What additional actions will SNCB and yourself take in addition to the existing cycling strategy to protect and prevent bicycle thefts? Will bicycle safes be placed in the bicycle parkings to give travellers the chance to store their bike safely or will you remain at your previous rejection? How is the cooperation between SNCB and local police areas on the registration, follow-up and prevention of bicycle theft? What questions does SNCB have with regard to police forces regarding cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u122	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, bicycle theft is an issue that concerns me as much as you do. The fight against bicycle thefts is one of my priorities in the context of BE Cyclist, the federal plan to promote the bicycle. Together with my colleagues, the Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs, I am studying the possibility of creating a central bicycle register. The aim is to set up an electronic system for the whole country, inspired by other existing systems, such as mybike.brussels, with a central database managed by the federal level. This also means that the fight against bicycle theft is included in the new version of the framework paper on integrated safety or that measures are taken against the sale of stolen bicycles. With regard to bicycle parking, in 2020, 73 sites managed by SNCB were equipped with camera surveillance, 53 in Flanders, 6 in Brussels and 14 in Wallonia. SNCB plans to employ 10 additional bicycle storage facilities with access control and camera surveillance in the short term, 7 in Flanders and 3 in Wallonia. A risk assessment is made for each new bicycle storage facility. Depending on this analysis, it is considered whether camera equipment is appropriate or not. Every bicycle storage with access control is equipped with camera surveillance. For bicycle storage without access control, the degree of equipment depends on the risk analysis. Together with SNCB we work on different slopes to improve safety, for example through mandatory identification of users. Just think of a car in a car park that's identified by his license plate. In addition, SNCB actively participates in working groups and consultation platforms organised at local level by a city or the police in the framework of bicycle thefts. SNCB advises cities and police on questions about safety in the bicycle sheds, both from a technopreventive and infrastructureal point of view, and shares plans of the bicycle sheds and the available cameras with the police in order to be able to investigate the images as accurately as possible in the event of theft. After all, only through cooperation will we succeed in combating the scourge of bicycle thefts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u123	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The world is changing. Flanders invested hugely in cycling highways in recent years, as we have just discussed. People are increasingly investing in electric bicycles and speed pedals, which are very expensive devices, because the purchase often costs a few thousands of euros. Honestly, nowadays such bicycles cannot be parked in many stations without a loss of peace of mind. All these investments in modal shift can only render when train users have the assurance that their expensive bike will not be stolen at the station. That is what we must do. I hear ten stations will be equipped with camera surveillance in the short term. On my proposal to install bike safes, you have not entered again. All right, every station that gets security, there's a lake. Of the total of more than 500 stations, stops and stops in the country, however, it is only a drop on a hot plate. I therefore encourage you to go further in this respect. You will be provided with large budgets. As a big supporter of the bike, you can't be happy that security is limited to ten extra stations. That should be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u124	Mr van den Bergh, according to Article 1, 2 of the Eucaris Convention, the exchange of information must be carried out either on the basis of European Union legislation or through a bilateral or multilateral agreement. As far as European Union legislation is concerned, the offences are not listed under the exhaustively listed offences in the EU2015/413 cross-border directive to facilitate cross-border exchange of information on road safety-related offences. There are bilateral agreements with France and the Netherlands. France considers that the exchange of data on low emission zones does not fall within the scope of this bilateral agreement. My administration has already contacted the French administration on several occasions, which wants to suspend the exchange of information. Following this, France was informed that this suspension could not continue, given that the disputes concerning the interpretation and application of the bilateral agreement should be settled by diplomatic means between the relevant Foreign Ministers, in accordance with Article 4 of the bilateral agreement with France. From now on, the exchange will be followed, pending an official letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. My administration has already on several occasions called on the European Commission to amend the scope of the aforementioned Crossborder Directive in order to complete the list of infringements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic850x.u125	Minister, your answer clearly shows that you recognise the problem and that solutions are being sought. I can only support you in that.
