ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u1	Minister, there are eleven questions. The subject was discussed last week in plenary, but apparently more answers and explanations are expected. I also saw that last weekend the Muco Society* started a campaign called Sick of waiting, so sick of waiting for a cure. We're all getting e-mails about it in our mailboxes, I've noticed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u2	Mr President, my first question, which dates from 23 June 2022, was not included in the plenary debate last Thursday, but I will deal with it again. Last week, Minister, you replied that you have very little to say about the ongoing negotiation procedure. But after the debate, many respected lung doctors and university hospitals in our country have sent you and Vertex an open letter in which they repeat the benefits of Kaftrio and indicate that the extension of the procedure by, for example, nine months may mean that some patients will suffer irreparable lung damage or have to undergo lung transplantation, which would not be necessary if they were to receive Kaftrio, which will then be reimbursed, let alone make it through the next month. They also make two proposals. Firstly, they ask Vertex to make the medicine available for free and to expand the target group. Of course, you cannot answer that question. I understand. Secondly, they urge you to pay back already and, as soon as an agreement has been reached, to recover Vertex's refunded extra price. This would have been the case in France, when the French government negotiated with Vertex. I agree with those questions. Vertex has also indicated that it will continue. You expressed your legitimate concern about the dossier in plenary last week. I fully understand the procedure, but in summary I would like to put the following questions to you. Could you consider the proposal in the open letter? Do you have a visual on timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u3	Mr President, I will not recall the context of this dossier or the effectiveness of the Kaftrio. Furthermore, patients with cystic fibrosis testified with the hashtag stick of waiting. These poignant testimonies demonstrate their anger at Vertex society, which takes them hostage – because that is really what this is about. This model of negotiation for orphan drugs has exceeded the limits of decency. I wonder how much more Kaftrio, Kalorid and Zolgensma will be needed to promote a European model of cooperation that guarantees fair prices. We're not there yet... Patients are still hoping for a positive outcome in September, all the more so as our neighbours reached an agreement. I will not ask you about the reasons for blocking the negotiations. Nevertheless, Minister, I wanted to ask you whether the size of our country – and therefore the limited number of patients with cystic fibrosis – could be a decisive explanation. Moreover, why has the Beneluxa initiative not been activated for the Kaftrio, when the Netherlands has been able to bring their negotiations to a successful conclusion? Finally, can patients hope for a positive news for the month of September?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u4	Mr Minister, after years of waiting for a breakthrough, two expensive but vital medicines in the fight against cystic fibrosis, Orkambi and Symkevi, have been repaid by health insurance. The impact of these medicines on the disease and on the quality of life is very large, so great that one hopes that muco can evolve from a rare disease to a chronic disease, according to Stefan Joris of the Muco association. However, the refund of the medicine Kaftrio is awaited. The company Vertex apparently pulled the plug on 29 June 2022. We have all received the press release from the patient association about this in our mailbox. Retreating the file is a major blow to the many cystic patients and their surroundings. However, Kaftrio will be repaid in our neighbouring countries. The introduction of a refund is, of course, subject to a whole process, which you know better than anyone else, but the patients' association is inclined to restart negotiations as soon as possible. Minister, I have three questions on this matter. Can you describe the state of play of the Kaftrio reimbursement process? Why did the Vertex company withdraw? I understand that you may not be able to answer those questions, but it is still an important question. What perspective and timing are there for new negotiations? What perspective is there for the cystic patients with regard to Kaftrio?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u5	Minister, you were very clear last Thursday. The negotiations are not broken and you hope to be able to reach a solution with the pharmaceutical company that developed the Kaftrio. The issue of current procedures is not really of interest to families living with cystic fibrosis. These people are waiting for the result and every day counts. It is becoming increasingly clear that patients must be given access as soon as possible to innovations created by private companies. I have already asked you a number of questions on this subject, on the development of the Beneluxa group negotiations, on the need for foresight and vigilance at both Belgian and European level, and on the latest innovative treatments. You told me a few weeks ago that we were involved in setting up structured international cooperation so that we could map innovations and exchange information about them. That would be a very good thing. You were still telling me about it in the future. We cannot continue to see patients on the other side of our borders who benefit, fortunately for them, in particular, from the triple therapy of Katrio so Belgian patients do not benefit from it. You can imagine, like us, how the latest news was received by families. We know that the gap is great between imagining and suffering directly. Minister, how do you explain the waiting times for applications for reimbursement of these innovations in Belgium? Why have these negotiations not been initiated jointly with other Member States for Kaftrio, particularly in the Beneluxa context? Pending the conclusion of the ongoing negotiations, do we have alternatives to make the Kaftrio accessible now and in collaboration with the States where it is already accessible? Do these ongoing negotiations, as you announced last Thursday, concern the treatment of patients at least twelve years of age and children between six and eleven years of age, as I had already asked you to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u6	Minister, I asked you again last Thursday in plenary and you offered me a non-response, a kind of refusal to respond. Since then, there has been an open letter from the Muco Association of reference specialists in our country from UZ Antwerpen, UZ Gent, UZ Leuven, Saint-Luc University Clinics, Erasmus, QFCUH, UZ Brussel, CHC Liège. These are really the references for the management of patients with cystic fibrosis. They tell you that the situation is inhuman and unacceptable because it is not a medicine that might improve things. We are here in a situation where this medicine has been validated for almost two years, since August 2020, by the European Medicines Agency. Yes, Minister, every complication that may occur in a patient with cystic fibrosis in Belgium because he would not have had access to Kaftrio has potentially severe consequences, respiratory sequelae, potentially fatal complications, and reduced life expectancy. We are therefore well in a matter of life and death and therefore a form of non-help to no one in danger. You don't have a choice. We've got to make a deal. It has been a long time since the promise was made. Time passes. It's extremely long. Are negotiations difficult? Perhaps, but almost all the other countries of the European Union have reached an agreement and not for two days. So I have two requests for access for patients over the age of 12. It is to summon the firm and force an agreement that must be immediate. If this is not the case, minister, we must basically find a plan B. I have already made several suggestions to you for Plan B, which is, since we are in a context validated by the European Medicines Agency, to provide and allow access to the medicine through an agreement with one of our neighbouring countries. You have the choice since many of them allow access to Kaftrio for patients. This agreement will have to be official in order to avoid patients having to go for a walk in a neighbouring country and thus allow not only access to the medicine but also a refund. This reimbursement will have to be possible even in the absence of an agreement for the moment in Belgium, which allows you to continue the negotiations with Vertex in a balance of forces which is a little more to your advantage - you have at least taken your responsibilities so that patients can have access to the treatment. Here's the first part. I also want to ask you about the accessibility of the medicine for children aged 6 to 11 who have not yet been validated by the European Medicines Agency. However, in view of the results and the scientific data, I note that some countries, such as France, have decided to allow premature access to Kaftrio for children aged 6 to 11 with cystic fibrosis and in a number of cases, especially for certain carriers of mutations, because of the innovative nature of the major added value of reducing complications. I have also given you in writing the mutations which have been validated by the High Health Authority (HAS) in France. Like what has been envisaged, for example, by the HAS, it is also necessary to be able to do so for Belgian children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u7	Mr President, I will be brief. The picture is clear and well known to all. The fact has just been made by my colleagues. This is irreversible damage to hundreds of patients, as waiting for this treatment can have dramatic consequences for their health. It is an impeccable treatment if it cannot be reimbursed. Hundreds of patients are now taken hostage by the disrespectful attitude of a pharmaceutical company. Their expectations are unacceptable and endless. Minister, I know that you may not be able to provide all the answers. Why are the negotiations now at a standstill? When can patients expect a refund authorization? This issue is of paramount importance. Waiting is no longer possible for them. Do you have temporary solutions to the legitimate expectations of patients who need this treatment and cannot afford it? Why could a joint negotiation under the Beneluxa initiative not be carried out? As my colleague Mrs Hmente has said, the process of access to innovative medicines needs to be reviewed. It's too complex, too long and too blurry. What are you thinking about at this level? Finally, there is also a need for transparency in the negotiations. How do you intend to improve it in future negotiations with pharmaceutical companies, and specifically when it comes to innovative medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u8	Minister, the wait for patients with cystic fibrosis is unbearable, which they have indicated through an open letter to which the pneumonologists have joined. Today, they are literally taken hostage because of the cynicism and thirst for profit of the pharmaceutical industry. Indeed, it is known that the sale price of Kaftrio was fixed at €190,000 by Vertex, whereas, as demonstrated in a study, the cost of producing this medicine is only €5,300 per year. We are therefore faced with an abuse of a monopoly position. Some colleagues have said that Vertex invented and placed this medicine on the market. But much of the money that has been raised for the development of this drug has been raised by patients and patient associations. And finally, today, patients do not have access to it. Minister, what do you intend to do to remedy this situation? Today, this medicine is marketed in Argentina at a price of only 5,300 euros thanks to the application of a compulsory license? Is this a lead you're considering? Several colleagues have said that there is a need to find alternatives to secret agreements. This solution may be one. In any case, after the English authorities threatened to apply this licence, agreement could be reached on a more acceptable price for Orkambi. It seems that today the negotiations are again under way. But there would still be a nine-month waiting period. However, in plenary, you said that you were looking for a solution. Will we really have to wait all the time for this procedure? How is it possible that this medicine is already reimbursed in other countries and not in Belgium? The cystic fibrosis association has asked that, pending the outcome of the negotiations, Vertex be able to make available, free of charge, the medicine for patients who really need it. Have you had any discussions on this? Have you applied to the pharmaceutical company?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u9	Minister, this is not the first time that I have asked you about the Kaftrio reimbursement package for people with cystic fibrosis. I had already asked you about this at the beginning of May and I can only see that nothing has moved since then. Last Thursday, you replied in plenary that negotiations with the pharmaceutical company Vertex were continuing, that you did not spare your efforts to find a solution and that, in the end, you could not say anything more so as not to compromise these negotiations. These secret negotiations seem to have no outcome today and plunge patients into an endless expectation of reimbursement of a medicine that is vital! This situation is all the more insurmountable since we are one of the last countries in the European Union not to provide for the reimbursement of the Kaftrio. As a reminder, this treatment represents a cost of almost 200 000 euros per year for the patient. Without reimbursement, Kaftrio is simply inaccessible to patients who may have irreversible sequelae due to lack of adequate treatment. Minister, what is the status of the current tariff negotiations? How is it that these negotiations are surrounded by so many contradictions, since the press announced on 4 July that the pharmaceutical company Vertex had withdrawn its claims for reimbursement of the Kaftrio medicine after it had become "clearly clear that an agreement with the Belgian health authorities would not be possible at the moment"? Has a new procedure already been initiated with Vertex? Have you considered other avenues? I am thinking, for example, of compulsory licences, since they can be used in the event of a national emergency. I am also thinking of agreements with other European countries that allow the reimbursement of the Kaftrio. What do you mean by "don't spare your efforts"? Could you explain all the steps taken so far to obtain reimbursement for this treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard all the speeches and concerns expressed. Of course, I have also read carefully the publications of the experts, the teachers concerned, the patient associations, whose concerns I share. In fact, today I can only repeat what I have already said in the House. I understand your frustration. We are continuing the negotiations, which are in the right direction and are therefore not yet closed. For this reason, every minister should be silent. In order for the negotiations to succeed, I must remain silent about their content. I hope they will end soon enough. It is, of course, true, Mrs Fonck, that we must remain human. In a negotiation, however, both sides must be. It seems to me that the discussions are continuing in this direction. And I hope to inform you soon of a result. However, since they are secret and take place in camera, I cannot provide any details for the time being. That's the procedure. It is in the interest of all patients to obtain this medicine and its refund as soon as possible. That is also my motivation. In order to deal with the debate more broadly, it is clear that, to the extent possible, cooperative approaches must be undertaken across borders, as we have done for Zolgensma. I am therefore very much in favour of European initiatives. With regard to the early access procedure and transparency, I suggest that you listen to my subsequent answers to two questions from Mrs Depoorter, concerning transparency and my intentions in the negotiations with the industry. These are rather specific questions to which I will give specific answers. And on this, too, I continue to negotiate with the industry. The debate is therefore much wider on early access, transparency and how to negotiate. It is also necessary to consider developing a European approach. To avoid repeating myself, I suggest that you wait a little while until I talk to Mrs Depoorter about two different issues that will be discussed this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, read the open letter well. I think it is an important initiative. It's an important appeal to the negotiators. I absolutely share the concerns of these patients. I assume that I will soon get a good result from the actions. But no responsible minister can speak out today of the negotiations that are going on, if he wants to succeed in the interests of patients. That's what I want to do. It has been said that we want a good and human solution. I agree. We must find this solution, with two partners at the table: the company on the one hand and the public authorities on the other. I have good hopes that we will soon find a solution in the interests of patients. A good solution, which is also correct for health insurance, and which is serious about its reimbursement and its budgetary impact. I hope that I will soon be able to communicate that solution to you, but I am not ready today. There is indeed a much broader debate on the need for transparency and on the necessary European cooperation, but it is a coincidence that Mrs Depoorter has asked two reasonably precise questions in this regard, to which I will reply in a moment. I propose that we leave Mrs Depoorter the privilege of asking these questions, and that you participate in the debate on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u11	Mr. Secretary, this is a little weird. I am not sure whether I should let Mrs Depoorter ask her questions or give priority to Members' replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u12	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u13	That would actually be desirable if Members were to agree. It's a strange way of doing things. However, we must be pragmatic. If, in your reply to Mrs Depoor's questions, there are elements of answer that relate to this topical debate, we will hold the replies. Is that okay? Ladies and gentlemen, if everyone agrees, I propose that Mrs Depoorter put her two questions Nos 55028216C and 55028524C and then give the floor to the replies. This is not quite the formal way to do it, but so you can also take these elements into account for the replicas. Is that all right with you? Otherwise, you won't be able to reply afterwards. As I see no objection, I give the floor first to Mrs Merckx for the attached questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u14	The question about the rare diseases was about the study on the 10 most expensive medicines the Independent Hospital Fund issued. For example, last year it spent EUR 30 million on the 10 most expensive medicines. This represents an increase of 5 million euros since 2019, while the number of patients treated has not increased. 8 out of 10 medicines on that list are orphan medicinal products, the other 2 are cancer medicines. These include Kymriah, Onpattro, Qarziba and Spinraza. The cost of all these medicines was recorded in a secret contract. What will you do about these untenably high prices of these medicines? How do you explain the significant increase of 20% in expenditure, although the number of patients treated has not increased? What will happen to the secret price agreements? Will you step off those secret contracts? Such negotiations put the pharmaceutical industry in a strong negotiating position. In the debates on the open farm dossier, you agreed that research into medicines should be directed more publicly. Will you also stimulate public research into orphan diseases and medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u15	Mr Minister, my question concerns the same investigation. 8 of the 10 most expensive medicines are reimbursed and administered to patients with orphan disease. These are therefore essential medicines, but the reimbursement is usually covered by a confidentiality contract. I found it very remarkable in the article that the person responsible clearly indicated that he was not aware of the real cost, as this is contained in confidential clauses, but that he was based on the quoted price. That calls for the next question. Is that publication true and is your policy sufficiently transparent about these expensive orphan medicines? Are you also prepared to provide new pharmacodynamic criteria for innovative medicines? It has been since 2008 that the KCE has investigated this. Will you also work to improve the transparency of medicines? Are you willing to create a framework for quick access as part of a pay for performance for about 3 years, as is the case in other countries? How many funds have been recovered from the pharmaceutical sector in toto? When does the expiry of such a temporary reimbursement project show that the proposed criteria were not met? I have requested the statistics for 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. Finally, we sometimes have to deal with situations where the patent of innovative medicines would fall out of contract. Then it is very difficult to work with biosimilars or generic means and to organise their pricing. Are you prepared to do something about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u16	Minister, in your policy paper you indicated that a pact is being negotiated with the pharmaceutical industry. Six working groups were set up to this end. The theme of fast and sustainable access was also explained there. The idea would be to ensure the earliest possible access to medication and innovation for the patient when a patient participates in clinical trials. Belgium is the leader in clinical studies and in your policy paper, and also by the government, it is said that there will be a strong commitment to this. We are also all convinced that fast access and early access are necessary and that our patients, when looking at the WAIT indicator, do not have sufficient rapid access to reimbursed innovative medicines. How does the early access in the pharmaceutical pact take shape? You have communicated this in the media, so I suppose there is already a framework. What is the status and/or implementation of the pay-for-performance principle? What guidelines on transparency are used in the pharmaceutical pact? What is the status of the work of the six working groups? When will the working groups conclude their work? When do you expect to close the pharmaceutical pact? I would also like to see the state of negotiations with the pharmaceutical sector with you. How many times have you been together? To what extent can we get feedback on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u17	Mr President, my answer is partial, for one piece it is about ongoing discussions, but it does provide a little more context in relation to the discussion on Kaftrio. I'll start with the publication of the Independent Hospital Funds. I am asked whether I think that is a true publication. Yeah, I think the publication is true. I have no reason to doubt that, to be honest. However, sufficient attention must also be paid to how much health is bought for the very expensive medicines and to the fact that half of the medicines are covered by a confidential agreement. On the one hand, there is the unfortunate news that half of the ten medicines concerned lack transparency. On the other hand, it obviously means that the actual expenditure on these medicines is much less than what is published here. This is also explained in the publication of the Independent Hospital Funds. It is not the case that the sickness funds have no knowledge of the confidential prices paid. The insurance committee of the RIZIV is represented by employees of the sickness funds in the working group responsible for the discussions on confidential agreements. They therefore take part in these meetings and also have an advisory vote in the working group. Do I find my policy sufficiently transparent? Well, my policy is as transparent as possible in the current legal context. As always, I think that legal context is susceptible to improvements. We're working on that, too. That is exactly one of the challenges in the negotiations on the pharmaceutical pact. I was asked whether I would be willing to launch a new study on pharmacodynamic criteria for innovative medicinal products through the CCE, as the previous study on pharmacodynamic criteria is outdated. Well, the directives were updated in 2012, but I believe that a number of elements can now be supplemented. One can, for example, make an explicit link to the RIZIV site for information on the 100 % Nursing Day Prize. The Belgian value set, the standardized measuring instrument for measuring quality of life, has been updated. Staff members of the KCE were planning to submit a proposal to include a new study in the annual programme of the KCE. In other words, updating the pharmacodynamic criteria makes sense, but I do not think there are any problems in applying the current directives. I was asked if I would work more towards transparency in pricing. Everything shows that transparency has become a very important issue in discussions on pharmaceutical policy. For industry, there is a clear demand for greater transparency on the costs of research and development, patents and clinical trials, and for the publication of how much public money was spent on the development of certain medicines. This question is not only being asked in Belgium, but also internationally for a long time. That is why I think we should work on this internationally. For example, we are active in the Oslo Medicines Initiative, in which one of the three central themes is transparency, alongside solidarity and sustainability. In other words, we are pushing the cart of transparency at European and international level. It should not be forgotten that innovation is only valuable when a medicine reaches the patient and it also offers significant benefits to the patient. Then there was the general question as to whether I am willing to focus on fast access to innovative medicines. I am willing to focus on any technology that offers access to valuable medicines in a sustainable way. I think it is necessary to consider, on a case-by-case basis, which technique is best suited. We are doing this today in the current legal framework. In reply to Mrs Depoorter's questions, I will say more about the discussions on early access. How many funds have been recovered so far under these contracts? Get the figures for 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. The total compensation recovered from the pharmaceutical industry under the agreements under Article 81/111 was around 358 million euros in 2018, around 605 million euros in 2019, around 754 million euros in 2020 and 1,02 billion euros in 2021. You will find these figures in the MORSE report of the RIZIV. What are you going to do at the unsustainable high prices? How do you explain the significant increase in spending on that particular medication? The study is based on the published list prices. It does not contain the refunds we get in the negotiations. Cost allocation always takes into account different factors, including how much health can be taken care of. I do believe that there is a global problem with the excessive list prices of medicines. I believe that we need to address this to an important extent internationally. I'm going to go into the refunds a little more precisely. Of the top ten medicines, five are temporarily reimbursed by means of confidential agreements. On average, about 40% of this is recovered from industry. This is reflected in the MORSE report, which also says that these compensation rates are increasing over the years. That is also the commitment of the negotiations that my staff are conducting. What about the many secret appointments? Don't such agreements strengthen the negotiating position of the pharmaceutical industry anymore? Mrs Merckx, in my view it is not so much the secret agreements that make the pharmaceutical industry strong. It is not so much the secret character, because that works in the two directions. Because of its secret nature, we can ask for very strong compensation on the list price they publish. They want to publish high list prices, and we can go under them in secret negotiations. That actually works in two directions, but it is of course not good that we do not have that transparency in an ever-increasing segment. In that respect, I share your opinion. The willingness of a government to pay depends on good and bad reasons. The good reasons are the scientifically confirmed benefits a medicine offers, a medical emergency and the ability to continue to finance in the long term. There are also less good reasons, certainly the monopoly position of pharmaceutical manufacturers, but also public pressure, media, lobbying and patient organisations that are deployed by industry and are also aware of this. It is therefore necessary to be able to obtain accurate, complete and objective information for the general public, for citizens and patients on the effectiveness of medicinal products and on their long-term effects. That is what transparency must be all about. I come to the questions about the pharmaceutical pact. Early access is at the heart of Mrs Depoorter's questions and that is quite right. For me, improving early access is a very important commitment to the negotiations on the pharmaceutical pact. I am thinking again of the difficult situation we are now facing for the patients who need Kaftrio. We have indeed set up six working groups. You are asking what that looks like in concrete terms, and I can say the following. Early access is the interface between the FAGG and two RIZIV bodies today: the Advisory Committee on Temporary Compensation for the Use of a Medicinal Product on the one hand and the Special Solidarity Fund, on the other hand, attached to the College of Doctors and Directors on the other. If you start working on one thing, that is to say the advisory committee in case of temporary relief or the special solidarity fund, then the other body is also directly involved. That's why the project that's on the table looks like this today. Following a favourable opinion of the Committee for Human Medicinal Products, temporary compensation may be granted to a medicine that has a promising effect in patients with severe illness. The discussion is still under way whether the current funding will be maintained, i.e. that the advisory committee will grant temporary compensation to the company in the event of compensation, or that a payment will be made to the hospital, which in turn will pay the manufacturer. That's actually the CTG situation. That's what we're discussing. We are quite specific about this, but I cannot yet comment on how we will land in this discussion, for which it is too early. Then ask what is the status and/or implementation of pay for performance. Pay for performance is one of the techniques applicable in early access. Like I said, is the point then:pay to whom? To what agency? There's still some discussion about that. Then again transparency in your questions, Mrs Depoorter. Maybe I'll put it another way. Transparency calls on each of the parties involved to make efforts in the decision-making process. The main line cannot be that the manufacturer proposes an excessive demand price for a promising therapy and that a contract should then solve this budgetary problem. There are other aspects to a transparent decision-making process. I am also thinking, for example, of cooperation with patient organisations. I think this is important, and I want to strengthen the role of patient organisations in pharmaceutical policy and in decision-making. You are also asking about the working groups. Either they start work or they move on. There are still those involved, also within the RIZIV and various agencies. I hope to have some sort of plan of action before 21 July which is more concrete about the guidelines and how we will continue to steer them. However, I do not think I will have many results by 21 July. I also want to beware of too complex solutions. I believe that the good intention of getting proper therapies to the right patients should not be lost in very complex or unworkable procedures. So that is another point of interest. To sum up, I hope to be able to take an important step by 21 July with the full overview of how we will land the working groups. However, we will not have landed. Early access is essential. I have given you a few elements, pay for perfomance can be an important criterion. Finally, I would like to reiterate that we need to cooperate more and more internationally. Our input into the European debate on the European pharmaceutical strategy and the European regulation currently under discussion are therefore very important. Mr President, I would like to return to Kaftrio. I understand the impatience. It is right to find a solution punctually. We do this in existing procedures, unfortunately again only at Belgian level. The overall problem should indeed be addressed better in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u18	Thank you for the broader debate. That debate will certainly follow in this committee. After Thursday's debate, it was clear that you cannot and cannot say much about Kaftrio. I can understand that, too. Can we not look at solutions for accelerated access for patients with the greatest need today, who unfortunately cannot survive a longer period without irreparable consequences? However, this is also part of the negotiations. I hope you can come up with good news soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u19	Minister, of course I did not expect great revelations today either. A good news, in any case, is that the negotiations will continue and, I hope, will materialise. There was a need for a broader debate. Actually, the problem is really there. We cannot imagine plans B each time, on a case-by-case basis. This is not a sustainable perspective for patients who suffer from a rare disease. In order to have credible action at international level, the first step is to move forward on a European consultation. The Commission actually launched a citizens' consultation on the issue of orphan medicinal products in 2021. The revision of Regulation 141/2000 is expected to take place in December this year. Although I do not know the content of the amendments to this regulation, I fear that the revision will focus even more on incentives for innovation. However, we also need transparency and a fair and accessible price guarantee. Firms currently have a monopoly of almost ten years. It would be fair for the share of public and private funding to be clearly established in the negotiations. Beyond innovative medicines, we are also on the eve of a boom in gene therapy. These will be very sophisticated research and on a case-by-case basis. It is therefore necessary to anticipate a fair framework in terms of research and innovation, and sustainable for public finances and, above all, for patients. One thing is certain is that the Group of the Greens will make proposals in this direction at the beginning of the year. Colleagues, if you are consistent with what you are asking for, for patients with cystic fibrosis and for all patients with rare diseases, I invite you to convince your European colleagues to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u20	Minister, you say that we must be patient, because the negotiations are still going on, but for many patients with mucous membranes, patience is equal to bad living conditions, for many even with death. With Kaftrio, cystic patients will have a viable life again. It would then be thought that the Health Minister would do everything in his power to make it affordable and accessible to those patients. I have the impression that you're letting the pharmaceutical company Vertex take care of you, leaving a lot of patients with mucous membranes to their fate. Stick a tooth on the table, Mr. Secretary. Why, for example, do you not respond to Mr Muylle's proposal to repay Kaftrio already, pending an agreement? That would save a lot of mucoc patients. Let's take a look at the price. US-British research shows that the cost of production for Kaftrio would be around 5,300 euros. That's 35 times less than the starting price that Vertex put on his pill. Then where is this so-called philanthropic attitude that pharmaceutical companies keep waving around with? There are few words for such an attitude. I think that's inhumane.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you cannot add anything to your reply last Thursday in plenary. You recalled that negotiations are continuing in the interests of patients and that they are moving in the right direction. We therefore trust you and insist that every day counts, but you are fully aware of it. I also hear you on cooperative approaches across borders, and I welcome that. Mr President, I do not understand that my question No 55028888, which the Minister has just answered, was not associated with that of my colleague. It focused on access to innovative medicines and the Fast Access procedure. I received almost all of the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u22	It is noted here that it is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u23	Mr President, I thought it would come too soon, depending on the question about the Kaftrio. I have therefore asked to postpone it, but if the committee agrees, it can be considered that it has received an answer today. Is it feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u24	All right. The secretariat will take the necessary steps to ensure that it is considered to have received a response.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u25	Is the minister okay? Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u26	We take note of that. This pushes the agenda forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u27	Minister, I would like to react on three aspects. First, there is the currently unacceptable side of the Kaftrio situation. You said that a responsible Minister of Health could not say anything today. Perhaps, in substance, a minister responsible for health should have already reached an agreement earlier. I think you left things behind. However, the pressure has been permanent and we are constantly reviving you because it is a medicine that has a major added value for patients, and because there are major scientific and medical evidences. Seeing that almost all the other countries of the European Union had reached agreement and made treatment available to patients, you should have considered this as an absolute emergency, as the minister responsible. Now it is a matter of reaching agreement and making this treatment available to patients. They need it. It's a question, I say again, of life or death. Minister, you haven't answered me, but you must now prepare a plan B that you can operate if you don't get an agreement in the next few days. You don't listen to me, but it doesn't matter because I'll keep putting pressure on you. We cannot imagine that in the next few days there is no agreement and above all no availability. I really insist on the preparation of a plan B if you do not agree that this medicine can be made available to patients through an agreement between an officina from a neighbouring country and an officina in Belgium. Kaftrio should be available for patients and reimbursement of treatment should be as if there was no alternative treatment. You know that the rule exists and that it could be adapted in this urgent case. Secondly, minister, I did not get any answers for children between the ages of 6 and 11. This, too, remains a major emergency for me. For example, HAS in France has allowed early access in a number of cases, particularly in relation to certain types of mutations for which medical and scientific evidence is very clear. I invite you, if I may, to consider the situation as a matter of urgency, not only for children over the age of 12, but also for children between the ages of 6 and 11. Let us not repeat the mistakes of non-decisions, of the non-actions of recent months for adults, the over 12 years old and children from 6 to 11 years old! Thirdly, the principle, in my view, in terms of medicines, must be the general transparency of prices. Secret conventions were supposedly exceptional as they were increasingly used and this is not the case today. It has been repeated for years without the intervention of an independent control. In this regard, there is a shift that has already been argued for and that will continue to be argued because it is a public health problem and a democratic problem. On the European side, Belgium has always been quite sluggish in this respect. I dare hope, beyond the big words, that Belgium will start the higher speed in order to have negotiations on a wider scale and thus allow a pay for performance mechanism but also accessibility, in early access, for patients. Finally, the pharmaceutical pact will indeed have to draw up a number of provisions which would allow agreements and, above all, early access. In any case, I will carefully examine how you will continue to deal with this issue. For the Kaftrio, give yourself a deadline of a few days and prepare this alternative access plan B for all patients if this agreement could not be reached!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. You say you are in full negotiation, which is why you are silent. In doing so, one can only hope that an agreement will be reached quickly and will not take the nine months mentioned in the open letter of patients with cystic fibrosis. Perhaps you could still have said a few words to reassure them. Nor did you say anything about a plan B, in the event that you would actually have to wait nine months. I am thinking here, for example, of a request to Vertex for free access to Kaftrio for some patients during this period. In addition, you did not comment on the price set. This may make sense given the fact that the negotiations are under way, but you could still have said a few words about it. As far as secret contracts are concerned, you say that they have the advantage to the extent that it allows you to ask for greater compensation. But we have to compare the figures for compensation – you talked about 40% in 2020 – and the net budget, for its part, is exploding. When compensation is removed, from 2014 to 2020, a budget of EUR 180 million is increased to a budget of EUR 1 billion. Over six years, the amount has so to speak been multiplied by ten. Today, these contracts are exploding. Will you be able to reverse the trend and impose your plans? Your statements on this subject remain very vague. There is currently an abuse of monopoly position on the part of pharmaceutical companies. The contracts are used for profusion; proof is still the recent case of Revlimid, which was under contract until the generic drug came into the market. This is an exaggeration. It is therefore not only a matter of transparency, but also a question of how the prices of medicines which are too large and which are not linked to the cost of production should be reduced. I would like to point out here that research is often financed from public funds. That is why I am not in favour of pacts with the pharmaceutical industry. This is also an invention of Mrs De Block. I don't understand why you're pursuing this path. We need a pact with the population. We must listen to patient associations, consumer associations such as Test Achats, associations such as Kom op tegen Kanker or Médecins du Monde. Reference should also be made to the KCE study on compulsory licences. A system must be found to break this monopoly of pharmaceutical companies when there is abuse of monopoly position and patent. We must look at how to restore the right to have a monopoly but also to have a reasonable price for a drug. The track of compulsory licenses studied by the KCE is a real track that we need to look at.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u29	Minister, I obviously did not expect to have any great revelations about the negotiations. As you explained, they must remain confidential in the interests of all. However, I am still hungry. While thirty-two countries managed to reach an agreement with Vertex, Belgium could not. I don't understand it! We need to bring Vertex back to the negotiating table. We must not be held hostage to financial considerations. It also takes a timing for an agreement. There is an urgent need for the hundreds of patients who need this treatment today and cannot take care of it. Time is money, says the saying. Probably for Vertex. But here, time is life! The time has been running for too long and unfortunately there will be no summer truce for the victims of cystic fibrosis. So all actors must take their responsibilities, including yourself, Minister, and come back to the negotiating table immediately with an emergency solution that cannot wait for the political return. An immediate response is needed and, pending this, at least one alternative is needed for patients to access this treatment and not suffer dramatic consequences in a terrible disease of which they are victims. Their suffering should not be further exacerbated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u30	Minister, thank you for your non-response. You remain in a position of mutism and it is unbearable for patients who are totally desperate. There is no timetable for negotiations or even a plan B if these negotiations fail. You have not responded to some of the solutions that we have proposed and which would be necessary in the event of blockage by the company, including the use of compulsory licences, which is quite possible in the event of a national emergency. Patients stay in the dark while there's an emergency! When you suffer from an incurable disease, every day counts and every minute of life earned is a victory over the disease. Today, you justify your mutism by the fact that the negotiations are under way. You say they're on track when you can read the opposite in the press. Indeed, the press reports that the company believes that an agreement is absolutely not possible today. This does not give the impression that things are on track, rather it looks like a unilateral break in the negotiations. I hear an opening on your part to greater European cooperation. However, I think this is largely insufficient because it will not be able to redress the inequalities that still exist between patients in the European Union today, whereas cystic fibrosis is a disease which, of course, knows no borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u31	Minister, a great deal of time has been wasted. Between October 2020 and today, on average, I asked you once a month about the state of the drugs and orphan diseases. You did have time to present the Galenus Prize or have great communication about your plans for fast access. The bottomline is that you are communicating today that you will have a plan of action by 21 July 2022. Congratulations. There's gonna be a claim. When my motion for a resolution was adopted, you indicated in your opinion to the majority that there are only 5% of orphan disease medicines and that it is not all that important. Thanks to our input, you have realised that the file is important and you have started to work on it. Let's hope it leads to something. What I find, however, is that the communication with the pharmaceutical sector, which, for example, in the corona period, caused us to have a vaccine within the year, so that we could really protect our vulnerable patients, is going very hard. After all, I hear from the pharmaceutical sector that there has only been one meeting on the pharmaceutical pact. That is in contrast to all the plans you have presented to us here. It may be planning and not facts. It is only by sitting together and negotiating, with respect and open visor by both parties that you rightly point out that this open visor must also be there with the pharmaceutical sector, that you will achieve a pact. I note that there is not much time left for your cabinet during this term of office. So you're gonna have to hurry. There is also the framework to which you refer, namely that a system of pay for performance could be developed either through hospitals or through the pharmaceutical sector itself. When we look at the neighbouring countries, we see that it goes very smoothly through the pharmaceutical sector itself. I have my questions to ask if they are going to burden the hospitals with that too. Moreover, it is not just a question of hospital medication but also of outpatient medication. How will you organize that? After all, you cannot allow the distribution of innovative medicines to go through the hospital pharmacy alone. That is a concern that immediately occurred to me when I heard your reply. The reform of the CTG has not yet been completed. The patients' organizations are asking for that. We are talking specifically about Kaftrio today. We are the only country with starting criteria for Kaftrio. These are things that patients' organisations could bring to the CTG very clearly, with expert doctors who can explain why the starting criteria for Kaftrio should be abandoned. Then the experts from your organization could listen to that. Let us be honest, Minister, a great deal of time has been lost with Kaftrio. You say that you hope to come up with a solution soon, but you must also come up with a solution quickly because the deadline is coming. I am confident that you will come up with that, but why is that so difficult? Why did the patients have to go to the press? Why did the firm have to go to the press? What's causing this immobility? The patients are waiting for this, Minister. The file's been stuck for so long. The molecules are known and in the neighbouring countries this is refunded. There is even a major research in our country, Horizon 2020, in which the UZ Leuven has the lead, with which we can provide personalised medication for people with a different mutation and where children with Kaftrio can be treated to prevent permanent damage to the lungs, as Mrs Fonck said. Minister, a great deal of time has been wasted and a great deal of concern has been created for patients. I hope that there will be positive communication very soon, but I hope even more that you will come to Parliament with a real plan for the rapid reimbursement of innovative medicines, especially for orphan diseases and orphan cancers. Minister, I am particularly sorry to note that when there is a conference on orphanoncological preparations, the RIZIV and your cabinet are absent. That worries me. The patients' organizations invite official federal institutions but are not being heard. That does not demonstrate much ambition in that context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u32	Minister, we all know that the recognition of mental health is crucial for an accessible and qualitative GGZ. We need different profiles. We need them all in mental health care. With the Muylle law in 2014, we have had the recognition of the clinical psychologists and the clinical orthopedagogues. Two years later, on 10 July 2016, the law on the recognition of the supporting GGZ professions was adopted. They are still not defined in concrete terms today, while they also play a very important role in the multidisciplinary cooperation around GGZ. You referred to it in the 2022 policy paper. This question was raised in March 2022 and we are now July 2022. As regards the supporting GGZ professions, the opinion of the Federal Council for the mental health professions was issued on 20 June 2022. What is the status of this file? You have received the advice officially. Is there a timeline for the implementation of this opinion? Will implementing decisions have to be taken on the recognition of these support professions? Will we be involved in the new convention on first-line psychology? All these questions concern the practical implementation and implementation of this opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u33	The Federal Council for mental health professions has indeed passed on to me its advice on the supportive mental health professions. As you know, this is an opinion that is important for strengthening our mental health care in Belgium and for the professionals who are active in it. That is why I instructed my policy cell to thoroughly analyse this opinion and to initiate the necessary consultations on it. You are also right to make the link to the first-line psychological convention. The agreement provides that care providers can perform interventions during group sessions. A specific agreement concerning providers who are not clinical psychologists or orthopedagogues was approved by the RIZIV Insurance Committee in March 2022. However, in this agreement, care providers are more broadly defined as providers of a mental health-supporting profession, e.g. a social assistant or an experienced expert, and who exercise that profession in the context of a professional institution such as an OCMW or a school. There is no prescription of the clinical psychologist or orthopedagogic eye, but both are jointly responsible for the content and form of the group intervention. During the sessions, the healthcare provider offers his expertise for the execution of the group sessions. Moreover, the care provider is also an important actor for the early detection of mental health problems and the continuity of care. He is an actor that is taken into account in the initiatives developed for the local multidisciplinary partnership. These are some of the first answers I can give you, Mrs Van Hoof. I would also like to examine that opinion carefully and draw all the useful conclusions from it, but allow me to proceed with this first.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u34	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Indeed, you have already said that this specific convention of the RIZIV already gives some recognition to the supporting GGZ professions, allowing them to work with group sessions. This is important, but it is also about getting that recognition, which allows them to work partly autonomously or under the supervision of a clinical psychologist or orthopedagogic. The opinion gives concrete expression to the recognition of this autonomy and to what they can do under supervision. There are 3 distinct groups: the general supportive GGZ professions, the psychological consultant and the orthopedagogic consultant. I hope that they can quickly see how they can be recognised, because not only the patients but also the sector itself needs clarity. I therefore hope that you will come forward with a concrete response in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u35	Mr Minister, it is a crisis in the care of children and adults with speech, language or hearing disorders by logopedists. According to the sector, fees do not allow a practice to be financially viable, and then we leave aside the consequences of the covid pandemic and current inflation. About 30 to 40% of the work is not reimbursed according to the logopedists. They also raise the excessive administrative burden and the problem of patient accessibility. As a result, according to the Flemish Association for Logopedists in Belgium, about eight practices stop per month. In addition, 40% of self-employed logopedists indicate that they wish to seek employment or leave the profession. The practices that are still functioning have waiting lists of on average 6 to 7 months or even a withdrawal stop, leaving patients behind without the necessary logopedic care. The regulation of the profession for logopedists and patients takes place in the RIZIV Agreement Committee Logo-Mut, where a number of agreements and principles have been established, but so far there is still no convention for the profession, to the detriment of both patients and logopedists. On 25 April 2022, the RIZIV Insurance Committee waived the imposition of a convention that does not include the renewal of the fee. What action will you take on this matter, Minister? Do you recognise the high administrative burden and the problem of long waiting lists? What action will you take on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u36	- A working group will propose the criteria for access to benefits for certain disorders. It is accepted that logopedia is essential in the treatment of certain pathologies, which is not included in the current nomenclature. One child in 68 is currently diagnosed with ASD in Belgium and is not reimbursed. However, weekly logopedic follow-up is essential in the treatment of certain pathologies, which are not included in the current nomenclature. Is there a refund of the logopedias sessions for ASDs and for all children without disabilities who are in need in this context? Thank you for your answers. Mr President, unfortunately I have to take a few minutes to vote in another committee. I will read your answer, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u37	On 16 May, the RIZIV Insurance Committee adopted and approved the contract text logopedie 2022-2023. The Council of Ministers has been followed. After publication in the Belgian Official Journal on 15 June, the text was submitted individually to each logopedist. The agreement takes into account many elements which were widely supported in the Convention Committee. For example, projects to which the Agreement Committee on Logopodists-Insurance Institutions is committed are included in order to develop them further. One of these projects is about administrative simplification of the application procedure, to which you refer in your question. Of course, I recognise the desire of the Committee on Agreements to look for ways of administrative simplification in order to spend more time on care. The committee has two wishes and/or proposals on administrative simplification, which were also included in the text of the agreement. First, she asks the FPS Public Health to amend the relevant regulations so that a bilan can be made up by a logopedist without a doctor's prescription. In this way, the logopedists can be responsive to the implementation of a bilan. Only bilans that demonstrate the inclusion criteria for compensation for a particular disorder and meet the quality conditions of the nomenclature could be covered by compulsory health insurance, as is currently the case. I would therefore like to have the impact of this measure examined thoroughly. Secondly, the Convention Commission will propose a simplification of certificates of assistance in order to make them clearer and more transparent. I look forward to her proposal and will, of course, look into it thoroughly. The Agreement Committee on Logopedists-Insurance Institutions indeed calculated the amount of 33,40 euros for an individual hearing of 30 minutes as a reasonable fee. However, there was no agreement with the sickness funds on when this amount should be obtained. Moreover, such an increase in fees indeed calls for an additional annual budget of EUR 32 million, which is an increase of 20% of the current budget for logo therapy. The current budgetary framework does not currently allow for such an increase in 2022. I would also remind you that Mr Ronny Boey, the chairman of the professional association, has approved in the insurance committee the partial budget target for 2022. It would please him if he explained that to his members. Maybe you can do the same. The chairman of the professional organisation approves the objective and the budget and discovers much later that it is unacceptablely low. That's impossible, isn't it? That's how it happened. Those are the facts. There's an important difference with Axxon. The physiotherapists did not approve the partial budget objective and then said that it was not high enough to negotiate it seriously. That was fair, correct and transparent to their members. However, Mr Ronny Boey approved the objective and then opposed it. That's not serious. However, that does not mean that I do not understand that it is disappointing for the logopedists. I do think we should work on revaluation in the future, but we must say things as they are. I would also like to repeat, Mr De Caluwé, that in the past efforts have already been made to revalue the fees of logopedists. In 2020, fees were raised from €23.60 to €28.04 for a 30-minute session. That was an important increase, wasn't it? In addition, the government has recently decided to grant an advance on indexation for all healthcare professions from 1 June. So that is an advance, and the indexation itself is still, of course, continuing. For the logopedics sector, this amounts to EUR 2,236 million. Finally, the logopedists' professional organisations indeed state that in Belgium eight practices per month close the doors and that this creates waiting lists. That figure is based on their own findings. The RIZIV does not have validated figures on waiting lists or on recent closures of speech therapy practices. So I can't control that. I am, of course, concerned about the situation in the sector. However, since the budget for 2020 has been approved, including by Mr Ronny Boey, we cannot change it this year. In response to Mr Rigot's questions, first of all, as in other years, the text of the convention has not been discussed with the federated entities, since it concerns health benefits paid under compulsory health care insurance. We would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, on the one hand, these fee adjustments have been covered only by the health care insurance budget, because the user ticket share has remained the same for several years. This decision was taken to ensure accessibility to care. On the other hand, regardless of the contractual status of logopedes, they are obliged to apply the single tariff for patients receiving the increased procedure, also in order to guarantee access to care for patients in financial difficulties. Your second question concerns access to logoped care for patients with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and for patients with a broader disability. The nomenclature currently excludes reimbursement of a logopedic treatment in case of secondary disorders due to psychiatric conditions. The causal link between these conditions and logopedic disorders is often difficult to prove. The commission of logoped agreements-insurers is aware of these difficulties and has somewhat mitigated its position; but the legal text has not yet been amended. The Working Party on Nomenclature, composed of members of the Committee on Conventions, will be responsible for formulating a proposal for the reform of the exclusion criteria, taking into account the existing budgetary framework. In the meantime, the Commission has decided that treatment agreements may be granted by mutualities provided that the logoped or prescriber of the treatment clearly states that there is no causal link between the ASD and the logopedic disorder, regardless of the disorder in question. However, it should also be noted that health care coverage for certain logopedic treatments, in the case of language development disorders and disorders such as dyslexia and dysphasia, is excluded when the patient is undergoing special education, as is the case for some patients with ASD. This is due to the fact that logopedic care is, in these cases, financed and organised by the education system, which falls within the competence of the Communities, not federal health care insurance. This is my answer to Mr. Rigot's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u38	Mr. Minister, Mr. Rigot will take note of your answers in the full report or via the audio-visual archive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. It is indeed new to me that the President has agreed to this. I will certainly inform you of the reasons and why his opinion has changed. I'm very curious about that. This, of course, does not solve the problems in the sector. You admitted that, too. You have also acknowledged that there are problems. Patients remain behind without any care. I believe that we must look effectively for ways of solving the problems. This applies not only to the speech therapy, but you know better than I do that it is the same story in many other health areas. So let us work together to find ways to get rid of the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u40	Minister, both Pfizer and Moderna have stated that they are working on a modified omicron vaccine. That could be in production by autumn. The delivery of this is not entirely certain, but there is a new fact since the submission of my question, because the FDA has recommended the companies to work on an adapted omikron vaccine to give the patients an extra booster in the autumn. I would have liked to hear from you the government's view on the modified omikron vaccines. What strategy does it intend to implement in the medium term? What has the government decided on the contract concluded? According to my information, the new vaccines have already been included. Will you be able to enforce that you will receive the appropriate vaccines? Which patients or target groups will you initially administer the appropriate vaccines? If we were to receive the new modified omikron vaccines in the autumn, what will happen to the stock of vaccines that is now available? After all, that is quite a large stock. Could it still be used for our patients? Will it be donated to other countries? Are there any other slopes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u41	Mrs Depoorter, it is absolutely not a reproach, but I think this question was tabled before we clarified our vaccination strategy for the autumn at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The question certainly remains relevant. I would like to stress the principle that, according to all the data, the available vaccines remain extremely effective against the risk of hospitalisation, i.e. against serious covid. The experts quote figures up to 80% or 90% reduction in the risk of hospitalisation. I can only say first of all that people who haven't gotten their third shot today or those who have received a letter to get a fourth shot due to immunity problems should immediately make an appointment at a vaccination centre. In Flanders, the 80-plussers also received a letter to get a fourth shot. If one receives such a letter from the competent government, in this case the Flemish government, do so. Those vaccines are very effective. That is why the vaccination strategy assumes that we will be able to use it properly. If, of course, there is an adapted vaccine, which is approved and is more effective, it is better to switch to it. That's the general line. Your first question was about the contracts. We will use the current contractual provisions in consultation with the Länder to obtain the modified Moderna vaccine. Yes, we will proceed with the purchase of modified vaccines as soon as they are approved and can be delivered by the EEA. Approval and delivery are, of course, always the double problem. You also asked which patient target groups with the new variant of the covid vaccine will be vaccinated. The emphasis is on the fact that the existing vaccines are totally okay. If we were to get new vaccines, and we would get them later, for example, we would have to look in our strategy at which group of patients they are best suited for. I do not want to anticipate that now. That is, of course, something that is also being looked at by the task force. The reason I do not want to anticipate this is because these are hypothetical scenarios, that we will continue to vaccinate partly with existing vaccines and partly with the new ones. These are hypothetical scenarios, and I do not want to anticipate them. You also asked the important question what would happen to those who are still in stock if we switched to a variant vaccine. What we still have in stock is the initial vaccine, tailored to the Wuhan variant. The expiry date will be extended after approval by the EEA of the new stability data that the company will submit. If the vaccines cannot be used and no interest is found, for example through bilateral donations, vaccines may need to be destroyed. There are currently 2,353,300 Modern doses in stock, which expire between 1 July and 27 October 2022 on the basis of current stability data. However, we look forward to a possible new dossier on stability data to be approved by the EEA. This could mean that they can be used longer. I do not want to anticipate this, but we cannot rule out the fact that we are dealing with a situation in which they have fallen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u42	Mr Minister, the company will indeed submit a new dossier, but the majority of these 2.3 million doses will expire before the end of August. Today is almost mid-July, so we're running out of time. I hope that a solution will be found, because it was expensive vaccines, which indeed prove to be effective against serious covid. However, everything goes back to the contracts, Minister. The contracts concluded were not watertight and were really not negotiated properly. We know today that up to 25% of the vaccines that will be delivered in the autumn will be modified vaccines. You will have to make sure that, especially in view of the communication made by the FDA on 1 July, we do not find ourselves in a situation in which Europe is in the rear of the train, that the new vaccines will be received in other countries, but that Europe will be left behind. It's still a focus. The contract was not properly negotiated at first and we are still left with these problems, hence a call: sit at the table with the companies and ensure that European patients have the same rights as patients elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u43	Minister, this question is actually also part of the pharmaceutical pact and innovation. There's really a problem getting back combination therapies, especially in case of secret contracts. A combination preparation starts with a basic product, the backbone, and an add-on is added to it. Even if the composite preparation is necessary for the patient, you rely on the backbone for the refund. The initial firm should be responsible for the additional costs of the add-on, which belongs to another firm. This very complex system ensures that our pharmaceutical companies apply very little for reimbursement of combination therapies, so that patients, for whom the medicine is necessary - it is very often about cancer therapies - do not have access to those combination therapies. I would like to get some more information on the model on which we are now based. Would you reconsider that? If yes, under what circumstances would you revise that and, if no, why not? Are you considering drawing up a plan for the complex applications for combination therapies, where we're heading towards personalized medication, which we really need, especially in cancer therapies? Do you have a cancer plan for the reimbursement of cancer medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u44	Mrs Depoorter, today there is indeed a need to initiate a separate procedure at the CTG for the various specialities of the combination treatment. There is no specific procedure for a therapy consisting of two or more proprietary medicinal products. This often results in a two-step approach, starting with the reimbursement of add-on therapy and, if possible, an interpretative rule for backbone therapy, followed by a procedure allowing the reimbursement of backbone therapy in the intended indication. This is not satisfactory, partly because of the delay between the approval of the reimbursement of each component of the combination and the way the evaluation is carried out. A parallel refund procedure with simultaneous application for the individual components is also sometimes initiated. That is better than sequential procedures, but it is not conclusive either. In practical terms, each company can suspend its own procedure, thereby compromising the simultaneous outcome. The therapeutic value of the combination is not the addition of the value of each component of the combination separately, but the result of the interaction of the components. Possible measures to adapt procedures to the emergence of combination therapies are indeed being examined in the development of the pharmaceutical pact. It is important to note that such measures cannot be considered individually, but are part of a global pharmaceutical policy. Furthermore, we must ensure that policy changes are implemented in parallel and coherent with other reforms. The economic evaluation guidelines still apply methodologically to new interventions, including to combination therapies. The uncertainty in assessing cost-effectiveness is primarily linked to uncertainty as to the added value and effectiveness of intervention compared to the alternatives. The guidelines for carrying out an economic evaluation have no impact on this. Scientific uncertainties about the added value of interventions can only be answered through scientific studies with a correct research design. The economic evaluation guidelines require that the uncertainties, including the treatment effect, be properly included in the calculations. Those were the elements of my answer to your absolutely pertinent questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u45	Minister, once again you show good intentions but little action. You have been suggested mirror procedures. They really work, too. So consider them. Today, in the facts, the reimbursement of combination therapies is very ad hoc. Our patients really deserve more. You are right that this should be accompanied by a framework that also involves the synergistic effect of two different molecules. We need to work evidence-based and we need to link data to it. However, if two pharmaceutical companies can prove with each their molecule that a combination therapy really makes a difference for the patient, they should be able to apply for reimbursement for that medicine in a predictable way. Minister, I will certainly continue to work on the dossier and follow it up. We absolutely need that framework in the light of future personalised medication.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u46	Mr. Secretary, Paxlovid can be ordered out of the box. The house pharmacist should then order the product from Medista, which will take it to the pharmacy. I have said many times that I regret that you are not working with the regular pharmaceutical wholesalers, with which the pharmacist is working regularly and professionally. At the time of submitting my question it was true that the KB has not yet published the delivery fee for Paxlovid for the house pharmacist. It's the second time you've engaged the house pharmacist during the covid crisis when you don't provide funding for it. Mr Minister, when will that delivery fee be provided? Will it work retroactively? If not, why? In the meantime, what quantities of Paxlovid were delivered through the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u47	Ms Depoorter, the Royal Decree of 23 June 2022 implementing Article 42 (1) of the Law of 13 June 2021 on measures to control the COVID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 11 July, i.e. yesterday. The Decision shall apply retroactively from 18 February. According to the latest data, between 16 April and 28 June 487 treatments of Paxlovid were delivered to hospitals and official pharmacys.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u48	Then, Minister, I am very pleased to have asked my question. It is very good that on the Flemish holiday the house pharmacists were also thought of.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u49	We just kept working on the Flemish holiday. That's good, huh?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u50	I would have allowed you to decide this on 18 February, but for once you have been forgiven for working on our holiday. It is good that the pharmacists will be paid for their work, that is only normal. Minister, I can only encourage you to provide a fee for the vaccination by pharmacists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u51	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u52	I'm counting on you to fix that, because nobody likes to work for nothing. Even if the pharmacists are very aware of society, it would be a sign of respect if you also provided a fee for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u53	Minister, you know the Psychology and Corona Group. During the covid crisis, this interuniversity group closely followed the evolution of the motivation of Belgians to follow health measures. This group has a major added value and psychological and behavioural impacts should never again be neglected. In my view, it is fundamental to maintain this form of motivational and mental health barometer. This permanent watch group helps identify signs of distress in the population early in order to be able to act more quickly on certain factors. It also helps to guide policy choices so that they are better accepted and applied. It also helps to communicate with the authorities in the event of a crisis. The mental health challenge is not only to offer psychologists when people are not doing well, but also to have a broader and more anticipated approach. The question of maintaining this group is therefore raised in the wake of the covid crisis and, more broadly, in other future crises, in particular for the climate challenge that we will all have to face together. Minister, will funding for this important research be continued and guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u54	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Fonck, the motivation barometer initiated by the University of Ghent was designed to measure the mental temperature of the population during the pandemic. Funding for this barometer ended on June 30, 2022. The theme of mental health has also been addressed in all covid-19 health surveys organized by Sciensano since April 2020. There were ten of them. The eleventh covid-19 health survey is being organized and serves as a precursor to the Bel Health cohort, which will begin in September 2022. Cohort participants will be asked about their mental health every three months, which will help identify mental health trends. Currently, follow-up is planned for 18 months. The results will be included in the Mental Health Scoreboard. Then, starting in January 2023, Sciensano will organize the national health survey by interview. Ten thousand inhabitants will be questioned. As with previous surveys (1997, 2001, 2004, 2008, 2013, 2018), the 2023 Health Survey will pay much attention to mental health. The results of the 2023 Health Survey will allow a comparison with mental health in the pre-pandemic period, notably by comparing with the results of the 2018 Health Survey. In addition, Sciensano is in the process of forming a population cohort (Bel Health) that will be regularly invited to respond to surveys of the various health indicators, including mental health, which also includes motivation. Structural funding for this activity is not yet foreseen. We are now looking at how we can strengthen this support to better monitor the mental health of the population. I do not recall here all the measures taken in consultation with my colleagues in the Health ICD. The first line, which is not easy to deploy, is evolving. I believe that there must be a close link between these analyses, these investigations and the policies to be carried out. It was in this sense that it was important to reinvest in this type of investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u55	Minister, obviously we do not share the same perception. This famous group "psychology and corona" is not only a thermometer that took the mental temperature of the population during the covid crisis. The objective of this approach to clinical psychology is not simply to intervene when the population is going wrong, but also to examine its feelings, to see what can be done to improve understanding, to detect problematic early signs and to better guide policy choices so that they are better accepted for the benefit of all, with a view to greater effectiveness. You tell me that the funding ended on June 30 and that investigations will be conducted by Sciensano to continue the temperature gain. I don't see things like you at all. You are depriving the authorities, but also the citizens and public health, of this major approach that was developed during the covid crisis - which we are not rid of, I remind you - and which we will still need. It is a shame to do without such a surplus value. I therefore invite you to review the way in which you view this issue. Whether we find ourselves in a covid or not context, you need to continue this approach, not only in the form of a thermometer, but as a way to make policies and public authorities more effective in health and to help them better understand the situation in order to get the measures accepted. This aspect of mental health can therefore be truly improved. Therefore, Minister, I hope that you will review your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u56	Minister, we have talked about many times that the operation within the FPS Health and the FAGG is not optimal. The N-VA Group has also put forward a proposal on several occasions to carry out an audit of both organisations, which you have not discussed. Today we are hearing reports that the malaise within both organizations is only increasing and that the road is a little lost. To what extent are these rumours consistent with reality? What signals do you receive about a possible malaise within the FPS Health Department? What are the main consequences of this? What are the causes? Are they structural or incidental in nature? The same questions apply to a possible malaise within the FAGG. What are the main consequences? What are the causes? Are they structural or incidental in nature? What steps have you taken to ensure that both organisations work better structured and that the right person ends up in the right seat? What steps do you wish to take or will you take to ensure that the operation is better? Meanwhile, a director who came into contact with the parquet on another seat has been put within the FAGG. How can you explain all that? What is the latest state of play regarding the position and functioning of the chairman of the Public Health Office? Are we still dealing with interim presidents? Will you find a structural and long-term solution? In other words, will the chairman of the FPS be definitively appointed? How do you see all this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u57	The chairman of the FPS is still on sick leave. Such long-term sick leave is, of course, a major problem for the organisation, but it also means that during that sick leave I have not been able to take any further steps with regard to the evaluation of the chairman, working interviews and so on. Obviously, that is not possible if someone is on sick leave. So that is a problem for the organisation and I am looking for a good solution. I believe that the staff of the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment and the FAGG, who have been in the front line of the fight against covid, have given a tremendous amount. That has led to great fatigue. After all, the staff have also waived covid contamination. This problem has surfaced at the FAGG, as with the RIZIV and other organisations involved. First of all, I would like to thank the staff of the FAGG and the Public Health Office for their enormous commitment during the past period. By the way, I must say that I do not find any remarkably higher absenteeism at the FAGG in relation to previous years, for whatever reason. The health crisis has not led to an increase in staff turnover. The staff is very tired because of the burden of the previous period. The fact that the FAGG has faced a delay in recruitment procedures has also played a role in this. Before the pandemic, this has led to a shortage of staff in certain services. When the FAGG was confronted with the crisis, it had this problem and it could not recruit specialised staff in the short term. This structural problem, the confrontation with the crisis and the slowness of recruitment procedures have caused enormous stress. I think the FAGG is well aware of that. We are also trying to rectify this with an ambitious staffing plan. The fact that the FAGG is also aware of the burden on employees is also reflected in the commitment to teleworking, the right to deconnection, the re-launch of a new support cell staff and organizational development and so on. We're trying to implement the personnel plan properly. The first effects are already felt by regular recruitments. On the basis of a satisfaction study, a number of issues have also emerged which have been analysed and divided into different themes. Those themes will be further developed in 2022 and 2023, involving employees of the different entities. The leadership of the FAGG wants to focus even more on well-being, with the emphasis on the reintegration of long-term absent staff. She also tries to focus on maximum constructive cooperation with other federal organisations and focuses on the acquisition of new skills by the employees, so that they can evolve in an environment that is also changing greatly. So there has certainly been enormous stress in our organizations, especially at the FAGG. That is certainly because of the pandemic, but this is also structural. This is being worked on with an ambitious staffing plan that is being rolled out. As far as the FOD is concerned, we are very well aware of the problem the organization has due to the absence of the chairman. We're looking for good solutions for that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic853x.u58	Minister, it is unbelievable that almost one and a half years after the start of the FPS president's sick leave, there is still no solution. This is the organization that's supposed to lead us out of the pandemic, but she doesn't have a leader. So you're sending me blind. That's my biggest criticism. I've asked you so many times to do an audit, so you know what you need for all the organizations. After all, it is not just about the FOD, the RIZIV also suffers from a lot of absenteeism at the moment. There are a lot of absentees, just like the FAGG. Make a thorough analysis of their needs and, for God's sake, deal with them. We've been having the same discussion for two years. It's summertime and we hope the pandemic will leave us alone for now. Use that time. Make sure that the organisations you are responsible for are optimally organised, because that is not the case today. It is your responsibility to ensure that your services work properly so that patients are protected. That is not the case today, because it is really a sloppy thing from your policy.
