ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u1	Madam Minister, it has now become clear that an agreement has been found between the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany, defining a common objective of 150 GW for wind at sea. However, communication was not clear as to what that means for the ambitions you would like to formulate here from the federal level. Of course, commitments have already been made in the past in the field of offshore winds. So the question is what the whole package looks like. This is rather about formalising the objective of 5.8 GW within the international agreement, which could possibly grow to 8 GW, depending on the time at which it is concerned. Madam Secretary, what commitment has been made in this context in concrete terms by the federal government? How exactly is the 150 GW divided between different countries? What does this distribution look like under the shorter target, in particular 2030? By 2030, a commitment of 65 GW has been included. How are we supposed to look at that? Are there any issues that need to be worked out through an additional policy framework in our country, or is that not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u2	Madam Minister, this morning we talked to Elia's CEO about the North Sea as a green power plant of Europe. You have made your appearance in the Danish Esbjerg, where you signed a declaration together with the Prime Minister. The ambitions are particularly great. The four countries concerned want to achieve a total capacity of 65 GW by 2030. That's a quadruple. For 2050 we're even talking about 150 GW, ten times more than today. Collaboration is of course very important in this story, in order to achieve one large network. We discussed it this morning, Belgium is strongly committed to interconnection with other countries. This concerns not only Denmark, but also, of course, the existing interconnection with the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands. Apart from the well-known intended capacity, there is, of course, the preparatory analytical work. In the question submitted, I quoted literally from the Esbjerg Declaration. I would have liked to have a little more explanation about that. For example, what struck us was that each state concerned should set up a team of experts against the December Energy Council. Could you give me more explanation in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u3	Madam Secretary, last week there were two important events. On the one hand, the European Commission announced the REPowerEU package of concrete measures aimed at becoming independent of Russian oil and gas. On the other hand, there was the North Sea Summit with the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany on which you were present and which resulted in the Esbjerg Declaration. The aim is to go with those four countries to 65 GW wind energy at sea in 2030 and 150 GW in 2050. Those two, of course, are not separate from each other. I have three questions about that. Firstly, the REPowerEU component is expanding the capacity of the gas infrastructure from Belgium to Germany. We know that Germany imports quite a lot of Russian gas and that needs to be compensated. That actually means new investments in fossil infrastructure in our country. Can you tell me more about that? Is it a completely new pipeline or an extension of the existing pipeline? Where will it lie? What is the amount of investment involved? Who's gonna pay for that? Is that Fluxys? Will that then be passed on to the grid costs of the gas bill or not? What's the deadline? When does that infrastructure need to be in place? As soon as possible, I presume, but is there any agreement on that? Secondly, are there concrete additional measures for our country in the REPowerEU plan or are the current plans and decisions that you have already taken as a government within the REPowerEU framework? Can you give a clear list of any additional projects, investments or measures that might apply to our country under that plan? I have a similar question with regard to the Esbjerg Declaration. How do the international targets of 65 GW in 2030 and 150 GW in 2050 relate to already determined policies for our country? You are examining the possibility of generating 8 GW extra in Belgian territorial waters. What additional concrete measures or investments are needed to achieve the objectives of the Esbjerg Declaration? Here too, I would have liked a clear list of the additional projects, investments or measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u4	Madam Minister, I suspect that everyone agrees that coordination and cooperation at European level will provide a solution to the major challenges, not only in terms of climate transition but also in terms of energy independence. In that connection, I have two questions. Firstly, the Lisbon Treaty still makes the energy mix a responsibility of national governments. Shouldn't that be reviewed? Secondly, do you not think that REPowerEU may contain too many innovations too quickly? Should we not first ensure that the existing programmes are fully implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u5	Colleagues, the Esbjerg Declaration has not come out of the sky. It is not simply a list of capacity for a number of years. Mr Wollants, I will come back to the specific figures and commitments in a moment. In fact, the statement mainly leaves the bottom-up of existing projects and previous decisions, coupled with the acceleration we are making by connecting with four countries. I have just spoken in the budget about the fast track for the offshore grid. The North Sea has a capacity of 300 gigawatts in the European Union's offshore strategy. We are going to make maximum use of this capacity for electricity and direct electrification on the one hand, while the surpluses can be used to produce hydrogen on the other. That is not Belgium's strategy, because we have a very small area, but it is from a number of other countries. The energy potential in the North Sea is very high, but that is, of course, due to projects that will begin. You know that I announced at the beginning of January 2022 that we would connect our North Sea with Denmark, the so-called Triton Link. On 23 November 2021 we signed a MOU with Denmark. By developing the project further, i.e. through the working groups that are taking place and the consultation, not only between the network operators but also at political and administrative level, it appears that it is extremely useful to involve other countries in the project. This leading role of Belgium and Denmark has led to wider cooperation, which has resulted in the Esbjerg Declaration. This is an important step in the further development of concrete plans in the field of wind at sea. As I said earlier, this is not merely an explanation. These are plans that are being worked out in concrete terms. On the concrete plans, we are talking about interconnection at bilateral level. We also discussed this with Elijah this morning, in particular the Nautilus project with the United Kingdom, which is anchored in the MOU. I also went on an economic mission with Princess Astrid a few weeks ago, where I spoke with my colleague Kwasi Kwarteng, also at political level, to get the project to get the necessary traction. It is not that the project needs additional traction, but we do work within the UK in the context of the Brexit, which nevertheless involves a number of complexities. The Nautilus connection is crucial for both England and Belgium, including the security of supply of the two countries and the acceleration of the energy transition. That is why we are following this very closely at ministerial level, so Kwasi Kwarteng and myself. For the Triton Link with Denmark, we have working groups at the level of administration, network operators and regulators. However, the Nautilus project also borders with the Netherlands. The Triton Link will also cross the Dutch zones at sea, as will the German zones. That is why we have brought together the Danish, German, Dutch and Belgian administrations to organise this in a structured way. It's included in the Esbjerg Declaration. Finally, in a broader context, we are also working together within the North Seas Energy Cooperation with all North Sea countries, including Norway. For England, it is being considered whether and in what way that country can be re-involved in the cooperation. Within the North Seas Energy Cooperation an integrated network in the North Sea is being developed. With those four countries, starting from that particular project, we are actually taking the lead in setting the necessary acceleration. Let me give you the concrete figures. Germany has currently built 7.7 gigawatts and the target in 2030 is 30 gigawatts. The Netherlands has currently built 2.75 gigawatts and the target in 2030 is 21 gigawatts. Denmark has currently built 2.31 gigawatts and the target in 2030 is 10 gigawatts. Belgium has built 2.26 gigawatts and the target in 2030 is 6 gigawatts. As you know, that 6 gigawatt falls apart in the fork from 5.4 to 5.8 gigawatts. We have chosen to use a rounded figure, of 65 gigawatts, in the statements, which is at least, while mathematically speaking it is about 66,71 gigawatts. As far as the distribution for 2050 is concerned, it concerns at least 150 gigawatts. We talk about 70 gigawatts for Germany, 38 gigawatts for the Netherlands, 35 gigawatts for Denmark and 8 gigawatts for Belgium. You know that Belgium only manages a small part of the North Sea. You're also questioning me about density. So we seem to be a little out of tune, but this is largely offset by the expertise of our companies, which are also active in many of those countries. For the 2030 target, we do not need to create a complementary policy framework. The necessary measures are listed in the decision of the nuclear cabinet of 18 March. As we have just been able to discuss, we have also made available the necessary budgets to avoid delays. Mr Warmoes, you asked questions about REPowerEU. You refer to the part of the ENSAG assessment of the additional gas infrastructure needed, in particular for the region of Western Europe. A strengthening of the capacity to increase the flows of the LNG terminal in our country to Germany is seen in the plan as an important step to reduce dependence on Russian gas in Germany. However, this is an assessment, an evaluation based on discussions with the parties concerned. In this context, Belgium proposed the Opwijk-Desteltonk project, which could increase the output capacity to Germany to 30.6 gigawatthure per hour. It concerns the construction of a second pipeline over 44 kilometres next to the existing pipeline, the so-called VTN, the large transport axis of H-gas between Zeebrugge and the German border. The new infrastructure is very important to us. New infrastructure means: immediately ready and compatible for the transport of hydrogen. A feasibility study is under way. This project can be carried out by the end of 2023. On the German side, the necessary infrastructure is being built to increase the import capacity to 30 gigawat hours per hour. Before the infrastructure is built, it will of course be examined first. We are very keen to see that this strengthening is eligible as a European project of common interest. First of all, of course, we are talking about the protection of Germany, where we can play a crucial role because Germany will become less dependent on flows from Russia, while we have a lot of import capacity that does not come from Russia. You know that only one third of the capacity imported for use within Belgium serves. At the same time, this strengthening is important for the security of hydrogen supply and the connection of our industrial clusters. The REPowerEU ambitions are translated into an increase in the ambition of legislative initiatives with a view to the targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy from the "Fit for 55" plan. How they are translated into Belgium will of course depend on the negotiations on these dossiers within the Council of the European Union. Other objectives of the REPowerEU Plan require the Commission to present new legislative proposals, e.g. for joint gas and hydrogen purchasing. That is what I was talking about earlier, following the budgetary platform that is being set up. The EU IT Tool for Demand Aggregation and Infrastructure Transparency is also involved. Transparency is extremely important in setting up the co-purchase platform. For its part, the EU provides the necessary IT, so that the platform can work effectively, because it is nice to arrange something on paper, but one must of course have an effective infrastructure to make it work. There is a tight regulation on gas storage, but several Member States have, of course, already taken their own national initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u6	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. When I add up what's on the table, I think the most important part of that agreement is that it opens the door to speak within a specific frame with the Dutch, and to a lesser extent the Germans, about letting the Triton Link pass. Of course, the other elements were already on the table. The other projects discussed were already in the package. The ambitions are those that had been established before. In that sense, I can follow you that it did not fall from the sky. I wouldn't say we're completely out of tune. When the power is laid along the coastline, it comes down to other numbers. The Netherlands has a coastline of more than 450 kilometres. Germany's almost 2,400 kilometers away. Denmark has 7,300 kilometres, including Greenland. At our 76 km coastline, a number of things need to be put into perspective. It might as well be. I will probably ask you another question about this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u7	Thanks for the explanation. You have not been very punctual about the expert team that will have to find preliminary sites of islands and hubs by December in order to achieve enlargement. After 2030, your third wind turbine park zone will probably have to be part of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u8	They were mainly informative questions. You said at one point that it was about new infrastructure, namely 44 kilometres, from Zeebrugge to Germany. Mathematically, that's not true, so this will be partly new infrastructure? That infrastructure will be ready for a possible switch to hydrogen. European Commissioner Timmermans once said that the existing infrastructure was also useful for hydrogen. What about the new and old hydrogen infrastructure? Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u9	As you know, I have explained a number of times in the context of my policy paper that we should first look at the recovery of the existing gas structure in the field of hydrogen infrastructure. There's no discussion about that. As part of the federal hydrogen strategy and open access backbone, we are completing the regulatory framework. I hope that I will be able to come to the committee with that before the end of the year. That will be the starting point anyway. It would be an interesting suggestion for Parliament to talk to Fluxys about hydrogen and the CO2 backbone, just as you talked to Elijah this morning about the interconnections. As far as the 44 kilometers are concerned, I didn't understand you very well. In this case it is about a new piece of pipe that is built next to the existing pipe. When it comes to new infrastructure, it cannot be intended to be compatible from the first time. It is not intended to create beached assets. We must send a clear signal to the market that this can only be a transition. That leadership is considered so important to us because our hydrogen strategy is focused on connecting those clusters. But I didn't understand very well what (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u10	So where's that 40 miles?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u11	I'm gonna have to look that up on the map. My geographical insight is not so (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u12	We'll do that later. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 55027318C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u14	Madam Minister, you have asked the National Bank (NBB) to draw up a proposal for a crisis contribution from the energy sector. Indeed, some producers currently have billions of euros in surplus. The NBB was due to come forward with an answer by the end of May. Your question for an opinion was a response to the CREG report at the time. Have you received an answer from the NBB? What's she proposing? In committee, you said last time that the government would assess possible measures based on the input of the NBB. So what's on the table now, if there's anything on the table? Are you keeping the timing? If we do not have a European initiative for skimming the surplus by June, then the Belgian Government itself would take action. Honestly, I don't expect anything from Europe, but you might. What position does Belgium defend at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u15	Madam Secretary, we first saw the profits of ENGIE last year. Then there was the mid-term report of EUR 1.5 billion over three months, only through Belgian nuclear power stations. We have already discussed the subject in committee. That was a very long and technical discussion. I am particularly concerned that such a company should make a fair contribution when it becomes dormant. It does not need to make any extra effort, because European pricing makes a huge profit today when families and SMEs are struggling. We're about to face a long and uncertain winter. So the situation is untenable. What is the status of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u16	Minister, we know the situation. I'm not gonna call her back. It is also recalled that, after consultation with CREG, opinions were sought from a law firm and the National Bank of Belgium (NBB), with the aim of finding a way to tax over-profits made by operators of nuclear power plants. You indicated that a joint report from CREG and BNB was due by early June. On the other hand, you have announced that if a European initiative has not been launched, a decision could be taken by the government in June. Minister, these are my questions. 1. The government intended to define criteria for the creation of exceptional profits through Europe before June. Have these criteria been established? Can you inform us about the state of play of the work carried out at European level on this subject? Can a joint initiative be considered in the short term? If so, can you tell us what form this measure would take? 2. Has the report of CREG and the NBB on the nuclear rent reached you? If so, could we know the content? 3. What are the options currently envisaged to increase the allocation contribution, as well as the annual fee for Doel 1 and Doel 2? Under what deadlines could they be committed? Last month, a possibility was raised, namely to violate the taxes currently in force, so as to nullify the prohibition of additional contributions and allow the government to establish new tax measures. If the European initiative were not to succeed, would that be the preferred path? 4. In addition, CREG raised two proposals to increase the contribution of operators of gas-fired power plants: on the one hand, to tax profits above EUR 100 per MWh of electricity per year by 70%; on the other hand, to combine excessive profits with CRM calculations. Could we have your views on these proposals? Is government action in this direction envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u17	Mr President, the history of this dossier is well known, from the first time we put a question to the CREG to the question to the National Bank recently. I have not yet received an answer from the National Bank, but I will be more specific in a moment. The question was asked a moment ago about a European initiative versus a national initiative. The Commission indicated that Member States could and should consider this. The REPowerEU communication contains in Annex a list of two pages of conditions to be met by a tax on the marginal interest rate. So we know what regulatory context we will have to work in. This appeared on 3 March 2022. In the final version that has actually not become more concrete. So yes, we will work out our own initiative. In other words, we are working on our own initiative. I don't want to anticipate exactly what that's going to look like. We're working this out. So it is still a little too early to go into the specific details. You know I'd like to come once we've finished the thinking. The question was whether there were excess profits. That is why we have the CREG study. The CREG has calculated this for nuclear power plants whose life is not extended. They will be charged with the repartition fee today. This year it will raise 115 million euros. The CREG estimates this tax revenue between EUR 500 and EUR 700 million for 2022. Over the period 2016 to now, the remuneration contribution would already have taxed the profit margin around 60,75 %. This is significantly higher than the 38 % skimming that the repartition contribution aims to achieve. This is mainly due to the minimum contribution of EUR 150 million during this period, in which the plants were plagued by prolonged standstill and low market prices. For the whole period, 2016-2024, the CREG calculated that the repartition contribution will eventually reach almost 40%, i.e. slightly more than the expected 38 %. With regard to the power plants whose life span was extended, for Objectives 1 and 2, it is EUR 20 million per year, while Tihange 1 would still have a negative margin by the end of 2024 by recovering the historical losses made and the investment costs for the extension. Therefore, we do not receive any contributions. Did the State miss revenue, Mr Verduyckt? The income of the 2016 repartition contribution was between 250 and 470 million euros per year, depending on their availability. Remember that Electrabel has always appealed against this tax. Those appeals were suspended at the Constitutional Court by the Convention with the Belgian State. Has the Belgian State missed revenue? The answer to this is that the Belgian State organised itself in such a way that it missed that income. I think this is the correct summary. That's what I'm facing today. This is an actual element in the discussion, which we may or may not have to take into account, but it does play a part in the robustness of another framework that would be developed later. We should not be intimidated by this, but the situation is what it is. Then I come to the point of the gas plants. I have already spoken about this in the committee on 24 April. The CREG calculated it on a theoretical basis. I am not convinced by this reasoning. I have therefore asked the CREG to resume the exercise on the basis of actual costs and revenues by 15 June, so that we can take this into account in the measures that we will be developing in the course of June. I fully agree with you, Mr. Ben Achour, but the CREG is not providing me with the information I could take action on at the moment. If I have to do so on the basis of a purely theoretical calculation, I will be faced with an appeal to the courts brought by the owners of the existing plants. Therefore, I rely on the regulator to convince me that the theoretical model is on the road or to provide me with tangible figures for installed power plants. As far as wind at sea is concerned, the CREG says that there are no exceptional profits. The variable-supported parks face a reduction in support, resulting in 177 million euros from the Belgian State. The CREG estimates that wind farms need less support than foreseen up to EUR 2026 779 million. That puts earlier questions I have received about the support for wind at sea in a certain perspective. The fixed support parks sell their production via PPPs at a fixed price which, according to the CREG, corresponds to prices under normal market conditions. This is also checked by the regulator on the basis of open book. Then there is the question as to whether these excess profits after the repartition contribution and the reduction of subsidies are a problem for the Belgian economy. That was also my question to the National Bank. Today we are faced with the fact that an excess profit is neither legally nor economically defined. For me, a profit that creates an adverse effect for society and the economy can be qualified as an excess that we have to tax away, so taxing away an externality. We haven't received that study from the National Bank yet. The National Bank has indicated that it needs more time because it is faced with the same challenge, because there is neither a legal nor an economic definition. I want this to be objectively established as soon as possible, because if we want to tax this, we will have to be firmly in our shoes. Of course, we are not waiting until we have received everything, but we are now at work. We are mapping out various options so that we can complete this at once when we have all the information and it becomes clear very quickly which way the government wants to take. We can talk about the taxation of surplus profits here and focus on that, but it is even more important for me to know what we can do to avoid surplus profits in the first place. As the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER) says, the root cause must be addressed. If gas prices were not so high, and electricity prices were not so high, the problem of overprofits would simply not arise. That is why I am also looking at longer-term solutions and our views at European level are mainly linked to these longer-term solutions. Under the current market model, this is marginal pricing, which results in a contagion effect of high gas prices at electricity prices. In addition, this results in over-profits. We therefore invite ACER to explore alternative pricing mechanisms with a view to avoiding over-profits and making gas and electricity more affordable. I am referring to what I said in the previous discussion. The platform that will set up will automatically create more stability through a mix that is healthier, short-term and longer-term contracts. We therefore call particularly on the various European levels, the Prime Minister like me, to improve the long-term liquidity of futures markets, which can provide a stable and above all more equitable return on investments. However, I support ACER's proposals, which are mainly aimed at boosting long-term markets. I even think that in Belgium we should play a pioneering role in this area. I therefore invite the sector to join me in examining these ACER proposals and how we can put them into practice in Belgium as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u18	Madam Minister, Member States may consider an excess profit tax. You spoke of a communication from the European Union. However, it dates back to March. So that's not new. Italy has already decided and so has the UK, although they are not part of the EU. You wait and wait. You're busy right now. You have now requested a report from the National Bank and it is logical that you should wait for that. When's that gonna happen? Hopefully you will come forward with concrete measures at least before the recess. After all, this dossier continues to drag on. Secondly, you repeated what the CREG said about the repartition contribution. However, it is not clear to me what your position is on this matter. You did say that you did not agree with the CREG as regards the gas plants. For the repartition contribution, the CREG assumes that it is just over 38% on average over all years. The PVDA makes a distinction between the ordinary, normally foreseeable profit and the excess profit. The excess profits are abnormally high. If you want no one to be enriched by the crisis, it is 100 % to skim the excess profit. That is not what the CREG is proposing. You didn't position yourself on that. Thirdly, it's strange that you didn't say anything about the offshore. The time was also limited, of course. It is not provided for in the law that when the market price is so high that offshore producers make more than sufficient profits, they should actually repay part of their subsidies. You would amend the legislation for that, but you specifically did not say anything about it. I assume that this was a forgetfulness or that you can't say everything. Finally, you talked about the root causes. For us, the main cause is liberalisation! The functioning of the market is what it is with the liberalisation of the sector. This is the root cause of high prices today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for the overview and the clear message that there is going to be an own initiative. Indeed, it is regrettable that in the past the government has not managed to organise itself in such a way that it could receive a correct contribution from the company. The effect may not be simple, but the starting point is: in a society, a government must be able to decide how it gets its income from taxes and it must do so fairly. We do this to our citizens and to businesses, but we note that some companies feel it is necessary to set up a battery of lawyers there to challenge that. In committee, we often discuss the past, the ill-effects and intentions of previous ministers or governments who have not managed to organise it properly. Let us hope that your initiative is sound enough to secure a proper and fair contribution from the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u20	Minister, thank you for these answers. I understand that, with regard to the taxation of overprofits, there are still quite major difficulties, including the very definition of an overprofit, as well as the too theoretical model of calculation of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas (CREG). These are Engie's arguments, which I hear. I'm not saying they're legitimate or illegitimate, but maybe we shouldn't start from the idea of overprofiting. Let us simply create an additional tax, without saying that it specifically targets overprofits. We are in a context of price explosion, avoid the obstacle rather than waste too much time philosopherizing on the definition of an overprofit. All I want is for us to move forward, with a solid, effective mechanism, which will respond to the imbalance that the market has created between abnormally high profits, in any case unusual, and energy bills that have become unsustainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u21	Madam Minister, I would have liked to ask Minister Verlinden this question, but she referred the question to you, perhaps because it is a difficult question. I'm glad I finally get to ask them. Two months ago the federal government launched the campaign I have impact to encourage citizens to consume less energy. On the website www.ikhebimpact.be tips are collected ranging from cooking with the microwave up to 100 km/h driving on the highway. "Elf million little bits make a big difference," it sounds on the website that the government launched. In this context, I have two specific questions for you, Madam Minister. Are you going to replace your private chef in the cabinet with a microwave oven? Are the other ministers and secretaries of state who have a private cook going to do this? Are your private drivers and those of the other ministers going to drive the road for up to 100 km/h from now on?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u22	Mr Van Langenhove, I am also curious to see when I will have questions drawn up on the basis of what is really in the campaign rather than on the basis of what is in the newspaper articles. It doesn't say you have to cook with a microwave. It says that if you have the choice of heating up your food on an electric fire or with the microwave oven, the microwave oven is just a little more efficient. For the rest, you miss the ball on a number of other points as well. First of all, my cabinet doesn't have a private cook. Secondly, the campaign does not mention a maximum speed of 100 km/h. However, it says in the campaign that economical driving saves fuel consumption. All experts agree on this and this has recently been confirmed by the VIAS Traffic Institute. Both the International Energy Agency and the European Commission place the emphasis on energy efficiency in all the proposals they make to reduce dependence on Russian gas. That is also what is encouraged in the information campaign. Several European countries such as the Netherlands and Italy have launched similar campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u23	Thank you for the fact check. Do you have another reply, Mr Van Langenhove?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I note that you blame the VRT for spreading fake news. After all, those are not my quotes. Those are quotes from the article by VRT NWS about your plan I have impact. My question was also addressed to your colleague, who refused to answer the question. She does have a private chef, like many other ministers and secretaries of state in this government. You have not answered my question whether their private cooks will now cook or be replaced by a microwave oven. You also did not answer the question about the quote of VRT NWS to drive up to 100 km/h. I can only assume that the plebs, the people, will have to follow those rules in order to save Russian gas, so to speak, but not you. If you really want to save Russian gas, then you are not going for gas plants as this government proposes, but then you are going for nuclear power. That would really get you off the gas, unlike the bad plans you're putting forward here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u25	Madam Minister, we have just discussed the ACER report, the European umbrella of regulators, which published its final report on the functioning of the European energy markets last month. In committee, you stated that the European discussions on a price ceiling continue. What conclusions do you draw from the ACER report? How does that report affect the discussions on the introduction of a possible price cap? When will a decision be taken on the introduction of that price ceiling or other additional measures to address the energy crisis? What other measures might be on the table? In the meantime, Spain and Portugal have announced the imposition of a price ceiling, which I call the Iberian price ceiling in my question. It is therefore a question of imposing a price cap on the production units producing electricity from natural gas in order to separate the market price of electricity from the prices of natural gas. We find that particularly interesting. What do you think of that? Does Belgium also intend to decouple the price of electricity from the price of natural gas in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u26	Madam Secretary, you have already lifted a piece of the veil during the discussion on the budget change. Following the cessation of Russian gas supplies to the Netherlands on 31 May, you reiterated that the EU Energy Purchase Platform should be established as soon as possible for the co-purchase. Therefore, a price cap would actually be used as a price cap because the group purchase would then be made once that ceiling has been reached. The Belgian proposal would also provide a fallback in the light of gas supply and would also have an impact on the electricity price, while maintaining the principle of marginal pricing. In the last few months, despite the reality of the European market model of free pricing, Belgium has nevertheless advocated the introduction of price regulation as an emergency measure or measure, and also as a structural measure to remove the volatility of gas prices from the market. I do not know how you evaluate the conclusions of the European Council. I quote: 'The European Council invites the European Commission to work together with our international partners to explore how to curb rising energy prices, including the feasibility of introducing temporary import price ceilings'. I found that rather vaguely formulated, contrary to the triumphal messages the Prime Minister unwrapped in the light of that passage. We may be in the political field, but I found the contrast in this one striking. The market model is strongly defended by ACER, on the indication, of course, of the European regulators, as our own regulator, the CREG. We have been able to establish that here in the two meetings on marginal pricing ourselves. Can you explain the proposal from the CREG, apparently put forward by the Belgian Government at the European Council of Ministers? What is the Minister's view on conclusion 27 a - 2nd point of the European Council, in particular on the possible introduction of temporary ceilings on gas import prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u27	On 30 and 31 May, the Minister held a European summit, at which work began at the meeting on 24 and 25 March. Topics covered include security and diversification of energy sources and supply routes, deployment of renewable energies, the RePowerEU strategy and optimisation of the electricity market. In general, can we get your comment, on the one hand, on the positions defended by our country at this meeting and, on the other, on the decisions taken? Secondly, the report of the meeting's conclusions tells us that "the European Council invites the Commission, together with our international partners, also to study ways to influence the rise in energy prices, including the possibility of introducing temporary ceilings for import prices, where appropriate". Could we learn more about this? We know, moreover, that on 24 and 25 March the Council and the Commission were asked to discuss with stakeholders "as a matter of urgency" to analyse the proposals raised by the Member States - among which we find the cap on gas prices in the wholesale market. Can you inform us of the progress of the discussions on these proposals? Has a guideline been set? Was there any mention of a cap on the price of gas? As well as the duration of its application? Under what conditions would this ceiling be determined? In addition, could we learn more about the changes in the electricity market currently under consideration? In this context, I would like your feedback on the ACER report. Finally, do you have any information on the use of RePowerEU funds to support investments, reforms and innovation? To what extent will the objective of building 17.5 GW of electrolyzers by 2025 promote the deployment of this energy vector in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the ACER report and the 13 no-regret measures proposed. I particularly support the finding that market integration within the EU is necessary to decarbonise the electricity sector at the lowest cost. In addition, this integration enhances security of supply, thanks to which neighbouring countries can supply electricity to each other when the situation so requires. I called on the European Commission to examine the possibility of developing a support mechanism at European level to develop a hydrogen market and accelerate the licensing process of offshore wind energy in the North Sea. I regret that the marginal price model, which leads to rising gas prices leading to rising electricity prices and overprofits, was not tested against alternatives. As far as the price ceiling is concerned, however, I have already mentioned this on several occasions in the REPowerEU Plan, which continues to work on ACER's conclusions, i.e. while maintaining the current market model, but with refinements that are appropriate and with support for the most vulnerable families. According to ACER, price caps remain a possible option as a national measure, but the possible impact on the price signal is highlighted. ACER itself therefore prefers less market-distorting measures. However, we continue to advocate the introduction of a price cap, rather than national measures, which could lead to internal EU competition. As I explained in detail earlier today, we see the creation of the EU Energy Platform as a very good instrument for this. The negotiations are ongoing. You referred to the Council conclusions of 25 March, Mr Ravyts. There's what it says in there. It was just very important to us. I understand your question, because in the Council conclusions it is very conditional, but both the Prime Minister and I were very satisfied with it, because the negotiations are now underway. Belgium has started out as a country with little traction on this theme. There are Member States which, in fact, are also the European Commission itself, which are not at all warm to the idea. That explains our enthusiasm, but I also understand you, Mr Ravyts. In any case, the negotiations are ongoing. Let me look at the timing of the measures. (...) Within the REPowerEU plan, there are a number of measures to reduce prices, ensure security of supply and achieve climate objectives. As regards the decoupling of gas and electricity prices, I refer to what I said earlier. We ask ACER to at least compare the current market model, because there is a de facto decoupling of the Iberian Peninsula Spain and Portugal. They are, of course, in a special situation, because they are very limited in connection with the rest of the European Union. In terms of energy, therefore, they actually form a peninsula, but what has been achieved if we stick to its marginal price model so hard, which means that certain zones in the market no longer participate? In the beginning, I said that integration is necessary for me to decarbonise. Market integration, over vectors, electricity and gas, is really important to me too. In response to questions posed by Mr. Ben Achour on the Council of 30 and 31 May, I must refer to the Prime Minister, because he was present. I have, like you, taken note of this decision of the European Council. The initiative is now up to the European Commission to draw up a proposal. The ACER report concludes that the electricity market, within the framework of the rules, is functioning normally and therefore there is no market distortion per se. However, the ACER report does not state the price level. The latter is a question of a political and social nature. The Commission has therefore presented a comprehensive set of measures and actions aimed at rapidly reducing our dependence on Russian fossil fuels, accelerating the ecological transition and increasing the resilience of the European Union's energy system. The plan is based on three pillars: energy savings, renewable energy and diversification of our energy supply. The analysis is under way. The detailed legislative proposals will each be communicated by the European Commission to the Council and the European Parliament. Once the details are known, a Belgian position can also be established. As regards the financing of the plan, it is striking that the European Commission proposes to auction funds from the market stability reserve of the quota trading system, in addition to reallocating existing funds. This proposal faces many issues and concerns due to its impact on the climate. In addition to extensive monitoring of environmental integrity, there are also financial issues. The announcement had a downward impact on the prices of quota trading systems, which led Belgium and other Member States to generate less auction revenues. We must therefore ensure that this does not become a zero-sum game. Mr Ravyts, there is no proposal from the CREG on the introduction of a levy on Norwegian gas, or at least I have not received a proposal under that title.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u29	Madam Minister, it doesn't happen often, but I can broadly agree with the answer you have just given. So I can keep my reply brief. I am sorry, along with you, that there is no alternative to the marginal price model that underpins the whole energy crisis and is more fundamental to questioning these market mechanisms. We, too, are in favour of an alternative to this. Spain and Portugal are indeed relatively isolated from the rest of Europe in terms of interconnection. We are in favour of a European price ceiling, and I hope that this will be progressed. We are therefore counting on you to push ahead with the necessary speed, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u30	Thank you, Madam Minister, for understanding me about the passage in the list of the various conclusions of the European Council. I am pleased that we are at least on our way to a refinement of the market model. That is a good thing, and we shall see what the European Commission comes up with around these temporary ceilings on import prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will expect what will come out of the Commission in terms of proposal. I have a fear a priori, that I will miss out on the great lessons of the crisis and not question the springs of the great market paradigms in depth enough. The covid crisis, the Ukrainian crisis and the energy price crisis must all prompt us to question certain fundamentals that have been leading us for almost 40 years. I hope that there will be enough visionary voices at European level to guide us in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament 55027533C by Mrs Dierick is postponed. There are still a lot of questions on the agenda. You can refer to your written question. You may assume that your question has already been answered, but you may also ask the question. Since we want to stop at 5 p.m., you might want to make a selection of what you want to see answered as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u33	Mr President, for those who follow us through streaming, I think it is important to say what we are talking about, otherwise it is strange. I should therefore like to mention that this question was tabled on 29 April. It would be good if the Minister would come to our committee a little more often, as there are always topical questions about energy. Now my question is no longer so topical. For example, Minister Vandenbroucke comes to the Health Committee every week. Madam Minister, in Le Soir of 28 April, we read that Mr De Croo, our Prime Minister, was in favour of extending the extended social tariff and reducing VAT on energy. So that means both electricity and gas. In retrospect, his party, Open Vld, said that it is in favour of extending that reduction for electricity, but not for gas. Anyway, the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister, and Open Vld is Open Vld. Both the extended social tariff and the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas expire at the end of September. For the time being, the official communication of the government says that there will be an evaluation of the measures first, in September. My question is simply: is the extension of the VAT reduction on energy and/or the extended social tariff already on the government's table? I could also ask what there is actually to evaluate. Energy is a basic requirement after all. I think we agree on that. The reduction in VAT on energy and the extended social tariff can therefore best be permanent. What other measures does the government intend to take to make the energy bill affordable again?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u34	Of course, we have already taken several major measures to keep the energy bill affordable. We have already discussed this on several occasions. I am, of course, pleased that the Prime Minister supports the extension of the VAT reduction and the extended social tariff. There are all kinds of proposals on the table. I will not anticipate that. I have just indicated how I position myself when it comes to the social tariff. The government must do what the government is good at, deciding around the table, with the necessary support of our institutions, such as the CREG and the National Bank, and thus agree on the right measures. The month of June is used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u35	Madam Minister, a few months ago we adopted an important bill on the second part of the energy standard, the annual review in the form of the benchmark study by the CREG. That had to be done by 15 May, and it has been done. There are a number of conclusions that are not surprising: "Belgian families and companies connected to low voltage pay a high electricity bill compared to neighbouring countries, just like in previous years. Unlike last year, Belgian families pay a relatively high natural gas bill compared to our neighbouring countries." There are some other conclusions, but none of them are surprising. By 1 July at the latest, the CREG must deliver an opinion to the government indicating whether it is necessary to take new measures on the invoice. This opinion would be submitted in advance to the Consultative Council of the CREG and the Central Business Council. Perhaps, and hopefully, this will be part of the budget negotiations for 2023. That's what I'm assuming. You have always said that excise duty reform is a control button so that it can be modulated and more flexible. Can you give us an update on the study that has been carried out in the meantime? What is your response to the conclusions communicated by the CREG? Has the study already been submitted to the CREG Advisory Council and to the Central Business Council? I seem to recall that the CREG considered the deadline of 1 July to be rather tight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u36	Madam Minister, it concerns the study published on 13 May by FORBEG, the umbrella of Belgian energy regulators. It was a first evaluation under the energy standard. The study compares the energy bill of our families and companies with that of our neighbouring countries. This shows that the energy bill for households for both electricity and natural gas is higher in Belgium than in neighbouring countries. The study compared the prices of January 2022. A remarkable conclusion from the study is that price regulation is the only way to control the energy bill. For example, both France and the United Kingdom managed to significantly reduce price increases for families. The study concludes that government intervention results in: the increase in wholesale prices is barely passed on to households. We ask that energy prices be frozen here too. What conclusions do you draw from the study under the energy standard? Will you take additional measures to reduce the energy bill of families or companies? The Energy Standards Act allows you to take additional measures with the results of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u37	Of course, the law allows me to do that, I made them myself, and we wrote them in for a reason. Because we wanted an instrument. What we have written in the law goes a lot further than what is at stake in the various regions. We have created the energy standard not only for companies but also for families and the evaluation not only for competitiveness but also for purchasing power. Indeed, I received the comparative study, commissioned by the regulator, on the date we registered in the law, namely 15 May. The study deals in detail with the energy bill of the various consumers in the three regions, with the main message that as a federal government we are doing a lot for vulnerable families. They are nowhere better protected from the effects of price increases than in Belgium. We are also doing a lot of work for the other families, with a positive effect. The VAT reduction to 6% has a real impact on the Belgian purchasing power position, although this is not yet visible in the data of the study as it is a photograph of the month of January. For industry, we are also doing everything in our power, for example by reforming excise duties. The energy standard also ensures that companies applying energy-intensive processes can benefit from exemptions. This reduces the federal share of companies. In addition, there will be a royal decree setting out the parameters for the study mentioned earlier. As you know, the law implementing this provision dates from 28 February 2022, but I have already said in this committee that we want to start that regime immediately in the first year. So it's not because there's no KB yet that we won't use the study. The start-up took place in January, in collaboration with the regulator and the consultant. The later KB could therefore no longer change this year's working method. Any changes would not be possible until next year. On 1 July I expect the study of the regulator, which can propose additional measures if necessary. I do not want to anticipate this, because I think it is important that the procedure as we have incorporated it into the law and as you have approved it should go through the opinions of the CREG Advisory Council and the CRB Opinion in its entirety. Based on that, we'll position ourselves. I know the timetable is ambitious. Both the CREG and the CRB and the Advisory Council have pointed out to me that it is an ambitious timing, but I would remind you that we are having budgetary discussions in October and that we are going to be able to include the input and proposals we are getting in those discussions, not only during the period when I am Minister, but also for the Energy Ministers who will come after me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. The deadline of July 1 has to be met. You are right to say that the CREG recognizes, before the January snapshot, that the least wealthy sections of the population are indeed well protected. That targeted policy is a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u39	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I think we're pretty proactive. I was convinced that there was another opinion from the CREG. We will wait for that and see what you will do with it. We'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u40	Mr President, Mr Loones, at the end of March the CREG brought me an update of the estimates of the repartition contributions for the years 2022 to 2025, namely EUR 1,192 to 1,346 billion. These are estimates which, of course, depend on how many nuclear power plants will run during that period. This is the repartition contribution after degressivity, both the share of Engie and that of EDF-Luminus. It is therefore more than EUR 1.2 billion for a four-year period. These figures relate to the previous year of operation. For comparison, the actual nuclear interest received for the period 2010-2021, i.e. for the operating period 2009-2020, amounts to EUR 3,065.9 million. The provisions on nuclear interest and repartition contributions have been amended at several times, by amendments to the Law of 11 April 2003, which is the law on commissions, the SYNATOM Act. The previous government extended the Tihange 1 and Objectives 1 and 2 nuclear power stations by 10 years. She made an agreement with Engie about that. The result is that these reactors will no longer be included in the calculation of the global repartition contribution. The contribution of these reactors is limited to around EUR 20 million per year. This is mainly about Objectives 1 and 2, because, as I said earlier, Tihange 1 still has a negative result as a result of investment costs and transferred losses. The remaining repartition contribution therefore covers only the reactors Objectives 3 and 4 and Tihange 2 and 3. At the same time, in recent years, for various reasons, in particular the cessation of technical problems, work has been limited in recent years, with the exception of last year, and low market prices. This led to lower nuclear interest rates. We therefore expect higher nuclear interest rates over the next few years, but it could have been much higher without the conventions concluded by the previous government. You also remember that a large dividend was paid to the shareholders. That, of course, reflects what I said earlier. I said earlier that it remained low because of shutdown and low market prices. Now there was a big dividend, which was exceptional because of the height. This, of course, had to do with the high availability and with the higher prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. My question was really a question of numbers, initially put to the attention of Secretary of State De Bleeker, with whom we often have the habit of talking about figures in the Finance Committee. I did not miss the concrete assessment of the Prime Minister's statement. The Prime Minister spoke quite clearly on the radio about the fact that we would see a budgetary impact this year. His interview was also part of the budgetary control of 2022. That is why I tabled my question to Mrs De Bleeker. I am mainly looking for what we can expect this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u42	Mr Loones, those figures exist, but for this year it is limited anyway. The impact is now limited, because it's always about the year before. Last year there were only high prices in the last quarter. Prices did not start to rise until October 2021. The real big impact, this year running, we will not see until next year. Those numbers are available, but I don't have them right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u43	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I believe that these figures can be useful for the budget debate that we will have in the coming weeks. I understand that they are somewhat at odds with the Prime Minister's statement: 'This will be hundreds of millions higher than in a normal year'. But I'll wait and see the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u44	Mr Loones, I think you should excuse the Prime Minister in a way. Of course, he's watching the overview. Those hundreds of millions will be over the coming years. If your question is about the impact here and now, you should know that it's always about the year before, so it's just about the last two quarters of last year. We'll see that crescendo go. Another nuance, as I said earlier, is that it is now an estimate, on the basis of assumptions, of actual availability and real prices. Apart from that, I think we can make a pretty good assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u45	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'd like to apologize to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u46	Madam Secretary, the excursion and study work we could do with the Belgian Offshore Platform was very interesting. I've been able to pick up a number of things there. It was a pity that Parliament's delegation was rather vague, but there will undoubtedly still be opportunities. The issue raised there is also the issue of the insurance sector, namely that there are currently insufficient resources and supply to go to full cover, which would increase insurance costs for offshore windmills. Can you outline this problem? Is this an effective focus on the sector? What are the possibilities of responding to this at European level or within your own competence? Is it necessary to provide an answer to that? Can parallels be drawn with other energy sectors? I'm sure you know which one I'm talking about. Is it your opinion that this is merely a temporary issue, which is the result of the growth of the sector, which will continue for a while, or is this a fundamental story to which we must respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u47	The delegation was hearty, but the trip was stormy. Maybe that's right or inversely proportional. I do a lot of field visits myself, because I always pick things up from there.This theme may not have been on the radar, but it does deserve to be picked up. There are indeed particular challenges for the insurance sector. On the one hand, sufficient liquidity should be found in the insurance providers market to monitor the strong growth of wind at sea. The wind sector at sea has a strong rise worldwide with parallel demand for insurance cover. On the other hand, there is also an increase in the number of claims, partly due to the increasing number of operational parks, but also to the number of parks under development. Both elements result in both the level of cover and the cost being under pressure. For the current parks, costs have increased considerably over a number of years. Of course, insurance is on the private market. You ask for parallels with other sectors where no insurance can be obtained because of the nature of the operation. The wind at sea cannot, unlike, for example, the nuclear sector, benefit from a custom-made regulated and limited liability or insurance, because nuclear energy entails risks that make them essentially uninsurable. The wind at sea therefore does not need special legislation on the limitation of liability and the organisation of insurance, such as the regime that has been in the nuclear sector for decades. In the context of the energy crisis now, there are particular challenges for traders and energy suppliers for their collaterals for hedging. This is not strictly an insurance issue, but rather a financial one. However, these issues are of the same nature. Insurance is the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs, but this does not prevent us from having an exchange of views. The further intensive development of offshore wind farms is both an opportunity and a challenge for insurers. In the case of faster growth of demand relative to supply, this will have an impact on the price. This also happens when damage cases occur in the sector that typically have a major cost impact. It follows from the survey that the sector is considering other ways of reducing or insuring the risk, as is common in other sectors. We should also discuss this with the insurance sector. In the context of nuclear liability, we have also talked extensively with the insurance sector. They then indicated where, among other things, their red line and their insurability lie. Especially in the context of the energy transition, such investment is needed in the coming years. That's about billions. Then there is a proper discussion, not only with the insurance sector, but also with the financiers, i.e. the banks. For example, in the case of project financing, banks should not finance more than seven years. This will put pressure on the support mechanism that is being developed or not. We've seen those seven years at the CRM. Everyone comes to ask for regulated income for a longer period. The energy transition is therefore not an isolated matter for governments and people who make investments. It is also a matter for the insurers and investors of these financings. These two sectors have a very strong influence and there may be more debate, exchange and transparency. This may help us to find the right solution. Parliament has already organised a joint finance committee on the pricing model. I do not know exactly how far we are on that front, but that is very relevant. I have spoken on several occasions about the price model, and you have certainly sensed that I do not follow the strict doctrine of the European Commission. The energy transition, together with the Committee on Economics, for example when it comes to financing and insurance, could inspire Parliament or the government to take legislative initiatives to give the subject a little more body.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Above all, I think we need to see how it evolves. I have the impression that the installation of offshore wind turbines will go exponentially worldwide, but at the same time the complexity of these projects may also increase to the same extent. The first projects that were realized everywhere were near shore, actually in relatively simple places. I am now underestimating the complexity of such a simple project. It will be more difficult and it will weigh on the financing sector to finance all this. If there is still a feedback of the price to pay the insurance, it may be a heavy brake. After a period in which it became increasingly cheaper, it carries the risk that it might go the other way. Then we will also come up with our own financing and support system for offshore windmills in a different scenario, where we might be able to do something, or should be able to do something, with the European partners to move forward. We take the suggestion to discuss this with specialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u49	I fully agree on the complexity: not only near shore of far shore, but the floating and, in our own zone, the density that has an immediate impact on funding and perhaps insurance. Why is that important? If we want to develop the entire potential of the North Sea, also European, we must be able to make the most of it, with increased complexity. That is why I believe that the responsibility of the financial sector and of the insurance sector should be a little higher and more prominent on the radar. If the government and the developers take risks, we can also talk about the risks that insurers and financiers take. Personally, I think they're getting off easy. We're deviating, but it's interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u50	I get your point. However, in the past, the financial sector has dealt with risks a little differently from what we would do today. That's what makes it difficult. In the meantime, it was clear to me that this was a complex fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u51	I think that the EIB's perspective is also very interesting in this, because they can simply be steered by it, in the guidance they give. For example, we have now decided that citizens should be able to participate in funding. Direct participation, not just indirect participation. That also has a consequence for the risks. Banks or investment companies are also positioned differently in this respect. Some people really don't want to do it, while others say:bring it on, we want to look at it. It is a complex issue, but we can also do this with the Finance Committee. Then we have a trilateral commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u52	Mr President, there are still a lot of questions on the agenda. The Minister will be back in three weeks, but I would ask the Minister to come to the committee once more to make a catch-up. Otherwise, the current value will pass us by. I see the Minister nodding. It is up to you to deal with that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic808x.u53	I'll take care of that with the secretariat. I am assuming that the topicality of the questions will increase with time alone.
