ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u1	As you know, the FPS Finance is working on a new Infrastructure Plan for 2024, the last one dating back to 2018. It seems that the latter plans to close several offices all over Belgium again, but mostly in Wallonia. Given the questions in Parliament today, you can imagine that this is a reaction. It can be understood, of course, that telework created as a result of the pandemic and the increasingly digitalization of our society are having an impact. But we still have to keep in mind that we are a public service. We must therefore be efficient in the missions that we must render to all our citizens. Thus, a whole series of criteria must be taken into account in this plan, such as access to public transport, the digital divide, the well-being of staff – even within the FPS Finances, not all have the possibility to do telework, etc. It really seems to me that the FPS Finance must take into account all these elements – and not just the good will of the municipalities and CPAS – in order to remedy its own shortcomings. I think it's really showing a lack of knowledge of the reality of communal agents on the ground. For example, in my area, Thuin's offices are being closed. Imagine, for example, that your grandmother wants to get to Charleroi – 25 minutes by car or an hour by train, at the rate of one train per hour – or to Chimay – 40 minutes by car or 1 hour by public transport. We don't want that for our grandparents, who sometimes find themselves alone because they're widowed and sometimes they don't have children or grandchildren. They must take 1:20 a.m. by public transit to get information from the Ministry of Finance. That's a problem. Some buildings become obsolete or too large. The consequences and responsibilities can be drawn from this, but it is precisely an opportunity to create partnerships with local authorities. I think they can certainly be established to find better places and more effective collaborations. However, it is not clear from this plan. Can you confirm to me that the Infrastructure 2024 plan projects many new closures? Why would they be more important in Wallonia than in Flanders? Have criteria such as access to public transport or the digital divide been taken into account in this plan? Should further closures be expected in the future, or should all public services be closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u2	Minister, La Louvière's collection office seems to be forced to close its doors soon. As my colleague has said right now, however, recovery is a delicate matter, which plays a social role for taxpayers in difficulty. This important role is probably more effective and humane when there is a certain proximity, beyond a telephone conversation. From now on, it seems that taxpayers will necessarily have to go to Mons or Tournai to apply to a collection service. It's not impossible from La Louvière, but it's not obvious. This requires patience and a certain amount of time, and travel several tens of kilometres, usually by car, to address a public service that often supports the most precarious. Do you confirm that this closure is well planned? If so, what is the expected timetable? Are further closures expected in the area? When making such a decision, can I encourage you to consider criteria such as access to public transport, particularly for older people or people with reduced mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u3	Minister, last February, the FPS Finance unveiled its new Horizon 2024 Infrastructure Plan, which plans to organize only three or four buildings per province for FPS Finance services. This de facto announces the closure of many buildings, in addition to damaging the proximity service. I thought this was a project, but when I took a field trip to the various locations concerned, I found that it was more than that and that, obviously, the fate was cast, in any case for a significant number of sites where the FPS Finance now provides a community service. Many trade union representatives, staff and citizens fear a reduction in the service offered to the Belgian taxpayer since this plan does not take into account a number of criteria, such as the digital divide, the specificities of each province, accessibility and parking problems in large centres and railway stations, the problem of teleworking - particularly with regard to the allowance for ergonomic equipment, etc. - as well as recurring computer and telephone problems at FPS Finance. All provinces are affected. I will take the example of my province, not only because it is mine, but above all because its case is particularly illustrative of the situation and the least we can say is that it does not give an acceptable result: from Comines-Warneton to Chimay, it is more than 160 km from north to south. For example, it is confirmed that in the centre of Mouscron, its heated building in the "Risquons Tout" district will be closed, officially announced by the SPF in 2024. Another building should also be closed in Tournai in 2029. A two-step relocation: first on Tournai, then on Mons. This means that if this plan is implemented as it is, many citizens will have to move to Tournai and then to Mons. Take Mons or Comens-Warneton-Mons, that gives us distances that are not acceptable. It's even worse when it comes to public transport than taking a car. You will surely respond to this that FPS Finance services are becoming more and more accessible online and you are right. At the same time, many citizens need direct contact with the administration, especially the elderly, who are often victims of the digital divide that affects part of our society. These people are also unable to travel and travel long distances, especially since they cannot be travelled by public transport easily for at least a number of lines and municipalities (cf. The Boots of Chimay or the region of Thuin, or even La Louvière). Many people need assistance at the time of the tax return. I see in the various offices I have just mentioned, and it is the same in the other provinces that at the time of tax returns, long lines are formed to obtain help, indicating that, while digitalisation is largely on the way, it is not accessible or possible for a number of citizens and the crucial role of proximity remains paramount. Other missions include the collection of tax debts. When a citizen or even a company is liable for such a debt, it is not only once that he or she has to go to the FPS Finance offices, since the comings and goings follow one another. Therefore, this plan is widely criticized from the point of view of the citizen, both in terms of maintaining a community service and of the universally accessible nature of a quality public service. In addition to the impact on citizens and businesses, mention should be made of the impact on civil servants. Clearly, according to their representatives, more than 14,000 officers will be directly or indirectly affected by these changes. Moreover, the latter still do not know their place of administrative residence. They are particularly bitter, Minister, because no official or oral communication was sent to them, except for a PowerPoint that they had received by email. Let us acknowledge that in terms of human resources management, this is frankly not correct. Once this finding has been made, several questions arise. First of all, Minister, after hearing from the PS members of the majority, I do not understand very well why they implied that this was simply a FPS Finance project. Given the formal decisions that have been announced, I believe that this is not a project, but a decision that is clearly approved by your government. Of course, I would like you to confirm that this is a final draft. In any case, we wonder what still remains as a possible space to make it evolve. Is the decision concerning the offices concerned, of which we can read online, final? What about thinking about mobility? Has the plan taken this dimension into account? Has there been any reflection on a maximum distance between the establishment of the future centres and the respective homes of the citizens concerned? Is it not fundamental to maintain a minimum accessibility of FPS Finance facilities in the province? If the government's political choice does not take this into account, the big losers will obviously be the citizens. Is it not essential to maintain a regular service for the different municipalities and regions? For example, a weekly permanence could be considered in partnership with local authorities, but also with some public service buildings. It should also be possible to maintain, during the period when tax returns are to be completed, a non-regular but daily permanence. Is this part being studied by the FPS Finances? Is it not fundamental that the government should be able to review and adapt the FPS Finance Plan? What are the alternative reflections for the various municipalities, provinces and boroughs concerned? With regard to the impact on civil servants, had the consequences of this choice been assessed for those working in those places? What are the geographic areas where FPS Finance officials will be most affected by this plan? Has well-being been taken into account, since this choice also implies an issue of keeping public servants at work, but also recruitment that is not always easy? What about places of administrative residence? Are you not afraid of losing some public servants or struggling to recruit new ones? The official can become a rare commodity. In this area, alternative employment proposals may also exist. Finally, a question of an ethical nature on the tax side: is it normal for citizens to see the reduction of basic tax services, to which they contribute financially like everyone else? All citizens living in rural or semi-rural areas will be potentially affected by the government's strategy and the implementation of this plan. I am already calling for a complete review of this plan to maintain a sufficient proximity service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u4	Minister, I am reminded that a threat of closure would be on La Louvière's collection services. This would of course be a very bad intention, given the importance that recovery is for people in financial difficulty, in search of an arrangement to settle their tax debts. Moreover, for several years, local FPS Finance offices have been closed in tens or hundreds. The local public service is increasingly being undermined. The Central Region - which has some 250,000 inhabitants - has not been spared, nor have the other regions! As a first step, the offices of the communes around La Louvière were closed and concentrated in La Louvière. And since then, we've been attacking the very offices of La Louvière, since we want to close them to relocate them to Mons or Charleroi. I guess one day we're gonna close Mons and Charleroi to concentrate everything in Brussels. Minister, can you reassure me that this threat of closure is not justified? If not, how do you justify this umpteenth attack on a local public service? Is the FPS Finance following a national closure plan? In that case, can you provide me with a copy of the plan? What about the other services of the FPS Finances in La Louvière and the building that houses them at rue Boucquéau? Are they also in the collimator or can you guarantee their sustainability?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u5	Does anyone else want to speak in this topical debate? As no one is asking to speak, I pass the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the FPS Finance is aware that not all citizens have access to digital tools. That's why my administration launched a virtual agent pilot project. If successful, it will allow a citizen to contact a FPS Finance employee from a screen that could be installed in locations where FPS Finance is no longer present. Cooperation with logical partners, such as the municipal, provincial or regional authorities, is planned. Since the health crisis, the model has changed again. The teleworking staff are now structurally working and the presence in the office is in a free fall. As for citizens, it should be noted that the last two Tax-on-web campaigns were conducted by telephone, to the greatest satisfaction of those concerned. These telephone appointments allow citizens to avoid moving and queued in front of an office, sometimes for several hours. This year, it is again possible to get a physical appointment if the tax file cannot be settled by telephone, which is possible in 99% of cases. While the focus is on digital channels and correspondence, our services must also remain accessible to those without digital tools and skills. We therefore prefer automatic services where the citizen has no steps to take. If this is not possible, we offer alternative service channels that help non-digital citizens to carry out their administrative tasks. In this sense, digital channels are in fact privileged, making many movements superfluous. However, if it is not possible to follow a procedure by digital means, it is possible to contact the FPS Finance by telephone - which means that a physical visit is not necessary either. My administration has developed the Infrastructure Plan 2024, in which the closures already decided as well as the new ones are recorded. It was presented to trade unions on 9 February and 26 April. Staff were also informed of this. Of course, a union consultation will be organised for each move, as it should be. The cleaning staff and Fedorest will receive a proposal to amend their employment contract for their workplace. Administrative staff will, in principle, follow their service. Under certain conditions, a more appropriate procedure will be provided for, in accordance with the application of Protocol 100 of 13 June 2017. It is planned to close the offices of La Louvière and Mouscron, as the lease contract expires on 31 December 2024. Also in Hainaut, Thuin's office will also close its doors in 2023. The location did not constitute a parameter, several criteria were adopted uniformly throughout the territory. These include, for example, underoccupation, term of lease, condition of buildings, etc. The result is that most of the buildings preserved have a very good service because they are located in larger cities. They are therefore more easily accessible via public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. So you confirm the continued closure of several buildings - too large or in poor condition - which depends on the finances of your department. Nevertheless, I have heard little of you invoking the interests of the citizen. It is a little too bad, even if, as you say and it is true, your department is making a great deal of effort to try to avoid the lines and answer the questions of our fellow citizens. Telephone communication and Tax-on-web are working well, indeed. We were able to check it out. As far as your virtual agent pilot project is concerned, you understand that we will come back to question you to make sure it works, since it is brand new. I would also point out that, if you have no choice but to close some buildings, the municipalities still have to replace them - as is always the case, when the federal government puts an end to something. It would therefore be wise for you to take a proactive approach at last. It is already in progress for pensions: in each municipality, one spends an hour or two after making an appointment. This method has proved effective and could be further developed, because human contact will never be replaced by a virtual screen. When there is no appointment, the agents must not move. They knew it 15 days before. Increasingly, there is talk about the administration's one-stop shops. Your colleague did not realize that a whole series of stations would still be closed. You should talk to him to bring all these services together in the same places where, in the long run, federal agents could be found who could open a one-stop shop to address several issues. You say it's always possible to make an appointment over the phone. Minister, make sure that it is many people who respond and not like in the banks where after ten minutes we are told that "all our employees are busy; don't hesitate to call back in half an hour" or "just wait a little while, maybe we'll answer you". I could do the test in committee, but no luck, it takes place this afternoon when the service of La Louvière is only open in the morning. Their number is 02/572 57 57. I invite you to test this number tomorrow to see if you are answered quickly or not. It is also a question of means. If all our agents are on telework and are not equipped at home to respond regularly, the problem may be deferred to something else. That doesn't seem very correct to me. I will note that you are persevering with the aim of closing points in the FPS Finances. I urge you to think with the municipalities and the Union of Cities and Municipalities to find solutions to ensure that the FPS Finance still has physical contact with the citizens. It's important. Have you not answered my question as to whether there are more closures in Flanders or Wallonia? Without an answer, there is room for interpretation!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u8	I have clearly replied that the location of the offices is not a parameter taken into account, but different criteria have been uniform throughout the territory: underoccupations, lease durations and building conditions, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u9	Can we know how many in Flanders, how many in Wallonia and how many in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u10	I don't have the numbers with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u11	I'll come back to you with a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u12	You can always ask, of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can tell you that, like my colleague, I'm still a little hungry. We are very attached to public services. However, we realize that the more we move forward in time, the less the citizen, especially the most vulnerable, has the possibility of having human contact with them. For us, who are accustomed to digital technology, this does not pose any particular problems, but we must realize that in the real life of every day, a fringe of the population finds it extremely difficult to find itself there. It must be recognized that sometimes things are not clearly explained. The phone? You have to be able to reach someone. We need to test it. The important thing is that people who feel the need for it should not, in my opinion, do 50 km by train or by car or whatever means, to speak to a natural person. It is not up to us to judge whether they should be able to manage on the phone or digitally. We will therefore be very attentive, particularly to this project of agent, which would respond at one hour, via video conference, if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u14	Minister, is there digital? Yes. Does the possibility of a telephone appointment exist? Yes. You say services must remain accessible. So far, in words it's very good. But I see that as far as tax returns are concerned, the reality is different. All you have to do is go for a walk in the various offices. There may be differences between the provinces, but I tell you: every year, the situation is that of an appointment request. And it's not just tax returns. You are not saying anything about tax debt collection missions and you know very well that in these cases repeated appointments are absolutely necessary. The proximity aspect of the service, if we say we just have to do it over the phone, won't work, I'm sorry. The second point that concerns me in what you explain to us is the following. First, we decide to close. Then we're thinking maybe we're going to look on the government side, because parties of the majority say it's not right. We're doing things a little backwards. Is good governance not to say that it is no longer justified, particularly for the reasons you have invoked, to rent certain buildings in the long run, while determining, in a proactive and proactive way, what services one wants to continue to render, and how? You explained that there were a number of criteria. Hainaut is the largest province in our country: 160 kilometres from Comines-Warneton to Chimay. We're going to meet up with two or three locations across the province. We must have a high-quality public service, no matter where it is, for all citizens. I propose, through a motion of recommendation, to review your Horizon 2024 infrastructure plan. In order to maintain a community-based public service with accessibility, objectives must be set. A reasonable objective would be to say that there must be a service for every citizen within a radius of a maximum of half an hour by public transport, with a full tax permanence, in existing buildings or in municipal administrations, during periods of tax obligations, for example tax returns. The rest of the year, it is necessary to ensure a permanence of the FPS Finances per week. I find this request to be reasonable. This can change things for buildings that are now rented for no reason. This will also provide a high-quality public service wherever you live. The concept of a federal house would almost have to be brought in for all skills, not just finance. An extremely interesting project could be developed, but it must be done proactively and not first decide to close it down. Finally, Mr Minister, I invite you to step up the dialogue with the representatives of the staff concerned in a constructive dynamic, with a human resources policy that can take into account the various aspects of teleworking and additional travel that will be generated by this plan. Madam Chair, I move a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u15	Minister, in any case, I find no shame in your leadership, since you clearly state that this is a general plan to close public utilities buildings. You're trying to make it look like it's in the interests of citizens, and even public servants. It is true that digitalisation exists, but telework or telecommunications are not suitable for certain people or public services. Similarly, if their employees telework, they do not do so all the time, as it is also necessary for them to meet their colleagues. Finally, when we look at the reasons you use to justify the closure at La Louvière, we find that you simply justify it by the end of the lease. In short, we break all public services: post offices, stations, banking agencies – which are, it is true, less and less public. You add that the offices will be grouped in the cities, to be more easily accessible by public transport. But this government also dismantles them. Let us take the case of La Louvière, the inhabitants of Binche deprived of offices cannot go there, for lack of station. There are still trains, but no train station! The dismantling of community-based public services is therefore general. This is particularly serious. We will therefore concentrate everything in the cities, where the cars will flow, with the result more plugs and pollution. Your only logic is budget. I hope that the partners on the left of the Vivaldi will react and oppose this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u16	The President: In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, - having regard to the Horizon 2024 Infrastructure Plan, announced in February 2022 by the FPS Finances; - in view of the impact this plan could have on the citizen, in terms of proximity and services to the population; - in view of the environmental consequences which the adoption of this plan could cause, considering the increased displacement of citizens which it would cause; - in view of the particular population groups which will be affected by the implementation of this plan, the latter still need direct contact with the administration; - in view of the lack of equity caused by this plan, considering that some citizens will see the basic tax services to which they contribute financially like everyone else, especially in rural areas; - in view of the significant direct or indirect consequences which the plan will have for 14,000 agents, either directly or indirectly; - having regard to the place of administrative residence which is not yet determined for these officials; asks the government - to review its Horizon 2024 Infrastructure Plan to maintain a local public service with access to FPS Finance services within a time limit of up to half an hour, by public transport, around the place of residence of each citizen; - to ensure in the future a complete tax permanence on the premises currently in operation, during periods of tax obligations (tax returns); - to provide a constant and regular service to the citizens for the same places throughout the year, in conjunction with the municipalities concerned, via, for example, a weekly FPS Finance service; - to undertake rapid consultation with the representatives of the staff concerned and to deploy a human resources policy involving teleworking and taking into account the additional travel generated by this plan." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, - having regard to the Horizon 2024 Infrastructure Plan announced by the FPS Finance in February 2022; - having regard to the possible impact of that plan on citizens as regards the proximity of services and the provision of services to the public, - taking into account the potential environmental impacts resulting from the adoption of that plan, as this would mean that citizens would have to travel longer distances; - having regard to the specific population groups affected by the implementation of that plan, as they still need direct contact with the administration; - in view of the lack of fairness resulting from that plan, because the provision of basic tax services for certain citizens, particularly in rural areas, will be reduced, while paying for it, like all other citizens; - having regard to the significant direct or indirect impact of the plan on 14,000 employees; - having regard to the fact that the administrative place of employment for those officials has not yet been determined, asks the government - revise the Horizon 2024 Infrastructure Plan to maintain a local public service where FPS Finance services can be reached within a maximum of half an hour by public transport from each citizen's place of residence; - in future, to ensure full tax seats in the places where they are currently held, during the periods provided for in order to fulfil tax obligations (tax return); - to provide regular and regular services to citizens throughout the year for the same places, in consultation with the municipalities concerned, e.g. by organising a FPS Finance Sitting Day each week; - to consult the representatives of the staff concerned in the short term and to set up a human resource policy in which telework is possible and the additional movements resulting from that plan are also taken into account." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Nahima Lanjri. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u17	Minister, you may not know because you can call on a car with a driver, but all prices at the pump now amount to more than EUR 2. Gasoline 95, for example, broke all the records this week, because for the first time it also cost more than 2 euros per litre. A year ago, the price of petrol was only EUR 1.5 per litre. A full tank of about 60 litres has therefore become about 30 euros more expensive. A small half of these 2 euros still consist of costs, contributions, excise duties and VAT. What are you going to do about this, Minister? Remember that in October last year, when we presented the government statement in Parliament, we were the first to ask questions to the leader of your group, CD&V, to know what the government would do about the prices at the pump. Week after week, month after month, we continued to ask the ministers responsible, including you, in Parliament what would eventually be done about pump prices. In the meantime, a first reduction in excise duty was introduced. I do say a first reduction in excise duty, because it does not stop there for the Flemish interest. Our departments take action throughout Flanders at the petrol pumps to ask for the support of the population. That support is massive. Prices have increased further, so it is time for a second reduction in excise duties. We have tabled, among other things, a legislative proposal in Parliament, which has already been discussed in this committee. What do we want to do in concrete terms? A first measure that could be taken is what the German Government has done. It has decided to temporarily reduce all excise duties and thus the prices of diesel and petrol to the European minimum. Mr Minister, in Belgium the diesel price has already risen again to the level before the excise duty reduction. Your measure was actually wiped out after a week in terms of diesel. What is the government going to do to reduce the price of the pump sustainably and structurally? There is also a risk of a shortage of diesel. Europe has decided, among other things, to stop importing oil products from Russia. What is the government going to do to tackle further price increases through diesel and petrol shortages? Last but not least, the reduction in excise duties also has an effect on the price of the shopping cart. After all, reductions in excise duties do nothing for transport companies. What will the government do to support our transport sector and also to reduce the price of our shopping cart? After all, there is a domino effect. Due to the rising prices of diesel and petrol, the price of our shopping cart will eventually rise. Minister, we look forward to your answer and will not fail to question you regularly on this subject in the coming weeks. We insist that after the first reduction of excise duties the current government makes an additional exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u18	Mrs. Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u19	Minister, are you actually pleased with the measure to reduce the excise duty by 17 cents that you took a few weeks ago? For six months now, we have been debating the need for drastic measures. You said you'd enter the cliquet system and you'd unpack at 17 cents per litre less. After five days, the 17 cents had already been taken up by the increases in the market. As a minister, you cannot just stand by and watch prices go above EUR 2 and say that you can't do anything about it. Surely you cannot just leave people to the market, to supply and demand? Economic operators therefore earn billions at the cutting edge of the working class in Belgium. These are billions that go from our pockets to the pockets of multinational oil companies: 16 billion profits for TotalEnergys, 20 billion for Shell. We don't care. All this money goes into the pockets of these multinationals and you, as minister, say we can't do anything! I do not agree with that, minister! I don't agree! If I ask you today, it's to know what you're going to do. We started our campaign for price freezes. Yes, the state must intervene on the formation of prices for basic necessities such as diesel and gasoline. People don't use diesel and gasoline for recreation. They use them to go to work. You have to step in. A petition was launched to reduce this maximum price to €1.4. We've collected 90,000 signatures in a few weeks. That says something, Minister. In times when CD&V is asking questions about his identity, we may have to go further for the people, for the working class. That is where you come in as Minister of Finance, because it is about excise duties. Moreover, can you confirm the figure of 5.44 billion revenue from excise duties last year through the sale of petrol and diesel? What are you going to do to go further towards reducing excise duty? Can you tell me today that you will not go beyond the 17 cent reduction? If that's your decision, it's up to the people to know. Is there a reduction to the European minimum on the government table? Have you already contacted the European Commission to see if excise duties can be further reduced? After all, it is obvious that the 30 cents is not enough, it is about 60 cents per litre. That's where the money has to be taken. Finally, what about VAT of 21% on such an essential basic product? We are talking about a product of basic necessity, and the philosophical debate from a fiscal point of view between 6 and 21 %, which must still be possible in these times of crisis. Today, it is understood that a professor at the University of Liège talks about a price of 3 euros at the pump. Because, of course, all of this goes hand in hand with your embargo logic. I'm saying your logic of an embargo on Russian oil, because that won't stop you from buying Saudi oil. Saudi Arabia is known to be a haven of peace in the region. Let us think of the Yemeni people! But geostrategic questions are not for your commission. But your plan to move towards an embargo is clear. We're talking about an increase of up to 3 euros per litre. What are you going to do, Minister? Are you going to watch people die with such prices at the pump or are you going to take measures? I asked you three specific questions. I hope, Minister, that you will respond constructively. Indeed, I can tell you that the anger in the population is rising.- I suppose you feel it yourself - at Lunch Garden or elsewhere. It's going up everywhere. I hope, Minister, that you will take urgent action on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u20	First, congratulations to the Minister on the birth of his child. We're in the same boat for short nights. I hope that you still have enough energy to find solutions to this serious problem, that of pump prices and inflation in general. Indeed, the current debates on expensive living are going on week after week. Prices in shops, at the pump, energy bills make victims of extraordinary inflation which is there to last according to all the experts, and whose first ones are obviously workers, families, especially single-parent families, who are often obliged to take their car for their business trips, to drive children to school, to go to the doctor etc. All these people cling to each other as much as they can. Some, unfortunately, are already picking up. For thousands of people, it is the shift to a form of precariousness or even poverty. The transition to the pump is a moment of anxiety: more than 2 euros per litre of 95 petrol, it is obviously never seen. Here too, we have gone to beat record on record in the coming weeks and months. The situation is therefore no longer tenable. Of course, we have to act. The government has already taken responsibility for reducing the cost of gasoline on several occasions, but prices continue to rise as we are at the mercy of markets. Business profits are growing as fast as the burden on households. This is unacceptable. There are clearly crisis profitors to turn to. Belgium has one of the highest pump prices in Europe. There's also something to do at this level. There is, in any case, a matter for reflection. Those who believe that this price increase could be virtuous in terms of behaviour and especially in terms of climate impact are, in my view, cut off from reality. You have to realize that you have to put gasoline in your tank every day or every week to go to work. We must therefore also reflect on the convergence between social justice and climate justice. Minister, my questions are very simple. How can the government act to cushion the dizzying shock of pump prices? What are the leads you're going to put on the government table? Acting now is a necessity. As you know, for my group, budgetary considerations no longer have to face a situation that seems uncontrollable. I understand the need, often put forward by certain groups within the government, to control the budget, but I believe there is a form of logic that should be given priority, whatever the cost, given the seriousness of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u21	Mr Minister, with regard to the topical and urgent debate, let me say that I fully agree with the considerations put forward by Mr. Ben Achour. Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u22	I didn't want to interrupt you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u23	I do not want to prolong the debate unnecessarily by repeating what has just been said precisely and perfectly by the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u24	That's right, Madam President. I am obviously joining the ambient concert, especially as a relay for the citizens. Minister, in addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for people with moderate wages, who have no other option than to take their car and who, in part, have to go from home to home in the course of their professional activity, this represents exploding invoices. I can't imagine you're not aware of it or you're not sensitive to it. Three aspects are involved: the price, the kilometric allowance and the responsibility of the federated entities. But, in practice, for all these sectors with a very long list (nurses, home care workers, home helpers, the title service sector, the youth support sector, etc.)), the weeks pass and nothing moves. For many people, working costs them money. This has a significant impact on their income. They would make more if they stopped working! The situation is totally catastrophic for the households concerned and it is also very bad for the State. We know that there are additional receipts in the state caisses every time the price at the pump goes up. It seems to me fundamental that there should be additional action by the public authorities for those who need it cruelly, simply in order to be able to continue to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u25	Madam President, I believe that the situation has indeed been outlined correctly, especially by Mrs Fonck. It is indeed important for a lot of people to be able to take the car, because it is necessary for the work or to take the children to school, because it is necessary to carry out the commitment they take, both professionally and in their spare time. That is the concern the government has taken with it. A few months ago, we decided to reduce the special excise duties on diesel and petrol by 14.46 cents per litre. Add VAT to that, and then we get 17.50 cents per litre. This had a significant impact on the prices at the pump. Apart from the price increases that came later, and also apart from the price reductions that have been made, the effort that has been made at that time has had a significant impact. At a filling of a medium-sized car, 60 liters, that impact amounts to a price advantage of about 10.50 euros. That is an advantage that is still valid today. If we were to reduce excise duties to the level before that reduction, we would have to add so much euro per tank. I want to make it clear that without the intervention we have taken, prices would be much higher today. Now, for the transport sector, there is already an advantageous rate of excise duty, due to the system of reimbursement of professional diesel. The reduction in excise duties therefore did not give any additional benefit to the sector. That is indeed correct, precisely because there is already a favourable system for this sector. Of course, I understand the questions that are being asked here today, and I also understand that there is a demand for additional measures to significantly reduce energy and fuel prices. During last month's budgetary control, we explicitly instructed the group of ten to draw up a proposal to reduce the rise in energy prices. We have already made a considerable effort, an effort we had not made before. It is said here that we are among the highest prices in Europe, but that is not true. Nor do we have the lowest prices, because the European minimum is lower, and this is applied in Luxembourg. It is true that considerable efforts have already been made to control petrol and diesel prices. The debate we need to have on increased energy and fuel prices is much wider. That is why we explicitly asked this question to the group of ten. Of course, we will discuss proposals from that group within the government, together with other proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u26	Minister, you and your government promise a lot, but in the end you do little and realize nothing. The prices at the pump remain priceless to this day. The first reduction in excise duty was wiped out after a week. All the maximum prices of petrol 95, petrol 98 and diesel are now higher than 2 euros. Of this, 1 euro still goes to diesel and petrol itself. The other euro still consists of costs, contributions, excise duties and VAT. So half the price at the pump still disappears in the pockets of the government. Because prices at the pump remain priceless, the gas pump is ultimately the government's jackpot to finance the failing policy. Like gas and electricity, diesel and petrol are basic needs for us. A refueling operation must remain feasible and affordable for everyone. That is why we are campaigning throughout Flanders so that excise duties are kept to an absolute minimum. We, as Flemish Interest, were the first to announce this here in Parliament, and we will continue to do so consistently until a second reduction in excise duty to the European minimum and a reduction in VAT. In this way, we can return to the level of prices before the Ukraine crisis. We want a price of 1.60 euros at the pump.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u27	First of all, Minister, I have noticed that you have not said anything about all the economic operators in the sector that is generating billions of profits. In itself, that money goes somewhere. The billions do not disappear, but go into corporate declines while production costs have remained stable. That's important, isn't it? We are not yet in the discussion about an embargo. Production costs remained the same. Supply and demand have not varied much and some players earn a lot of money simply because of speculation in the sector. You don't say a word about that. As finance ministers, you have the tools to correct this in part, but you don't talk about it at all. Secondly, I asked you a question about the European minimum, because there is a problem here too. If we do not dare to go against these European directives, we will have a major problem. I do not agree with parliamentarians from other parties on the fact that we have to accept decisions by the European Union on a maximum reduction. If we want to block the price at EUR 1.40, which means that we are going against the market, then we must dare to go against Europe. That's very important. We did that for the banks. I don't see why we couldn't do that for people. Thirdly, you are talking to the group of ten, but you know, Minister, that there is a great deal of disagreement about the approach within that group of ten. A part of that group of ten, five out of ten, will argue in the streets of Brussels on 20 June to demand measures, such as a price freeze. As a CD&V minister, you should listen more to many of those protesters: ACV and ABVV protesters. That's a tip before it's too late for the CD&V. The mobilization for that demonstration is in full swing. The anger is very deep among the people. In this committee, however, you tell us that you and the group of ten will study it. There's an emergency, Minister! You tell people that if we hadn't taken any action, it would be even worse. But that's not the kind of message they want us to send them. This remains impeccable! You are mandated to find solutions! Two euros a liter is impeccable. And you're here to tell people that if you hadn't intervened, they'd have paid $2.20. This is not a message to send to workers! This political impotence is not acceptable! I'm not hiding from you that your answer disappoints me. But we will continue to press. For the time being, 90,000 people have signed the petition. We will continue to intervene in this Parliament on a number of occasions, hoping that the Vivaldi will change its shoulder rifle and take radical measures against the markets. Indeed, I do not believe that the law of supply and demand, Mr Smith's famous invisible hand, is capable of solving the social problem of supply and demand for petrol and diesel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear you're working on the most ambitious solutions possible. I welcome your willingness to move towards concrete solutions. But the problem lies in the fact that the measures taken were absorbed by the increases that immediately followed. So the effect was felt for a day or two at the pump, and then we went back beyond the two euros. At one point, we must learn the right lessons and see that the market is dysfunctional or, in any case, that market players are only speculatoryly anticipating possible stock reductions and supply problems that do not exist today. So we're dealing with some kind of speculation. There are no other words to describe the situation. There are, at a minimum, two things to do, if we want to act structurally and not "put plasters on a wooden leg", as they say in my home. It is necessary to look at the major players in the market that generate exceptional benefits. We must also be able to raise the question of price freezes at European level. Some of our neighbouring countries have legislation that allows it when we have the Price Observatory. I therefore believe that we need to have the tools that allow us to consider, beyond a certain amount, these price blockages. I believe that this beyond has long been out of place. I am pleased to see, to hear, to read the proposals you will make to the government, hoping that the most ambitious of them will be supported most widely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u29	Colleagues, given the importance of this debate, I have given you the opportunity – for those who were not registered – to speak twice. But when you're not registered, as is the case with me, you can only do it once. As I started, I keep going. But for the next topical debate, we will stick to the rule. Mrs. Fonck?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u30	Yes, I thought I'd stick to the rule, but since you're opening the door, I'm going to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u31	It doesn't matter. From the moment you make an exception, you have to go to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u32	That's right, you have to be fair. I'm not going to take a long time. I'd just like to say that prices are galloping, minister. I hear that in practice, of course, there is nothing concrete. I don't know if you're not saying it because there's a decision to come and because, by correcting the rest of the government, you want to announce it only once it's decided. If that is the case, I hope that this will be done again this week. I do not know whether the lack of a concrete response would in fact only reflect a lack of new measures and decisions by the government, in which case it is very worrying. I think we have a real problem. If this represented a transient and very short-term increase, it would not be so serious. But obviously, all the signals show that this will not be of short duration. The different governments clearly have no choice but to assess the seriousness of the situation. I'll say it again. To end up with people who work and who, tomorrow, will stop working because of this, is unbearable to hear and totally unacceptable. I see people today who sometimes stay one day a week in their workplace to try to reduce their expenses, not to mention this reality of all those who go from house to house to provide services. Various services, including health care for the population, are thus at risk of being undermined. So there is really a full responsibility on the part of the government to find concrete solutions. I see that in other countries the situation is less catastrophic. There's probably something to be inspired by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u33	Minister, the situation is very critical. You know better than anyone. The government is in the process of thinking and has many responsibilities at this time. When it is not the energy burden, it is the support for recovery, it is the demands made by the judicial organisation. I'm on it. Resources outside the ordinary and usual resources of the State budget are being sought. You have already used the means of the state, to some extent. It may be interesting to make a parallel with what is being done in the energy field, where over-profits by electricity producers are being examined as a result of the situation. We could look to oil and derivatives producers to see to what extent some of these overprofits, which were born out of the market situation, and which bear in them traces of speculation, could return to the state's coffers to help them cope, for all workers, and especially for them, with the crisis situation that we have been in for several weeks, and probably for several more weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u34	Mr Minister, on 7 April I read in the newspaper that VAT on bicycles is not reduced from 21% to 6%. I almost fell off my bike, because it was almost day by day three years ago that a PS bill was unanimously adopted here to reduce that VAT from 21% to 6%. The Fietsersbond is now engaged in a petition campaign. Like us, the organisation thinks it is a bad idea not to implement that bill. Many people have been waiting for that reduction to buy a bike. The impact for them is very large, especially given the high fuel prices and inflation. It is a painful decision in the light of yet another alarming climate report, calling for real action. Recently it was decided to reduce excise duties on diesel and petrol and temporarily reduce VAT. For the bike that seems to be a problem. Let us not forget that in Belgium transport and mobility bear a major responsibility for CO2 emissions. Where have our climate ambitions gone? Do you think a bicycle is a luxury product? Vivaldi proposes that the budget saved by not implementing the VAT reduction should be used for the payment of bicycle fees. This means that there is no effect on children, students, job seekers, pensioners and the sick, because they cannot count on a living-work allowance. Can people actually count on the Vivaldi government, with Green and Ecolo, to make that VAT reduction anyway? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u35	The colleagues of the PS have left the Chamber out of substitute shame. Their proposal to reduce VAT on bicycles and electric bicycles from 21 to 6% was approved in the Chamber in 2019 with great agreement. It was only necessary to wait for the European Commission's approval to bring this measure into force. That approval was long overdue, as usual for the European level, but it is now finally there. So now purple-green just breaks her promise. A VAT reduction should actually be the logic itself. Cycling is good for health. The Minister sometimes comes to Parliament by bike himself. It helps to tackle the problem of congestion and it is good for the environment. Despite the wide-ranging support and the Chamber-wide majority for the reduction, the government decided not to implement it anyway. Reference was made to the cost, which is estimated at €80 million per year. In this context, the Flemish Interest refers, for example, to the 178 million euros in grants for newspaper distribution. We can also save money on the state apparatus. We put forward a proposal to reduce the amounts to the political parties by about EUR 74 million per year by halving them. That was voted down by the majority parties. So that leads us to suspect that this cost was not so much the reason. Alternatives can be found. That money can certainly be found. Why was the VAT reduction not finally implemented? How can this decision be defended in the context of your ambition for fiscal greening of mobility, which you always work with in this Parliament and this committee. VAT falls within your competence and your decision is completely contrary to that ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u36	Mr Vermeersch, Mrs Vindevoghel, I think it is important to point out that I am strongly in favour of encouraging more people to opt for the bicycle as a means of transport, both for short and medium journeys. I believe that our State's financial resources should be used as efficiently as possible. In the context of this discussion and of the discussion we had on this subject, the government was reminded that bicycle manufacturers mostly harmonise the recommended sales prices of their products across national borders on the basis of the sales price including VAT. The bicycle manufacturers therefore actually ensure that the sales prices of bicycles in Belgium and in our neighbouring countries are identical, regardless of the VAT rate. As a result, a VAT reduction on bicycles would not be in the interest of the customer, but rather in favour of the producer, and thus would not achieve the objective of lowering the cost of the bicycles. For this reason, the Government has decided to re-devote that budget, which was intended for the introduction of the tariff favor scheme of 6% for bicycles, electric bicycles and speed pedals, within the same policy area. This budget will be used for the greening of mobility policies by promoting the use of bicycles in the context of commuting. The package of measures to be developed aims to promote the use of bicycles in the context of commuting rather than encouraging the possession of bicycles. In this way, we use the budgetary space as efficiently as possible, in order to maximise the positive social impact of cycling. In order to test this measure for its effectiveness, a report is being prepared, and we will have a first inventory of measures by the end of this month. On the basis of the available budget, we will then make the choice that we will effectively apply to stimulate commuting by bike. I work together with the Ministers for Employment, Mobility and Social Affairs. The argument put forward by Mrs Vindevoghel, among other things, that the reduction was not implemented because it was too expensive is not correct. We will actually spend the resources provided, but in a more targeted way, so that it will make an effective and efficient contribution to reducing the number of journeys by car in favour of more journeys by bike, which hopefully will also lead to a greening of our mobility. It is therefore absolutely not the deletion for budgetary reasons, but it is because we are convinced that we should not encourage the possession of the bike, but rather the use of the bike, for example for commuting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u37	Mr Minister, this proposal leaves out a large group of people. Young people and people who do not work cannot make use of this. It is, of course, a good thing that investments will be made in the greening of commuting. However, a large group of people do not work and they cannot make use of it. The VAT reduction to 6% was approved by everyone here. Now you're saying that this isn't important and that it has no effect. For many people, including young people, the purchase of a bicycle is a big cost. That's not a luxury for us. If we look at the subsidies granted to commercial vehicles in Belgium, that is EUR 2.3 billion, it is in stark contrast to the proposal that you yourself have adopted to reduce VAT to 6%. For us the bike is not a luxury item. It's good for health. It's good for the climate. Given the fuel crisis, it is a cheap way for many people to move.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u38	Mr. Secretary, it is clear. Parliament has decided with great unanimity to reduce VAT on bicycles and electric bicycles. What Parliament decides must be implemented. The government parties broke their promise. The fact that the government does not implement the VAT reduction for bicycles has not so much to do with the cost, you are right. Above all, it shows that this purple-green government is no longer able to make serious decisions. Cheaper bikes fit perfectly in the greening of mobility, but that apparently escapes the green parties in this purple-green government. The worst in this government are, of course, the liberals. Those parties have for a long time stopped the VAT reductions on our energy bill. They are now removing the VAT reduction on bicycles, but in the meantime they have argued in favour of this we will come back to that later on to reduce VAT on horses. So they're fooling the common man in the street, and that has to stop. The Flemish Interest demands fundamental solutions to these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u39	Minister, I think you have made the right choice and have also given the right motivation to spend the funds differently, with the same objectives, in a sensible fiscal policy coordinated at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u40	Mr President, in addition to pump prices, energy prices remain unaffordable. The electricity and gas bill for an average Flemish family rose to an absolute record in April. The explosion of energy prices completely wipes out the effect of the heating premium and the VAT reduction after one month. On an annual basis, more than 450 euros will be added compared to March for an average Flemish family. This is evident from the figures of the VREG. As part of the February Energy Agreement, it was agreed that the Minister for Energy and you, as Minister for Finance, would draft a proposal for smart VAT reduction against budgetary control. Budgetary control has now passed, but your smart VAT reduction is still not traceable. What's the status of that smart VAT cut? When should there be an agreement on this? What's that gonna mean? When will it enter into force? The price increase exceeded the VAT reduction, which was demonstrated by the VRT among others. The additional revenue from VAT would be returned to you, Minister. You said that in October for the VRT's cameras. Hence my second question. Is it still your ambition as Minister of Finance to return all additional income to our families? For the sake of clarity, today you do not do so despite the measures taken. Some of the additional income is still disappearing in the bottomless wells of the Belgian State. Thirdly, are you prepared, as Minister for Finance, to reduce excise duties or to remove, temporarily or permanently, all excise duties on energy bills? I come to my fourth question. Due to the sharp rise in prices, producers such as Engie Electrabel and the windmills at sea make a significant profit on the energy produced. Do you see as Minister an opportunity to tackle these usury gains to finance the energy bill measures? Fifth, Test-Achats pleads like Flemish interest for a real energy tax shift, thus reducing the invoice of the families to the essence, namely electricity, gas and its transport. Mr Minister, are you prepared to provide a true energy tax shift, such as Test-Achats and Flemish Interest? Then I have a number of questions about the measures relating to purchasing power and energy prices. The Nieuwsblad wrote last week: "There is currently no meeting on the agenda of the federal government to work on additional measures against the loss of purchasing power and high energy prices. The vice prime ministers of the PS, CD&V and the Greens want the federal government to work on an alternative package of additional measures to strengthen purchasing power in the coming weeks." Minister, there is a warning in your cabinet that many people may fall back on wage indexation, but that the situation is on the verge of escalating in view of persistent inflation and high energy prices. It has also been pointed out that new measures are now needed for the Minister of Finance. I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, what new measures, in your capacity as Minister of Finance, are you proposing to tackle the loss of purchasing power and high energy prices? This is an update of the question of the purchasing power plan which the PS has put on the table this week. Secondly, when should the measures be agreed? Thirdly, when should the new measures come into force? I have a final set of questions about VAT on energy. The Open Vld chairman has now turned his cart. At the beginning of May 2022, he opened the door in VTM News for an extension of the reduced VAT rate on electricity and gas. The reduction from 21 % to 6 % is provisional until the end of September 2022. On 1 May 2022, the President-in-Office of the European Parliament, Mr Delors, called for the VAT on gas and electricity to be increased to 6% once and for all during the May speeches. I must point out that our legislative proposal, which was voted on in committee two years ago by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, was voted down, although it is now in favour of it. So the spirits are ripening. We welcome that, of course. What is your position in your capacity as Minister of Finance? Will there be a permanent VAT reduction on electricity? Is that gonna be on gas, too? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u41	Mr Vermeersch, you have asked your three questions. I now give the floor to Mr Verduyckt. Mr Hedebouw is absent and will therefore put his question to the Commission. 55027369C not set.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u42	Madam President, we have shared the topical debates. Mr Hedebouw intervened in the previous one and I will intervene in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u43	Mr Vermeersch, when it comes to reducing VAT, I would just like to stress that we have always been in favour of this. We make agreements in the government, as far as possible. You're quoting the VRT, of course, because it's convenient. You say that the profits made by the VAT reduction have already been wiped out by the increased prices. However, it is precisely those increased prices that show that this VAT reduction is more necessary than ever. I find that a very strange twist in your mind. You also stated that you had heard at VTM that that measure would be renewed. Well, even during the plenary session, the Prime Minister said this when he answered a question from me. Even the colleague who replaced Minister Van Peteghem because he had just become a father said that this measure might be extended in September because of current high energy prices. To be honest, I'm not worried about that. I'm more concerned about those high energy prices. Mr Minister, this measure has been extended to many families, but I do note a number of shortcomings. The fact is that apartment residents with a collective heating system, which are often bound by a contract of the association of co-owners, a legal person, cannot benefit from the reduction in the VAT rate. That is an unjust situation. On the one hand, these people have opted for a system with a very low ecological footprint, on the other hand, citizens like everyone else, people with an electricity contract, who heat with gas and cannot enjoy that 6%. That's not correct. I understand that if a general measure is taken, as in March, there may be imperfections. However, if an extension were to be made in September, it would be appropriate to remedy this problem so that those people could also benefit from this measure. I therefore ask you how you are going to deal with this discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u44	Minister, if the government and the majority parties had read the explanatory memorandum to my February bill concerning the EUR 500 tax reduction, they would already have known that a few million apartment residents would be in the cold and would not be able to benefit from the VAT reduction. We warned about that then, and that was one of our main arguments for choosing our option. In the end it started to happen to everyone and it even came up at Question Time in plenary on 28 April. On 5 May the French-speaking colleagues urged Minister Van der Straeten to find a solution. The answer was that you, together with Ministers Dermagne, Lalieux and Van der Straeten, are eagerly seeking this solution. Are you still working on a solution and what would it consist of? On 16 February, you told me that you did not consider such a solution necessary because co-owners' associations have a better negotiating position due to the increased volume of sales and could therefore negotiate better contractual terms. I would like to know whether that is still your position and whether you are still working on a solution, as your fellow Minister said. By what time can we expect such a solution? What are you going to do with the tariff difference that threatens to arise in connection with the liberal professions or other entrepreneurs who have an office within a co-ownership and those who have their own building, in the first case, for example, a bank located on the ground floor of an apartment building? What compensation will the government provide if a smart VAT reduction would not be possible for residents of apartment buildings with a collective heating system?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u45	Mr Minister, I would like to extend the debate to domestic fuels and energy products, because the price explosion in these two areas is enormous. The fact, already stated earlier, is that the government has adopted measures that are both late, limited, temporary, and far from meeting social challenges, especially since this increase does not seem to be a temporary phenomenon. Some analyses give a litre of fuel to three euros this summer. In addition to this, if we want to act seriously at the level of taxes in Belgium, we are blocked by European legislation, which for example prevents the reduction of the VAT rate from 21 % to 6 % on certain energy products, or even other rates such as coal or wood. EU legislation also prevents fuel excise duties from being reduced below a certain level. Has the government taken any steps with the European Union to defend an amendment to this supranational legislation, so that VAT and excise duties on certain energy products can be reduced at Belgian level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u46	Mr Minister, first of all, the evolution of the electricity bill is certainly due to the international context of the war in Ukraine, but when compared with France and the Netherlands, in Belgium the increase is 100% while in France it is 8% and in the Netherlands it is 30%. We have the right to ask ourselves questions. Secondly, we have already come back several times on the situation of co-owners sharing a gas or fuel oil collective boiler. Each time, one member of the government tells us that the government is working on solutions. Since March 31, we've been asking you about this, and it's May 18. Two weeks ago, in plenary, I was told that the solutions were about to be found. About three million people live in a co-ownership with a collective boiler and the majority of them are disadvantaged and have no energy support. Minister, what is the status of aid - reduction of VAT on gas and fuel check - to be provided to these people? Several ministers of this government are concerned about the issue, including you. Finally, I would like to refer to the social tariff, which is obviously a good thing and which has been extended in part by the government. The reality is that the majority of people who benefit from it do not work. Is it not time, given the catastrophic situation, to put in place a suitable tariff for the middle classes, who are working and who could then also benefit from a much more reasonable price?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u47	Firstly, I fully understand the concerns of households, but also businesses, with regard to these sharply rising energy prices. However, I also think that we should always go back to the substance of the matter. You know that the price is the result of a game between supply and demand. In normally functioning markets, the price results in lower demand and increased supply. Of course, this takes a certain amount of time and the fact that markets can operate transparently and efficiently with a medium to long-term vision. We are now in a situation where, in Europe and elsewhere, we have deliberately decided to restrict supply. In fact, carbon-free nuclear energy had to be phased out as quickly as possible. As a result, we have also introduced subsidy mechanisms which, to say the least, are market-distorting and have made the geopolitical choice to change suppliers. After all, we will no longer supply ourselves via Russia but import shale gas from America. That will, of course, affect the price. On the other hand, as far as the question is concerned, I am still hungry. It concerns not only the reduction of demand as a whole, but also the spread of peaks. I believe that more attention should be paid to this. In exceptional circumstances, it is justified to intervene exceptionally and temporarily by taking a piece of the burden at the expense of the government. However, we must be aware that the public budget accounts will sooner or later be returned to the public. We always hope that it will be for the next generation and that they will all be able to cough it up through fantastic growth. However, as things now look, this is likely to be done by the present generation. What is your attitude towards this vision? To what extent will the government, including through your input, make a stronger commitment to a long-term structural policy that will rebalance demand and supply and transcend the short-term aspect of this energy tax policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u48	Madam President, before I turn to my questions to the Minister, I would like to respond to Mrs Fonck's comments on what she says about prices in the Netherlands. This remains the country with the highest prices among all our neighbours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u49	What about France?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u50	In France, it is specific because it is the State which is a shareholder of EDF, which absorbs the increases. Nevertheless, it is the taxpayer who pays them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u51	Spain and Portugal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u52	It's interesting, but it's not up to me to answer. I would remind you that the government has taken on its responsibilities with the enlargement and extension of the social tariff, the 6% VAT on electricity and gas, the fuel check, etc. These are good measures. But it is very clear that these measures are extendable and amplifyable and can be supplemented by others; there is no limit to ambition. There is no taboo or fiscal straitjacket that would be inappropriate to the reality that is extremely serious today. Minister, are you formally confirming a further extension of the extended social tariff? What do you think of the implementation of a specific tariff for households which do not benefit from the extended social tariff, but which still have incomes below the median wage and therefore take these price increases in full? They are families of workers who are at high risk of impoverishment due to these increases. Let's think of a special rate for the middle classes! Today, the social tariff protects 18 to 20 per cent of the population. What about a special tariff that would protect 30% or even 50% of the population? What do you think about the sustainability of 6% VAT on gas and electricity, essential products? What do you think about the taxation of the overprofits of energy companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has already taken a number of measures, and I have just referred to them, to tackle the loss of purchasing power of our families and to curb these high energy prices and high prices. In my view, it is not necessary to recount all these measures. The message is that we are not blind to the fact that many efforts have already been made. Of course, we are not blind to the fact that more is being called for. This debate will be held within the government. I do not want to anticipate this. Then I come to the specific questions. Mr Vermeersch, you are referring to the energy agreement of February 2020. However, it was already decided in March to extend the VAT reduction on electricity and to reduce the VAT on natural gas to 6%. The VAT reduction has therefore been implemented. A further reform is not currently under discussion. The government here does the maximum to keep that cost, in relation to our part of the invoice, at the lowest possible point. I can also confirm that a very clear agreement has been reached on the reduction of VAT on electricity and natural gas. We are going to review that situation in September. In the present context, however, it seems only logical to me. As far as I am concerned, it is logical that we should maintain the VAT reduction on electricity and gas from 21% to 6% after September 2022. The permanent removal of excise duties on energy bills is not possible. You know, of course, that you have just referred to it in the debate on prices at the pump. The European minimum must always be respected. Several MPs referred to usury gains. For this, I would like to refer you to the Minister for Energy, who also questioned the CREG. Furthermore, the federal government has already taken a first step towards tackling the policy costs that do not belong in the energy bill. The federal share of electricity and gas bills is currently limited to that minimum VAT rate of 6% and a very limited amount of excise duty. Mr Van Hees, several decisions are under way at European level on how best to respond to high energy prices. The work is carried out on different levels, but a change in the VAT Directive or a change in the minimum rates for excise duties on fuel are not currently envisaged. Mr Donné, Mr Verduyckt, the government is, of course, aware of the problems of apartment dwellers warming up with a collective gas boiler. That is why in the government the Energy and Social Integration Ministers were asked to work out a solution together and to propose it to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u54	It is, of course, up to you, Minister, to create security in uncertain times. You do not do that by saying: we will decide in September. No, people are already worried about their energy bill for the coming winter. It is important to make an early decision in these times and to say already that this VAT reduction will be a permanent reduction. You are also hiding behind the European level, but that is, of course, a mistake. You are represented as a minister at the European level. You need to raise these excise duties there and create a basis for further lowering those minimum excise duties. The rise in prices is so great that even the third package of measures taken by this government in mid-March has evaporated. The VAT reduction on gas was immediately cancelled. The lower excise duties on petrol and diesel were no good after a week. Now the VAT rate of 6% on electricity is no longer palpable. You must come up with thorough measures and stop fooling the citizens. Those thorough measures are very simple. Get all that tax shit out of that energy bill now. That doesn't just say the Flemish interest. This is also what TestAchats says in favour of an energy tax shift where the energy bill is not a second tax bill, but only contains the energy of gas and electricity and the transport costs. Everything else needs to be removed from that energy bill. You must also argue for this at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u55	Minister, it is good that you are aware of the problem. I hear you were asked to propose a solution to the government, so I hope that the government will do something about it. This reduction in VAT is and remains an important measure. I hear Mr Vermeersch say that she is no longer palpable and I wonder if he is therefore in favour of a return to 21%. I don't think so. We need to stay a little serious. Together with the social tariff, this is and remains the most important measure. I would like to hear Mrs Fonck refer here to Spain and the Netherlands. I can't believe she's gonna ask them if they have a social rate there. This important protection does not exist in those countries. These measures protect our families today at high prices. An average family of four pays around 3,500 euros at the commercial rate today, but at the social rate it is about 1,300 euros. That is a huge difference and I regret that this is always forgotten in this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u56	Mr Minister, I thank you for your brief reply in relation to the few millions of families who still do not feel anything about the VAT reduction for natural gas. I learn from your answer that the solution will not come from you, that it will not be sought in VAT. This is in line with what we have been saying for a long time, namely that it cannot be technically found there either. You leave it to the other ministers to come up with a non-fiscal solution. I hope it gets there soon. Among others, on 28 April, PS President Magnette stated that this VAT reduction would soon apply to collective heating installations. Quod nun, if I hear you today. So false hope has been given to a large group of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u57	Mr Minister, you are telling me that there are discussions at European level but that we are not considering reducing the minimum excise duty on fuel or revising VAT rates. What I was asking you is not whether it is envisaged or not at European level. I asked you if the Belgian government had put this question on the table. Yes, it's a little easy. You say that the European minimum must be respected, but when you are at European level you do not question it. This means that you accept the situation and use the European rules to avoid taking the necessary measures. This is the conclusion that can be drawn from your answer: "It helps us. There are European rules. We don't question them when we're in Europe and Belgium, we say there are European rules that we have to respect." I think that's a really unacceptable attitude. Beyond that, we can see that, even the European minimum, you can't do it! You have not made an excise reduction to reach the European minimum. You are really showing a willingness not to take the necessary measures, when, as we said earlier, we are moving towards a price of fuel that could reach 3 euros per litre this summer. People can't take it anymore, but you don't do anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u58	Minister, I will not go as far as Mr. Van Hees. No, it's going too far! I believe that the government has the will to act and that the situation is extremely complex. I would just like to talk about the European level. When I see that some countries have taken radical measures to protect their nationals in relation to the increase in energy prices in the broad sense - I am referring, for example, to France, whose situation is known not only in relation to the electricity production fleets but also in Spain and Portugal - I think that there is a way of having a global reflection at European level, in which Belgium could argue that it is unfortunately in the top of the highest prices and that it is, momentarily, calling for deaths to be taken on its territory, as Spain and Portugal, for example, have been able to do for a period of twelve months. I do not know to what extent this is possible and how to articulate all this my wish would really be for Belgium to be able to express itself on this subject at European level and to remove an additional element of protection from it beyond what is already being undertaken by the Belgian State for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u59	Question No 55026153C by Mrs Thémont is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u60	Minister, recently, the four largest banking institutions published their profits for the year 2021. The least we can say is that it's not the crisis for everyone. The cumulative result is over €7 billion in net profits, i.e. 905 million for Belfius, 2.6 billion for BNP, 946 million for ING and 2.6 billion for KBC, despite the crisis linked to the coronavirus. These figures may hit, while the citizens are tightening their belts as a result of the surge in energy bills, which you have just mentioned. This is even more true when we see the rationalization policies undertaken by the banking sector, as evidenced in particular by the closure of many banking agencies and their lack of enthusiasm – and it is an understatement! – to participate in the Batopin project. Minister, isn't it time to ask the banking sector to participate a little more in the crisis effort to finance measures that will relieve the citizen's portfolio? Many of them may find themselves in difficulty with payment. Does the banking sector intend to take initiatives to prevent them from sinking? Could you enter into discussions with FEBELFIN to encourage banks to work more constructively on the Batopin issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u61	Mr Bayet, the Belgian banks came out of the crisis with a solid financial position, which was supported by their good profitability, but also by the limits imposed on the payment of dividends. They are therefore well equipped to meet the challenges posed by the current geopolitical crisis. By the end of 2021, the Belgian banking sector had a free capital reserve of around EUR 27 billion, in addition to the minimum capital requirements. This large capital reserve should enable banks to absorb large potential losses, without neglecting their crucial role in financial intermediation and support for debtors facing repayment problems. Indeed, it is important for the financial sector to continue to provide the necessary credit, but also for its available capital reserves to be used to find sustainable financing solutions for viable borrowers facing repayment difficulties, as was the case during the co-vid crisis in 2020 and 2021. Therefore, for the reasons I have just mentioned before you, I cannot ask the financial sector to contribute directly to the measures taken to respond to the energy crisis. Their capital reserves are necessary for the development of a sustainable financial system and are, to a large extent, imposed by the Basel Conventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You say it yourself: 27 billion in addition to the minimum requirements. We hear the same speeches all the time. The banks must be ready to take over. Apart from the end of the world, I no longer see what they must be able to assume. With so much money on their account, frankly, I don't see very well what else they could do, if it's not participating a little more and serving citizens and not closing all their bank offices, not closing all the bank note machines, and perhaps helping a little, through a crisis tax, because we need them right now. So, I'm really having trouble hearing your speech that says we can't ask them any more. As you said yourself: 27 billion in addition to the minimum requirements, it seems to me more than enough to be able to help our fellow citizens a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u63	As you know, the fight against tax evasion is one of the priorities of this government. You have already made good progress in this area, and I congratulate you on that, but, as you know, we are still in our group with particular attention, and we will support all your initiatives to improve the distribution of wealth and tax justice, particularly when it comes to implementing the recommendations of the special committees and investigations of this Parliament. The budgetary objective of the fight against tax and social fraud is common, but here I would like to ask you for a clear and precise breakdown of the exact distribution between the results of the fight against social fraud and tax fraud. It is often referred to without being able to obtain correct figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u64	In accordance with the government agreement, the government set a collective budget target for the fight against fraud in its multi-annual budget and chose not to allocate it within a specific branch of revenue and expenditure. In addition to the SIRS action plan against social fraud and the action plan drawn up by the College for the fight against tax and social fraud, further measures are being taken. In this regard, mention should be made of the Act of 2 June 2021 on various financial provisions relating to the fight against fraud. As regards the SIRS and the action plan against social fraud, the strategic plan to combat social fraud has now been approved by the government. For further information at the international level, please contact the relevant colleagues. As far as the college itself is concerned, the implementation of this policy is consolidated on the basis of consolidated proposals from the relevant members, i.e. the departments and institutions involved in the fight against fraud in action plans approved by the relevant ministerial committee. On the basis of scoreboards, the implementation of the measures shall be monitored and monitored by the College. Recently, the Ministerial Committee approved both the progress report and the second action plan. One of the results is the recently adopted bill on various tax provisions and the fight against fraud. In addition, the budgetary change relating to the VAT gap is reflected in a number of measures such as the obligation to use electronic invoicing and the digitisation of cash tickets as well as various measures that are being prepared in this working group within the FPS Finance. On 15 March 2022, the VAT Gap symposium was held at which the OECD, the IMF and the European Commission reminded administrations of the importance of reducing the VAT gap. The positive result is that this topic will also be monitored at the international level. The results of the fight against tax fraud are monitored on the basis of the figures in terms of performance criteria and target value to be achieved. For AG IS, for example, this results in an increase in the taxable base for the year 2021 in the amount of EUR 2 227 897 520 and for AG FISC in the amount of EUR 4 328 898 934. For the D&A AG, the total amount amounted to EUR 2,065,310,537 as a result of infringements, including fines applied. For the results on social, economic and criminal fraud, please contact the respective colleagues responsible for SIRS, the Economic Inspectorate and the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for this first response. Indeed, I have already received a whole series of replies from Minister Dermagne on social fraud and I would also like to receive the same with regard to tax evasion. I will therefore introduce a written question in order to receive all the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u66	Minister, a few weeks ago, I asked you about the mechanisms for transposing Pillar 2 of the global tax agreement into Belgian law. This transposition into Belgian law, of course, depends on a prior agreement to be reached at European level. A bad news has just bleaked a little more at this level the hopes of all those who want more tax justice since the Ecofin of 15 March last failed to reach agreement on a compromise. Many fear that these persistent disagreements will soften the text and delay its implementation. In a compromise gesture, the French Presidency decided to delay the entry into force of the directive by one year. This is obviously an upsurge that we know only too well about tax matters at European level. While European states are facing the explosion of energy costs and this money would be very useful to help citizens, I find it surprising – especially since all European countries have accepted the global agreement at the OECD level – that the directive, which is just a transposition of it, is not moving any faster. This leads me to ask you two questions, Minister: what was the position of Belgium that you defended in the Ecofin on 15 March and can we have a CV of this meeting? Do you think we can reach an agreement quickly or, in any case, what do you intend to put in place to help the good will? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u67	I was hoping, like you, Mr Bayet, that this draft directive could be approved at the meeting of the Ecofin Council on 5 April. A majority of Member States, including Belgium, were in favour. However, despite the efforts made by the French Presidency of the Council to reach a compromise, some Member States were not yet prepared to approve the draft as it stands. The Ecofin Council will meet again on 24 May next, it is next Tuesday. Until then, the French Presidency of the Council will seek to remove the remaining reluctance of these Member States in order to reach unanimous agreement. In so doing, it will be assured of the support of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u68	Thank you, Minister. Do you remember the number of countries that were opposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u69	A country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u70	One! In this case, I thank you for your very proactive response and I hope that next week we will be able to convince this last Gaul!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u71	Madam President, Minister, as you know, in the context of the covid pandemic, the Regions have granted numerous aid to businesses to help them through the crisis. The European framework in relation to these aid schemes ends on 30 June and the aid will therefore have to be paid by that date. They will have to be released at the level of regional budgets. These subsidies are tax exempt and this exemption was stopped on 31 March 2022. Mr Minister, would it not be appropriate to extend this tax exemption until the end of this year or, at the very least, until the end of the payment of the aid imposed by the temporary framework on State aid, in order to enable regional aid, which is complementary to federal support, to achieve its objective, i.e. to help those who need it to go through the crisis by extending the minimum aid until 30 June 2022? This is a strong demand from the regions, which have supported the most affected companies in particularly affected sectors. If I take the example of Brussels, which I know well for ten years, it is in particular the sectors of the Horeca, the night, the event and the culture. We believe it is important to continue to help them, in particular by extending the tax exemption from the premiums awarded to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u72	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, by the Act of 29 May 2020 introducing various urgent tax measures due to the covid-19 pandemic, the allowances awarded by the Regions, Communities, provinces or municipalities for the economic consequences following the covid-19 pandemic were exempt from income tax. This measure was extended several times and expired on 31 March 2022. However, the government has decided not to grant any further extensions, with the exception of the extension of the temporary unemployment regime following the war in Ukraine and certain specific measures for the health and education sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u73	Minister, I thank you for your answer, even though I may have expected another answer. I regret a little that this exemption cannot be extended in the same spirit as the first exception, since aid is there to help sectors in particular at regional level. It is a bit special that the state, through income tax, takes back on the one hand what was granted on the other to go through an exceptional crisis which is that of the covid. I find this a pity and I take note of the government's decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u74	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I would also like to congratulate you. Being myself at the head of a happy tribe, I know the pleasure you can have now and I thank you for your presence in this commission. I wanted to ask you about the shortage of staff at the PJF for financial investigations. Last September, the public prosecutor in Brussels had sounded the alarm: the sections of the PJF, specialised in financial matters, were badly understaffed. A third of investigators in less than 20 years, with increasing difficulties in managing all criminal cases. And so, de facto impunity for many fraudsters. At the time, you said that "this was contrary to the policy you intended to pursue and that with your government colleagues, Mr. Van Quickenborne and Mrs Verlinden, you were working to facilitate collaboration between the prosecution, the tax authorities and the police to increase efficiency in the handling of criminal cases. You also said that "additional budgetary resources had been provided, from the interdepartmental provision, to strengthen the judiciary". For his part, your colleague from Justice, Mr. Van Quickenborne, had explained that the gradual decrease in the number of specialized investigators within the PJF was due to a large shortage of candidates; that the means were there, but that we simply did not find the necessary collaborators, that together, with the competent ministers, you would examine the issue and quickly find solutions and stimulate the creation of this kind of profile. Today, we learn that since the autumn, the weighting committee set up within the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, which is responsible for prioritizing cases, has already had to store 53 financial investigations "in the fridge". According to the information available to Le Soir, one in five Ecofin files would end up in the fridge because of a lack of investigative capacity. We don't dare to talk about a ranking without a sequel, but it looks like it. This situation is unacceptable. You promised not to let a message of impunity spread. You had a very strong political message in that direction. Minister, regarding the shortage of candidates for the positions of investigator to be filled, where are you in your joint work with Minister Verlinden? What leads have been identified? Amending the 1986 Taxpayer's Charter to allow magistrates to re-apply to ISI inspectors for fraud investigations is an option. What are you doing here?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u75	Madam President, Mrs Cornet has outlined the context in detail and I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax fraud is and remains a government priority. That is why last month the government also launched the second action plan with a focus on the fight against international fraud and complex fraud structures. In order to address the limited capacity of the federal police, a call for candidates for the posting of tax officials to the federal judicial police, in particular to the Central Office for the fight against organised economic and financial delinquency, was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 6 May. This procedure will allow for the filling of five currently vacant posts and the creation of an additional reserve of up to ten staff members. In addition, the government has created the opportunity to allow FPS Finance officials to assist in specialized criminal tax investigations. In this context, 25 tax officers will be granted the status of judicial police officer in order to provide temporary and ad hoc assistance to these criminal investigations. This will enable the magistrates to use the tax expertise of our officials in a punctual and temporary manner in the context of specialized judicial investigations, thus temporarily increasing their capacity to deal with this matter. A call for candidates will be launched within the FPS Finance in the coming weeks. I am convinced that this reinforcement from my administration will contribute to the proper handling of major fraud cases within the federal judicial police and justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answers. You're landing on the twenty-five ISI investigators who are going to work with the prosecution. You indicate that the publication for the five vacant posts was made on 6 May. I hope the results are up to date. We're talking about five posts, but is that enough in the face of the huge alarm cry? Is that enough to deal with the fact that a fifth of the files are in the fridge? I hope that you will carry out an evaluation of what is being put in place with regard to the political objectives and the anti-fraud plan that you and your colleagues are developing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u78	The fight against tax fraud and financial crime is one of the main objectives of the coalition agreement on which not only you but all of us will be dealt with. You also know what additional resources are included in the budgetary tables that are intended to bring about this fight. To this end, it is essential that the services have sufficient capacity and competences. That is step 1 in the three-stage rocket to combat fraud. You are right to say that this means steps forward. In the future, it will have to prove that this is sufficient. We will discuss this further. There is, however, a good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Chanson's 55026774C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u80	Mr Loones is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u81	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is little chance that you were aware of the existence of the MEP Horse Group in the European Parliament. This is a lobby group of MEPs, chaired by Hilde Vautmans of Open Vld, a self-proclaimed Amazon. It presented a remarkable proposal, namely to reduce VAT on horses. Minister, can you confirm whether this government will introduce a VAT reduction in this legislature on "living equidae and services relating to live equidae"? Can you thoroughly argue why you are either in favour or not opposed to a VAT reduction on horses? Does a VAT reduction on horses fit in with your ambition to tax greening mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u82	Madam President, the recently published VAT reform directive on reduced VAT rates indeed contains a number of additional possibilities for Member States, including the possibility of applying a reduced VAT rate to the supply of live equidae and services related to live equidae. At the moment, also in view of the current economic and budgetary context, we obviously do not intend to review the VAT rates applicable to horses. Taking into account Belgium's position in the international horse sector, the government will, of course, follow up closely on developments in neighbouring countries with great interest. My administration does not yet have any information on the budgetary impact of such a measure, just because today I do not think it is appropriate to review the VAT rate applicable to horses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u83	Thank you, Minister, I take note of your answer. Of course, there is nothing wrong with horse lovers. Horses are beautiful animals, but the VAT rate for basic goods should of course be used for basic goods. And horses, with all due respect, are not immediately a basic need in 2022. It is, of course, very wrong for a political party in this House to refuse to do anything about the towering taxes on energy, but lobbies in the European Parliament for months to lower VAT on horses. While more and more families are barely able to pay their energy bills, Mrs Vautmans browsed from her horse on Twitter about the advantage she was able to gain for the yet exclusive equestrian sport. Mrs Vautmans' Open Vld and the elites in the European institutions are becoming strangers to the world every day. How is it possible that, in the same week in which this government decided not to implement the promised VAT reduction on bicycles, it is arguing for a god-better tax reduction on equestrian sport. That is completely alien and also shameless self-service of some Open Vld-members who ride their own horse. This cannot be understood by the population in these times with rising energy bills and rising prices at the pump.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u84	Mr Minister, a study by the KUL and Oxford commissioned by Fairwork shows that none of the five sub-platforms examined are good in terms of working conditions. Only meal delivery guy TakeAway scores enough. Striking is the zero score of the Yoopies and Top Help healthcare platforms. Researchers argue that platform workers are not adequately insured against accidents at work, do not earn a guaranteed minimum wage, receive clearly defined employment contracts and do not have sufficient opportunities to participate in the platform for which they work. In addition, the healthcare platforms ignore the regulation, which makes them informally increase even the undeclared work. According to the researchers, the reason for these abuses lies in the tax-friendly peer-to-peer statute, which employs more than 80% of platform workers in Belgium. Were you informed of that study? What is your opinion on this? The social partners do not have an agreement and so everything is returned to the government. However, the aim was to establish the employment status for platform workers and also to provide them with insurance against accidents at work. Furthermore, there are many abuses of this peer-to-peer status, which most of them include. Is there any consultation with the Minister for Labour in this context to bring that statute into line with what was agreed in the employment deal? Are checks carried out, in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, to verify compliance with the conditions of peer-to-peer status? Sometimes the Labour Inspectorate discovers platform workers without papers or underage platform workers. Sometimes false accounts are also used to exceed the limit. According to the study, undeclared work is encouraged, despite the fact that it was the intention of the scheme to reduce undeclared work. Will you take initiatives to tackle the abuses under the Staff Regulations in a structural manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u85	The study to which you refer concerns the platform economy in general, not just the recognised platforms that work within the tax framework of the collaborative economy. It also covers elements such as the representation of platform workers, fair remuneration, safety, insurance of occupational risks which are not strictly related to the tax system of the collaborative economy. I therefore think it would be better to ask the views of the Ministers for Employment and Social Affairs about the study in general. However, the government has undertaken to strengthen the criteria for the qualification of the work relationship of platform workers. This could have an impact on the application of the tax system of the collaborative economy. That system does not apply where the platform worker is to be regarded as a worker. However, it will depend on the relevant factual circumstances in each individual case. In my opinion, the provision or absence of insurance for accidents at work does not in itself have an impact on the application of the tax system of the collaborative economy. As regards the monitoring of compliance with the conditions, my administration has recently undertaken an action aimed at taxpayers who earn income from the collaborative economy in order to verify that the limits have not been exceeded. The results of this action are not yet known. Undeclared work is discussed in the study in the context of healthcare services through a non-approved platform, which is solely responsible for bringing different parties into contact. The income from these services is therefore not covered by the tax system of the collaborative economy. In my opinion, the system of recognised platforms helps to combat undeclared work, because all the revenues that are allocated through the platform are also communicated to the tax administration. Of course, abuses continue to be possible, such as working with fake accounts, for example. The fight against working with false accounts seems to me to be primarily the responsibility of the platforms themselves. I will, however, ask my administration to examine whether measures could be taken in this area by the authorities, for example on a regulatory basis. In addition, I would like to point out that non-approved platforms linking persons at a distance to provide a service also have to provide information to the tax administration for the first time this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, I asked the questions last week to the Minister for Labour, who referred me to you for an answer. That's how they always play the ball to each other. I understand that FairWork's study is wider than just the recognized sharing platforms. However, we cannot deny that there are many abuses in the recognised sharing platforms, such as Deliveroo and Uber. Enough reportages have shown that minors are working on these platforms, that they are working under false accounts and that the border amounts are being exceeded. In any case, I am already pleased with a first step, namely that the administration is doing more control. There is also the important impact of the ruling by the labour court that Deliveroo and Uber are not actually part-economic companies, should not rely on them and that statute does not therefore apply to their couriers. I do not understand why the government still grants tax advantages to these companies, while we are now finding abuses. In fact, we open the door and give it an extra advantage. I have written, together with Mr Vandenbroucke, a motion for a resolution to examine this thoroughly and to tackle the problem in a structural manner, because opening the door wide to such companies and granting them advantages, while so many abuses are being identified, is no longer possible. Those abuses really need to stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u87	Mr Vermeersch, the total amount of financial sanctions resulting from the situation in Ukraine is now more than EUR 200 billion. This amount is made up of EUR 3.5 billion of assets frozen and approximately EUR 200 billion of transactions held back. Balances and economic resources of sanctioned persons and entities shall be effectively frozen. This means that, as long as the financial sanctions are in force, they cannot be used to finance the war or the Russian regime. Transactions that have been refused or blocked will in practice be placed on a waiting account with the financial institutions. Although this is not a legal freeze, the effects in practice are the same as the blocked assets can no longer be used by the person or entity concerned. It goes without saying that both the overall amount and the relationship between the frozen and blocked assets fluctuate as new European sanction packages are added. Article 8 of the EU Regulation 269/2014 provides that the information provided and received in relation to frozen funds shall be used only for the purposes for which the information was provided or received, in particular the correct implementation of the restrictive measures based on the Regulation. As a result, I cannot provide further details on the number of persons or entities. The list of penalties currently lists 1,110 persons and 83 entities covered by the freezing of funds and economic resources. If we also consider far-reaching measures, such as the sanctioning of the Central Bank of Russia and the decoupling of Russian banks from Swift, then we can speak of very far-reaching sanctions. That is a great achievement and I am convinced that the European Union really weighs on the conflict in this way. It is true that some of these sanctioned individuals try to conceal their ability through less transparent intermediate structures or through their transfer to non-sanctioned persons, sometimes in their immediate environment. Since my administration has so far applied the principle of caution, many of these interests have been frozen. Research into these complex structures requires expertise and time. Belgium does indeed succeed well in this task. Witness to this is the large amount of frozen funds and the congratulations that our country receives for this from international institutions and other Member States. Of course, we can always go better and further. I therefore confirm that a new sanction package is in preparation at European level and that we will implement it as best we can at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u88	Madam President, with your permission, I would like to put another question to the Minister. Minister, we are going to vote to use those blocked transactions and assets to finance the recovery in Ukraine. That debate is now taking place in Europe. According to Russia, that's theft. Is that technically possible, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u89	We must follow the relevant regulation, using the information and the funds only for this purpose. I believe that we now need to implement the sanctions that have been laid down, namely that funds can be frozen and that financial transactions can be stopped. I know that my German colleague at European level has called for these funds to be used, but it will first have to be verified whether this is possible. With the information I have today, I can't answer that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u90	Thank you, Minister. If anything becomes clear from the investigation of De Tijd and Knack, it is that too often there is fishing behind the grid on the blocking of Russian transactions and assets. Russian oligarchs and politicians escape these Western sanctions through all kinds of shady screen companies, including in the British Virgin Islands. We fear that the blocked transactions and assets, although in absolute terms they are significant figures, are just the tip of the iceberg of Russian money in the West. That is why, Minister, we would like to call on you to follow closely this evolution at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u91	Mr. Secretary, this is a difficult CD&V file. I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u92	Mr Vermeersch, your question concerns complex legal files that are still pending in the courts. In particular, the question of the appointment of a judicial intermediary is the subject of ongoing judicial proceedings, so that it cannot be dealt with in detail at present. In general, you are right to say that conciliation can only be successful if all the parties involved participate in it. In one of the current court cases, the court has already held that the large number of co-operatives involved in the proceedings constitutes a legal and technical challenge. In accordance with Article 1734 of the Code of the Court of Justice, it is for the court to decide whether it is appropriate to appoint a mediator by an application to appoint a mediator. It is therefore up to the court to decide whether and how the question asked can be addressed. Any decision of the court requiring an interaction of the entire government, which has not yet been taken, will of course be discussed within the government. It is in that sense that you must understand my chairman's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u93	Mr Minister, the reason I keep asking questions about the Arco dossier is that 800,000 small Flemish savers have been affected. In this file it was unbelievably messed with these people, not least by your batch CD&V. First, Prime Minister Yves Leterme promised to give a state guarantee. Turned out to be an empty box. Back then, Minister of Finance Koen Geens, also from CD&V, would guarantee the repayment in a subsequent coalition agreement. That too turned out to be an empty promise. Where the Michel administration still created false hopes by regularly debating it, this problem apparently no longer exists for this purple-green government, with Annelies Verlinden in its ranks, your fellow minister who also acted as a lawyer for the Arco savers in the file. Flemish interest believes that these Arco savers should be fully reimbursed. However, this must not be done by taxpayers. The main culprit in this story is of course the ACW, the current Movement.net. Flemish Interest demands that Beweging.net compensates the cheated Arco savers until the last euro. Until that happens, we will continue to question you in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u94	Minister, in March I read an article on the Fluxys group in the press. The Federal Participation and Investment Company (FPIM) participates for 2.13% in the Fluxys group and FPIM also has a management mandate in the company. That is what you said earlier in your answer to a question from Mr Vanbesien. The government agreement states that FPIM will develop a sustainable investment strategy and withdraw from investments in fossil fuels. By 2030, it will have to withdraw from companies that emit intensive greenhouse gases and do not engage in the energy transition. The press article showed that Fluxys plays an important role in the transit of Russian LNG, which is transported through the port of Zeebrugge. According to the recent report of the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA), it would cover 10% of all Russian LNG exports. The international consensus was and is clear, certainly in recent weeks: we need to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and thus also the indirect financing of the war in Ukraine. Lithuania and the UK already banned LNG tankers with Russian gas or prevented further cooperation. Fluxys' policy is therefore inconsistent with the federal government's attitude towards Russia and its dependence on Russian fossil fuels. How do you assess the position of Fluxys, as revealed in the IEFA report? What is the government doing to adjust Fluxys' methods? Do you think FPIM's participation in Fluxys is still in line with government policy on Russia and the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u95	Firstly, there is the role of the terminal in Zeebrugge. Fluxys LNG is the entity that manages this terminal. The CREG also acts as a regulator. Infrastructure must therefore be opened up to all in a non-discriminatory manner. This obligation can only be reviewed if the Belgian or European authorities decide to prohibit relations with representatives of Russian interests. That is not the case today. Two government representatives, appointed on a proposal from the Minister for Energy, shall participate in the Board of Directors of Fluxys LNG and also in the Board of Directors of Fluxys. They may appeal against any decision of the Board of Directors or of the Board of Directors of Fluxys, if they consider it to be contrary to the principles of the country's energy policy, including the Government's energy supply objectives. With regard to your sub-questions 1 and 2, I would therefore refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Energy. Secondly, the FPIM is indeed present in Fluxys nv's capital for 2.13%. The FPIM has made this investment to ensure that a federal entity supports and ensures the supply of energy. Fluxys nv participates in numerous Belgian initiatives to support the energy transition. In addition, Fluxys nv can in future become the transmission system operator of new molecules such as hydrogen, thanks to its technical skills and infrastructure. That is why I am convinced that FPIM's share in Fluxys nv is still justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, it's a difficult situation. We cannot be explained that we boycott Russia where possible, while the export of Russian gas does happen via roads that facilitate Fluxys. This backbone can become important in the future as a transport for hydrogen molecules, for example. As a shareholder within Fluxys, it is important to continue to stress the objectives that are also included in the government agreement. That's the job of a shareholder. A shareholder must keep that in mind. This situation certainly needs to be monitored further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u97	Minister, on 15 December 2021 I asked a parliamentary question in which your answer remained very vague. I hope that this oral question will give me concrete answers. The changes to the concept of enterprise in the Code of Economic Law also affect non-profit organisations. Since 1 November 2018, they also qualify for economic law as companies. Since non-profit organisations are now also a company, a non-profit association can now carry out any activity necessary to pursue the meaningless objective, even in the case of commercial activities and regardless of whether these activities are the main objective or not. The only demarcation criterion of the non-profit association vis-à-vis the company is the fact that the profits made by the non-profit association with the abovementioned activities may not be distributed to its members. A commercial company can distribute its profits by paying a dividend to its shareholders. This company may also award bonuses and pay increases to its board members or to certain executives. Mr President, could you please state the position of the administration in the following cases? Can a non-profit association subject to the corporate tax grant the following benefits to members of its board of directors and or some executives: warrants, bonuses and salary increases? If so, within what limits? Can a non-profit association subject to the corporate tax decide to grant a bonus of EUR 50,000 on top of the salary to one of its executives? If not, what is the acceptable limit for a bonus? Can a non-profit association subject to the corporate tax decide to grant its CEO a gross remuneration of more than EUR 500,000? If not, what is the acceptable limit for the remuneration of a CEO in a non-profit organisation? I look forward to your very clear answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u98	Mr Vermeersch, I can only answer your parliamentary question. Repeat 768 of 15 December 2021, to which you yourself referred. I made it very clear that on the one hand there are no fiscal, legal or regulatory provisions providing for limits in this respect for the various awards quoted in the given situations and, on the other hand, those awards are taken into account for the purpose of assessing the income tax to which a non-profit association will be subject, without prejudice to the application of other legal provisions. I am referring in particular to the explicit prohibition of benefits for non-profit organisations contained in the Code of Companies and Associations. The assessment of whether a non-profit association is subject to corporation tax or the legal person tax depends on all the legal and factual elements specific to the specific case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u99	Minister, it is a great pity to note that twice in a row the answer remains very vague. You will hear my question in between the rules that there is a need for a clear framework. That is perhaps the task that this committee can give you, to clarify these non-profit organisations, in consultation with your administration. In this way this vagueness remains, which is not desirable in a tax system such as that applicable in Belgium. I call on you to work on a clear framework in the coming weeks and months, because on this basis there can be no fiscal clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u100	Minister, cryptocurrency now belongs irrevocably to the world of finance. This sector is even one of the most successful and for some, one of the most worrying. You were able to see the staggering falls on the stock market of some cryptocurrency. This sector is now as much at risk as mortgage lending, which – it should be recalled – was at the root of the 2008 banking and financial crisis. In numbers, that's $1,300 billion. No one forgets that the 2008 crisis had devastating and unpredictable effects due to a lack of monitoring and follow-up, that is, a lack of regulation. Nor does anyone forget that the Bank of England and the US Secretary of Treasury expressed their intention to regulate the sector in a preventive manner in March and April this year. On 25 April, the European Central Bank (ECB) expressed the same intention. Indeed, without any standard, these gigantic assets represent a source of instability and insecurity, according to several bankers. We can't and we don't want to do without cryptocurrency. The same applies to the ECB, which has begun work to launch a digital euro. This innovation will make it possible to use the single currency to make payments throughout the euro area. Minister, what is your opinion on the regulation of the cryptocurrency sector? Will you be proactively involved in this issue at Belgian, European and international levels? Do you know the ECB's agenda on this issue? Do you think that the digital euro could reverse the current position of the dollar in global finance and international trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u101	Mrs Marghem, in general, I support innovation and therefore the development of blockchain technology. The application of this new technology in so-called virtual currencies opens up opportunities but also involves risks. In the absence of regulation, virtual currencies pose significant risks, particularly in terms of consumer protection. The expansion of the use of these unregulated currencies could be a source of financial instability. In addition, the possibility of conducting anonymous transactions, the ease with which international transfers can be made, and the absence of uniform prevention and control measures at the international level are all factors that can facilitate their use for criminal purposes. As Minister of Finance, I support all European initiatives aimed at regulating virtual currencies and the activities of virtual currency service providers. These include the proposal for a European regulation on crypto-active markets and recent legislative proposals to strengthen the European regulatory framework against money laundering and terrorist financing by extending its scope to cover all crypto-actives and crypto-active providers. In this context, it is important that Belgian legislation complies with European rules. Under this principle, providers of exchange services between virtual currencies and legal currencies and providers of preservation portfolio services established on Belgian territory are now subject to the rules on LBC/FT. The Authority for Financial Services and Markets shall be the competent authority in this respect. The Cryptoactive Market Regulation (MiCA) will come into force in 2024. Following the adoption of the new regulation, a transitional period of 18 months is foreseen in order to allow crypto-assets service providers currently operating on the market to comply with the new MiCA rules and in particular to obtain the necessary authorisations. The issue of a digital euro will have to be assessed mainly from the point of view of the payment system, the efficiency and effectiveness of monetary policy. In this context, account will have to be taken of the possible increase in the importance of the euro in international transactions and the global financial system. Conversely, the issuance of a digital central bank currency widely negotiated by other major foreign central banks could affect the status of international currencies to the detriment of the euro.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u102	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I am pleased that, at European and Belgian level, the emergence and scale of the cryptocurrency phenomenon and the regulation that will be implemented from 2024 onwards are being dealt with diligently. Of course, this is only a first step. We will have to continue to work there and look very carefully at how these currencies evolve in our monetary system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u103	Question No 55027899C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u104	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u105	If Justice delivers convictions for sale to the FPS Finance, the Finance Services will not be informed of the nature of the file, given the secret of the investigation in the criminal record. The question is therefore addressed to the Minister of Justice, who is competent. Nevertheless, Heritage Services of the General Heritage Documentation Authority are in contact with the Science Policy PPS to establish a Memorandum of Understanding and Collaboration to benefit from their experience in the fine arts and natural sciences. The increase in the number of infringements detected in relation to the importation of cultural goods is due to the partial entry into force of a European Regulation on the introduction and importation of cultural goods on 28 December 2020. That Regulation provides for a general prohibition on the introduction into the customs territory of the European Union of cultural goods which have been removed from the territory of the country in which they have been manufactured or discovered in violation of the laws and regulations of that country. The General Administration of Customs and Excise is actively involved in several projects concerning cultural property at the national, European and international levels. It is an active member of the inter-federal platform for consultation, import, export and restitution of cultural property covering all the authorities competent for international movements of cultural property. The Platform will meet shortly to finalise work on a draft law transposing the 1970 UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Cultural Goods. The law will give the General Customs Administration and Excise Administration the power to establish criminal offences in this area. At the same time, the entry into force of the second part of the European Regulation, scheduled for 28 June 2025, should facilitate customs controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u106	I thank the Minister for his answer. I must say that this event has already been dealt with in plenary by a topical matter to the Minister of Justice. In this case, all departments are concerned and somewhat concerned. There's a Justice component. There is a foreign affairs section for which I asked the Minister or Secretary of State to replace the Minister for External Relations about the transposition of the UNESCO Convention in Belgium. There is a work of art unit under the Federal Judicial Police and the Ministry of the Interior. There is the debate on the restitution of works of art. Here, we look at the functioning of the Finance Department in order to avoid auctioning works or objects of illicit trafficking. Everything's holding up. All departments are involved. I am trying to plead for coordination in the fight against trafficking in works of art and antiquities, so that all departments are properly informed. On the Finance side, we should have all the beacons or safety nets to avoid being in the situation of selling a work that turns out to have been stolen, and whose country or museum of origin asks for restitution, placing the Belgian State in a very delicate situation. As far as your department is concerned, I can only ask for the greatest attention and coordination of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u107	After your reply, Minister, I am still wondering how the Belgian government could have failed in public sales. So it is better to steal art in Belgium than, for example, a bag of chips. For stealing a bag of chips or art, the penalty is the same, but with art there is more to be earned. It is really incredible that a stolen millions of artwork is sold on a public sale of the FPS Finance and therefore of the Belgian government itself. The buyer tapped the piece worth millions of euros, on the head for barely 240 euros. Only in Belgium, I'd say. It can be assumed that the government checks that the goods were not stolen. Apparently that doesn't happen. In your reply, Minister, I also did not hear a solution in order to avoid a repetition of the facts in the short term. In the medium and long term, you are working on a legislative text, but of course that is not a final short-term solution. We will, of course, look forward to your draft law in the coming months and hope that a solution will be found to avoid a repetition of a situation in which we have completely failed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u108	Mr President, according to the current VAT legislation, only foods that can no longer be sold under normal commercialisation conditions may be supplied, for example if the expiry date of the good expires at the latest five days after the date of the donation of the good. The other legally defined possibilities for serving food under the favor scheme are: a damaged packaging, a product that does not meet the manufacturer's production standard, or at the end of the usual marketing period. Thus, the taxpayer donors and beneficiary organisation have a wide range of possibilities to benefit from the VAT favor scheme on food donations. With regard to expiry of the expiry date, the sector indicates that the five-day legal deadline is too short. Consultations with the FPS Finance and the sector have shown that extending the above five-day period to 15 days is the best solution to the logistical problem. In this way, the favour will also remain in line with European legislation in this area, nor will the risk of fraud and parallel circuits be increased. I have therefore instructed my administration to change the legal deadline from five to fifteen days. The amendment of the Royal Decree is in preparation and will be transposed and published as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u109	Minister, I would like to thank you for instructing your administration to find a solution. I have consulted the sector, in particular Mr Vanthemsche and other people from the Federation of Food Banks. They argue that the deadline should not be introduced. Even 15 days is too short to get the distribution done in a good way. It is also about cookies or pasta, for example, and these products could be given away if the product is still good for a few months, but the manufacturer finds that it is in surplus. I believe that there was no date in the previous regulation, not even five days. But one way or another, in the letter of dispatch, it slipped in. It would be good if there was no time limit, not even five days, because it could also be less, if you want to give away a bread from a bakery or from the supermarket. So perhaps the administration still needs to light up its light at the Federation of the Food Banks in order to extend or leave that period of time in a sensitive way. Of course one has to check for fraud. However, there was no such time limit in the past, so I do not understand why this should be the case now. I think 15 days is still too short.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u110	My question is more specifically about the impact on what is commonly referred to as the restoration of honour. Most convictions are automatically deleted after a certain period on the extract from the criminal record. In the case of penalties which are not automatically erased, the procedure of recovery consists in honour and rights. In order to obtain such a recovery in honour and rights, the applicant must fulfil a number of conditions. One of the conditions is, of course, that the applicant must have been punished in principle. This may therefore mean that a fine imposed was paid. That's where the shoe is pinching right now. Due to an internal reorganisation at the FPS Finance, only the digital archive is consulted and no longer the paper archive. The problem here is that in principle only convictions after 2011 were included in their computer system. Therefore, it is perfectly possible that certain fines and court fees have now expired and are no longer considered an outstanding debt by the FPS Finance. Of course, for such a recovery of honour, the time-barred fines still have to be paid. As long as the paper archives at the FPS Finance have not been destroyed with certainty, it should in principle be possible to retrieve that payment data. Because the FPS Finance no longer wishes to consult the paper archives, files for recovery are held in honour and rights for which a fine was imposed. It is not possible to say with certainty whether the fine was paid. Since these are old convictions, one cannot expect the applicant to have proof of payment. Are you aware of this problem? What actions will you take to ensure that these files are no longer held up by the FPS Justice Department? How will you avoid any possibility of verifying with certainty whether the fine has been paid in the meantime if the paper archive is completely destroyed? If the public authorities cannot comply with their obligation to provide information within a reasonable period of time, would it not be logical that it should automatically be assumed that all fines and funds have been paid in the context of the request for restitution, so that the proceedings can be prosecuted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u111	Mr de Caluwé, the application of the restoration of honour and rights in criminal matters falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. I cannot therefore express my opinion on the exercise of this right. My answer is therefore limited to a number of clarifications concerning the exchange of information on the payment of the financial penalty in the context of the restoration in honour and rights between my administration and the services of the FPS Finance. Since 1 January 2012, First has been rolled out in most offices, since 1 January 2016 in all offices of my administration. The application First allows an adequate and rigorous follow-up to the collection and recovery of tax and non-fiscal debts. First also allowed my services to switch from paper to electronic accounting according to federal government accounting rules. Subsequently, the Non-Fiscale Recovery Offices were abolished on 1 May 2022 and their powers were transferred to the teams Recovery. As a result, the recovery of the penalty payments and the confiscations can be carried out at the same time as the tax debts. This global approach also means that penalty payments can be dealt with more quickly and efficiently. In view of the digitisation and abolition of non-Fiscal recovery offices, it is no longer possible to seek payments from before 1 January 2016 in the context of a recovery in honour and rights. My administration has already consulted with the Public Prosecutor's Office of Justice in order to arrive at a pragmatic solution for the citizen. Finally, I would like to add that my administration has made a module 'generic intake' in First available to the FPS Justice Department. This generic intake allows a direct consultation of the status of files that they provide to the FPS Finance via this channel. This avoids the need to provide proof of payment by the FPS Finance for questions about the restoration in honor and rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u112	Mr Minister, the situation obviously has a major impact on the applicant, who sometimes needs this restoration in the context of, for example, his professional activities. Before the Justice Department grants the restoration of honour, it must of course know whether there are effective debts anymore. Someone who asks for a recovery of honor must have served his sentence. That makes sense, too. Of course, we can only welcome digitalisation, including in the FPS Finance. You said that there was a consultation with a view to reaching a pragmatic solution. I hope it gets there soon. In my view, it could consist in working in a similar way to OVAM in terms of contaminated land. Perhaps a solution could be worked out whereby the FPS Justice indicated that it had no knowledge of outstanding debts in such a way that the applicant could proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u113	Debates of the European Parliament 55027282C) by Mrs Leroy and Question No Mr Vicaire's 55027316C lapsed, since both members were not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u114	Minister, this is an important subject. A large proportion of fully and lightly armed customs officers need to use outdated and too small handcuffs. These handcuffs are particularly difficult to place with arrestees. Moreover, the cuffs have no wearing comfort and can cause injuries to the cuffed. In some cases, the claws of the cuffs have even proved too small for the arresting officer's wrists. In this case, assistance should be sought from a colleague equipped with more modern handcuffs of the S.P.E. brand. These handcuffs were purchased more recently, but are still not distributed to all customs officers. At present they are not even in stock at customs. That is why the outdated models are still divided among customs officers, to a great extent annoyance on the ground. For more than three years, customs officers have been appeased with the promise that the new type of buoy will be purchased. Minister, when will all customs officers finally be equipped with more modern handcuffs? I'd like to get a clear deadline so we can follow this. An intermediate solution may lie in the use of handcuff strips. However, customs authorities should not use handcuff strips as coercive measures, as they were not included in the Ministerial Decision of 24 February 2021 on arms belonging to the customs regulatory equipment. Are you prepared to allow the use of handcuff strips in a new ministerial decision? If so, when? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u115	Mr Vermeersch, by the end of 2022, the armed service of the General Administration of Customs and Excise will have new handcuffs. The award of the public contract for this purchase is under way. A new adaptation of the Ministerial Decision is not currently under discussion. Following the most recent modification of the Ministerial Decision, the use of handcuff strips has already been investigated, but it has been decided not to include them in the regulatory equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u116	Thank you, Minister, for your positive answer. We understand that our question is going to trigger a number of things. I heard your intention to provide all customs officers with these new handcuffs by the end of 2022. That would be a good thing. We will follow up on this. The customs officers have been appeased for three years with the announcement that this new type of handcuff will be purchased, but there is no solution for them yet. Until then, especially if there is a delay, Minister, I would like to call on you to allow these handcuffs, per ministerial decision, to create a temporary solution so that customs officers can do their job safely. You can also withdraw that temporary admission afterward. Minister, we will certainly follow up on this. I'm calling on you to allow those handcuff comics anyway. In your reply, I did not hear any argument as to why they could not be used, nor what the risks or disadvantages could be. You simply said that it was investigated and that it was decided not to do so. Well, I ask you to do so if you would not be able to fulfil your intention of providing everyone with modern handcuffs by the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u117	Mr Minister, thanks to the exchange of information at international level and, in particular, to European regulations - some of which I had the honour to draft when I was sitting in the European Parliament - the FPS Finance receives a very large amount of data on real estate or financial assets, which is interesting and exploitable, particularly in connection with checks on inheritance rights. However, you also know that the FPS Finances is still in charge of controlling the declarations of succession, both in Wallonia and in Brussels. Therefore, Minister, what is the administration of all this information received from abroad, particularly in connection with the control of inheritance rights? Does the FPS have sufficient human resources to process these data? Are they stored - computerically or even in cartons - to be made available to the SPF at the time necessary? Finally, do you not consider it necessary to align the exchange of information in Belgium with that which is in force from an international point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u118	Minister, in 2018, Belgium received more than 2 million tax information from abroad, divided into 644,202 non-financial information and 1,403,751 financial information. This is a particularly important mass of data. This raises the question of their treatment, especially in the context of the downsizing of the Finance FPS. Minister, how much financial and non-financial information did Belgium receive from abroad in 2021 - or for the last year available? How much of this information has been distributed in the IPP and ISoc IT applications of the FPS Finances, respectively? How many agents are assigned to displacing this data in computer applications? Is foreign information in a taxpayer's file blocking or may the official processing the file ignore it? In the second case, what percentage is taken into account? Finally, in the same year, how many tax supplements have foreign information generated by type of tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the financial and non-financial information received from abroad has been used by my administration for risk analysis and the selection of specific control missions. The latest complete information on the international automatic exchange of information is available for information received in 2020. In 2020, my administration received 1,718,459 financial information and 702,229 non-financial information. All information received for which the taxpayer concerned could be identified is transmitted to the IPP and IsoC computer applications of the FPS Finances. Currently, more than 93% of this information has been passed on to computer applications. This identification process is still under way. This percentage can be further improved. There is 98% of the identified information that relates to natural persons. The remaining 2% of the identified information relates to legal persons. Currently, six officials are in charge of processing automatic exchange of information received from abroad. They ensure validation upon receipt and monitor the processing of information in applications until it is made available. The "Individuals" Administration has put in place a filter system for foreign information relating to natural persons with the aim of achieving minimum profitability for controlled files. The official processing the file must take this into account and is therefore obliged to carry out an audit. With regard to foreign information relating to legal persons, the information is not blocked. With respect to the information received in 2019, for the 2018 revenue year, the monitoring missions were closed in 2021. These led to €70,285,714 in personal tax supplements; €9,216,697 in company tax supplements; and €542,287 in household tax supplements. In addition to the specific monitoring missions, foreign intelligence was also used in other monitoring missions closed in 2021. These missions generated surcharges of €81,645 for personal tax and €505,167 for corporate tax. Finally, it should also be noted that the information received from abroad concerning large companies is important in the context of a file review and therefore has an indirect impact on the tax supplements resulting from these controls. The exchange of data within the framework of cooperation between States and the exchange of data in Belgium shall be governed by specific provisions taking account of the purposes pursued. In accordance with these provisions, some of these data cannot be used for the control of regional taxes. My administration also collects data on the basis of its federal powers, such as in the context of establishing the cadastral income of property abroad belonging to Belgian taxpayers. At the national level, with regard to inheritance rights, the Code of Succession Rights specifies in particular the data to be collected for my administration and the purposes for which they are processed and the conditions for the issue of some of them. In conclusion, Mr Bayet, the ministerial committee approved the second action plan by which the financial information that Belgium transmits to international partners under the common reporting standard can be used for tax control purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u120	Thank you very much, Minister, for this relatively reassuring answer. I note in passing that the administration has put in place a model for risk analysis. We can see that these new regulations are bearing fruit. You have cited over 1,700 000 financial information and 702,000 non-financial information; 93% are already subject to appropriate applications. Of course, I think we can still do better with a minimum profitability filter. We see it in the numbers you give. I am obviously glad that there is no blocking information for legal persons. I am even more pleased that the second action plan is ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u121	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. Six officials bear this heavy responsibility. One might wonder if that's enough, although you told us that 93% are out. As for supplement statistics, I note: 70 million for IPP and 9 million for ISC. This is obviously not huge in relation to the amount of information. Indeed, 70 million euros of supplements for 2 million information, this amounts to 35 euros of supplements per information. What it would have been interesting to know is the number of supplements, so as to have the average of the amounts of supplements. As far as inheritance rights are concerned, I did not understand the answer or the process by which this information would be used. For example, if financial information is received, it can obviously have an interest in controlling inheritance rights. I didn't understand the control mechanism well. We can go back to the question because inheritance rights are still a matter that deserves attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u122	My two questions are very different. Too bad I paired them up. Dubai Uncovered is a new data leak revealed by the international press (including De Tijd and Knack in Belgium), which has had access to the identity of 191 000 foreign property owners in Dubai. Among these are 714 Belgians linked to 1,154 properties in the Emirate. EU citizens together own nearly 11 billion euros of real estate in Dubai. According to Knack, extrapolating on data from economist Gabriel Zucman, the estimated value of all the 1,154 Belgian-related properties is about half a billion euros. That's why. Among the Belgians on the list, some appear in other tax scandals, such as SwissLeaks, Panama Papers or Pandora Papers, especially diamond dealers. Let us remember that Dubai is a well-known tax haven, accused of offering wide possibilities for money laundering, including through real estate investments. Every year Dubai leads the Belgian list of tax havens for which companies have to report their financial payments. The Emirates is also mentioned in the Dubai Papers case, of which prominent Belgian figures are among the central protagonists. What information about the leak "Daïba Uncovered" got the Belgian tax? Will all the 714 Belgians mentioned be the subject of a tax inquiry? How many tax officers are – or will be – involved in this case? Given the large number of times that Dubai appears in cases of fraud, money laundering, crime, do you envisage specific measures against that country? I would like to start immediately on my question about the tax cell targeting the fraud of big fortunes, which has nothing to do with Dubai. In response to one of my oral questions almost a year ago, it was at the Finance Committee of 1 June 2021, you told me, minister, that "in pursuance of the government agreement and the statement of the Minister of Finance to bring together the expertise in complex and international private construction, such a unit has been set up within the ISI-CAF". I have been advocating for years for the implementation in Belgium of the recommendation made in an OECD 2009 report to create a monitoring unit specifically targeting big fortunes. The 1% of the richest can be targeted, but the 0.001% of the richest can also be identified. This represents about the country's 500 largest fortunes. Of the 58 countries studied by the OECD in 2017, 23 already had a special cell for super-rich people. From your quote I have read at the moment, it is not clear that this cell you are referring to is in line with this OECD recommendation. Minister, when was this cell set up? How many agents does it count? What is the target? Does it specifically look at the constructions of great fortunes? What are their functions? Is it just a theoretical or theoretical study of tax processes, or is it also a question of controls as such of specified taxpayers? So far, what are the results of this cell's work? How many tax cases has it processed and, if so, for what total amount of supplements?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u123	Mr President, I would like to thank colleagues for agreeing to this permutation. I won't be long. Minister, after the SwissLeaks, the LuxLeaks, the PanamaPapers – I am passing and the best – we are now coming to Dubai. This case involved 714 Belgians – of whom the youngest compatriot is a girl barely nine years old, who is now the happy owner of a 174-square-metre apartment, probably because of the mild climate in these countries... Minister, more seriously, does your administration take care of this issue? Can it confirm the information revealed by the press? Have the police and justice been seized of the case? What are their means of action? Finally, the last – which is the most interesting – question is: what about the plan to combat tax evasion that you are in charge of? Can you tell us where you are?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my administration does not currently have access to the list mentioned. However, where appropriate, a survey is launched on the basis of information obtained from various sources on Belgian property owners in Dubai. In addition, the move to certain destinations, including Dubai, is being examined in order to detect possible fictitious domiciliations. The second plan of action of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud concerns the international aspect and includes projects concerning the fight against fictitious domiciliations and abusive international legal constructions. The task of the specific unit is to combat abuses of private structures. The first recruitments took place, as well as an in-house call for candidates. Another external selection is under way via Selor. This unit will play a role of cross-cutting coordination, pre-investigation and relaying in the various operational services. It goes without saying that, after analysis, my administration will cooperate with the Public Prosecutor's Office, within the limits of all the possibilities opened by the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u125	Minister, thank you for your answers, not very thorough. You don't have access to the list: I hear it. I thought I understood in the press that you had this information. I am a little surprised at your answer from that point of view. On Dubai's role in tax fraud, in money laundering, in crime, you did not answer specifically; but I think we still have a big problem with this country. I think that if we really want to fight tax havens, at some point, we need to take coercive measures against countries that continue to dominate international financial gangsters. It's a shame you didn't answer that question. On your cell targeting private structures, I don't really have an answer about the nature of this one's work. Private structures, what exactly does this term cover? How does this target the greatest fortunes, or not? Your answer is not very clear. To the question of how many agents there are in this cell, you have not answered. You are just saying that the first recruitments have taken place and that others are in progress. No specific answer, except that there are relays in different services. I have very few answers to both the first and the second questions. That's disappointing. I won't fail to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u126	Your answer is not very precise. I understand that you still don't have all the information from your administration. In any case, voting administration must be supported as well as the justice and police forces that will collaborate on this issue because we can say what we want, Minister, even if the escape is not as such illegal, almost every time it turns into fraud. When you do fraud, it's simply because you don't want to share the common weight of life together. We prefer to buy an apartment in Dubai or an island in the peaceful rather than help our society function properly. I find that, as politicians, all parties involved, it is no longer possible to say for years that this will not happen again. We've already been hit with the LuxLeaks, Panama Papers, and I'm on it. Today's Dubai. Your responsibility as a government is to pass laws that will permanently prevent this tax injustice. We'll support you. I don't know how you do it, Minister, to explain to your family and your neighbours in your village or town how it happens that all Belgian citizens have to pay more and more taxes while the richest of us pay dear and ugly. This double cap could be discussed again by tax advisers who are both mandated to advise States and to organize tax evasion. They pay less and less. That's not fair. I hope that in your great reform for fairer taxation, you will do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u127	I refer to the written version of my oral question. The reduced VAT rate of 6% for the installation of solar panels, heat pumps and solar boilers is a good thing. New housing is also eligible, even if it is a temporary measure from April 2022 until 31 December 2023. The new regulation explicitly stipulates that the reduced VAT rate applies to work in the real estate sector, i.e. the work invoiced to the end user. The end user can be both the owner of the home and also the operator of a residential care centre,... However, if it concerns the part of the selling price of a new building house (e.g. via key on the door) that relates to these installations, then the reduced VAT rate does not apply. In this way, buyers of such dwellings, unlike families who set up their own houses as builders, are not encouraged to make such ecological investments. It is illogical, because we should make such efforts for every new home. Moreover, the buyers of such buildings are thus discriminated against. It should nevertheless be possible to develop a formula in which the end-user's invoicing can be dealt with in a different way and in cooperation with the VAT administration. Young families should not be punished because they do not have the time or the know-how to be their own builder. I don't think that distinction is fair. I therefore have only one question for the Minister: what are you going to do to eliminate this distinction between people with the same objective in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u128	Madam President, Mr Verduyckt, a VAT reduction is only possible for goods and services listed in Annex 3 to the VAT Directive. The new text of Annex 3 only allows a tariff reduction for the supply and installation of heat pumps, solar panels and solar boilers. In the case of VAT, a clear distinction is thus made between, on the one hand, the provision of a service, such as work on immovable property, and, on the other hand, the supply of a property such as the sale of a property. On the basis of the principle of 'key principle', the reduced VAT rate cannot be applied when the technical installations are supplied as part of the overall supply of a new home. Unfortunately, therefore, there are insurmountable technical objections to extending the reduced VAT rate for the supply of certain ecological installations to installations as part of the provision of a dwelling. The concept of key-on-the-door covers different loads. In the case of the purchase of a dwelling, the reduced VAT rate on, for example, solar panels does not apply. In the case of a key-to-the-door contract, which is a work acquisition, i.e. the construction of a home, the supply with the installation of the said installations may benefit from the reduced VAT rate of 6%, because at that time it will not be in the finished product.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u129	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You understand, of course, where the question comes from. We want to encourage these things through this formula. In the end, it is often young families who invest in a home but cannot benefit from that reduced rate. That's tricky. I'll take another look at your explanation. However, I understand that it is not obvious to get this right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u130	Mr President, Minister, many people have an apartment by the sea or in the Ardennes. In the corona period they were forbidden to go to their second residence. They weren't allowed to use it at some point. There has been a lot of discussion about what to do with that period. After all, the people who have a second stay pay a second stay fee, but they have not been able to use it. They don't want to pay that tax and they went to court. Some of them were right at first instance. This could be a huge file. Anyone who has a second stay in the territory of that country can simply go to the government to obtain compensation. It's about big amounts. Have you taken note of the fact that there are legal proceedings there? Do you or your administration also intend to join and become involved in that procedure? What's your assessment of this? Those second stays are somewhere and their owners pay a local second stay fee. However, the fact that they were not allowed to go to their second stay was not a local decision, but a federal decision, within the framework of the federal phase of corona. How do you see the responsibility here? Should the owners approach the municipalities or is that a potential risk to the federal budget? Are there any simulations about this? Can it be estimated what the impact could be?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u131	Mr Loones, since the FPS Finance was not an involved party in this trial before the Court of First Instance in Bruges, my administration took note of the verdict by means of the press release. However, the levying of municipal tax on second residences has no impact on federal income taxes. This tax is therefore part of the tax autonomy of the municipalities guaranteed by the Constitution. My administration will therefore not intervene in any appeal procedure that the municipality will institute. Your other questions fall within the competence of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u132	Thank you, Minister, for your clarity. It was the answer I was actually expecting. Reference is made to local autonomy. However, this is a particular legal situation because one government has taken a decision which has to be passed on to the other. The appeal procedure has since been filed. We'll follow this closely. I'm not sure the judge will follow your reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u133	Minister, I asked you last March about the commitment contained in the government agreement to introduce a datamining on Central Contact Point (CCP) data by September 2021. You then replied that your administration had prepared a study on this subject, leading to twelve specifically defined projects, stating that this study was being discussed within the government. In this study, of which La Libre Belgique has come to light, the administration regrets that it is easier in practice to process data on foreign bank accounts obtained by automatic exchange of information than to process the same data on national accounts collected under the CCP. It relies in particular on an opinion of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) delivered in August 2021. The study indicates that the status of the CCP needs to be changed through a legislative amendment to make it a full-fledged research tool for upstream risk analysis. Minister, can you provide me with this administrative study? What is the status of discussions within the government? Is there a bill in place? In what time frame? Are you considering implementing all 12 projects? The above article refers to the reluctance of the MR. However, the government agreement clearly refers to the introduction of a datamining on CCP data. Can a coalition party block the implementation of a measure contained in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u134	The government agreement provides that the administration will conduct a study to introduce the possibility of datamining at the CCP level. This administrative study has been completed and has been reviewed by the Ministerial Committee on Combating Tax and Social Fraud. Although this document is administrative in nature, I have no objection to forward it to the chairman of this committee. After constructive discussion in the ministerial committee, my administration continues to work on the basis of this study as part of the government agreement. It states that for a more in-depth review of cases where one or more tax fraud indices are found by the tax authorities in the context of datamining, the CCP may be consulted. The study deals with datamining on the understanding that it should be stressed that the existing procedure for consulting the CCP when checking a tax file is not the object of the study. I would point out that the procedure for consulting the CCP for taxing agents is strictly regulated. This is the tiered procedure as described in the Tax Codes. For example, the tax authority must first have interviewed the taxpayer before consulting the Central Contact Point (CCP), if the taxpayer does not respond or if the responses do not appear complete or accurate. In addition, the consultation must be evaluated and conducted by an official with at least the title of advisor. Finally, with regard to the similar study planned by the Data Protection Authority (ODA), it was pointed out that this task was not part of its legal tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u135	Thank you, Minister! Two good news: the study has been completed and you have no objection to it. So I hope to receive it soon. You say you continue to work on the subject and talk about a step-by-step procedure. However, in the FPS Finance document I cited, it is stated that this procedure needs to be changed in stages if a datamining is to be done on the basis of the Central Contact Point, as provided for in the Government Agreement. Are you going to undertake a legislative amendment to change this step-by-step procedure, at least as part of the datamining process? I did not have an answer on this point. I hear you're still working, so I'll keep questioning you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic791x.u136	Question No 55027576C by Mr Joris Vandenbroucke is transformed into a written question. Other outstanding issues are deferred to a future meeting.
