ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u1	Mr President, thank you for the invitation to explain here the expectations for COP27. I will go over the major themes for COP27 in a fly-over. It concerns the issues that we expect on the COP27 agenda. This can be further explored in the following statements. Where are we at the moment with the preparations for COP27? In a very early preparatory phase, we are now familiar with the two presidencies, in particular the UK, which will continue to chair the global climate process until the beginning of COP27 and Egypt, which will be the new chairman at the start of COP27 and will then be aware of the process. The practice is that both work intensively together and the practice is also that the political direction at this stage passes to Egypt. In any case, the UK and Egypt are currently holding consultations on a monthly basis with the Heads of Delegation. They first consulted on Glasgow's general appreciation and COP's expectations27. They had a second consultation last week on the issue of adaptation, which already says something about Egypt's priorities. In general, the arrangement of the COP is a fairly rigid system. The COP agendas of the various bodies that come together there consist of 95%, either of themes that are transferred from previous years because they have not yet been resolved, or of themes that were given a mandate in Glasgow or Paris for a discussion at the next COP. The role of COP presidencies in this context is to provide a political framing of the themes to be addressed by COP. It is possible to deepen certain themes that are on the agenda, while other themes are less explored. It is also possible to include broader discussions that are not on-going as such within a discussion about what we call the overarching decisions that will come out of the COP. Finally, Egypt can also launch additional initiatives campaigns. Egypt will launch a dozen of these campaigns, but we do not yet have an idea of their content. It is also important to know that the COP Presidency is a matter of rotation between the UN regional groups. It's Egypt's turn now. Egypt owes this election to the nomination by the African group. That also means that Egypt will try to turn that COP into an African COP. This means that issues such as financing, adaptation, loss and damage, access to energy, energy transition, but also issues such as the tropical forests of the Congo Basin and the Sahel are expected as themes that will also be visible at COP. It is still early to make an assessment of the priorities. Generally speaking, we have five main priorities. To a large extent, these priorities have been transferred from Glasgow. A first is the objective of keeping the 1.5 degrees Celsius objective within reach. A second is to strengthen adaptation and make the system on loss and damage operational. A third is climate finance, both in the short and longer term. Then global stock take. That is actually the cycle of ambition of the Paris Agreement, which is now in a technical phase. Finally, a wider range of topics that should actually mean the transition of the climate process from a standardising process of developing multilateral rules to a process that supports, supports and provides a political stimulus for implementation and increasing ambition. I will briefly highlight these five themes a little bit more. As regards the mitigation aspects, Glasgow's demand was to have new targets by 2030. That question has been pretty well followed up. 151 parties have effectively submitted a new, or updated, target. These objectives are far from sufficient in terms of aggregate to achieve the reduction level required to meet the 1.5 °C target. These targets result in an increase in emissions of 13.7% by 2030, while the 1.5 °C target actually requires a 45% reduction. There is also a fairly good follow-up to the long-term climate neutrality strategies presented and a wide range of sectoral initiatives on mobility, the reduction of steel emissions, renewable energy, hydrogen and the fight against deforestation. With the slide, we present the impact of the NDCs or the nationally determined contributions, i.e. the new targets of the sectoral initiatives and the long-term objectives by 2030. On the left you will see a scheme drawn up by the Secretariat of the Climate Treaty on the basis of their calculations of the impact of the NDCs. You can see the red block on the top left. That's the effect of NDCs. It is clear that that effect remains quite a bit above the blue scenarios. The blue scenarios are the objectives of the Paris Agreement, the objectives below 2°C and the 1.5°C. The drawing is from Climate Action Tracker. That think tank also analysed the objectives. The bar diagram in dark blue on the left shows the real-world action, so what is already being done effectively in terms of policy. There you will see a wide range ranging from 2 °C to 3,6 °C, with 2,7 °C as the middle of that range. The think tank has also done the measurement of what it would be like if the NDCs, the 2030 targets, were fully implemented. Then one reaches the middle figure of 2.4°. (the purple diagram). He also calculates the situation in which the long-term objectives, which are politically anchored in legislation, are fully achieved. You'll come a little lower. Finally, there is the optimistic scenario. That is the scenario in which all political announcements and all sectoral plans are adopted and fully implemented. However, that is not a realistic scenario at the moment. However, it is important that it properly quantifys the potential for the future of the various measures, plans and intentions. Climate Action Tracker has also made an analysis of the different NDCs at national level. Of course, it is delicate to show such a card. I think it is interesting, because it makes it possible to make a number of significant observations. It is particularly important to look at those countries that, according to Climate Action Tracker, are currently failing in their ambitions. Examples include Mexico, Brazil, Russia, Australia, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam and also the Philippines. These are important countries on which the EU can focus its climate diplomacy and with which the EU, following the South African model, can also develop partnerships to see how the objectives can be increased. South Africa is shown in green. In the run-up to the Glasgow climate conference, that country was the subject of a far-reaching partnership with the EU to accompany and co-finance the energy transition. At the moment, the EU is looking in particular at Indonesia and Vietnam as potential candidates to apply that model to. What is to happen at the Sharm-el-Sheikh climate conference on mitigation? The Glasgow climate conference clearly confirmed the 1.5°C target with its short- and long-term quantification. In addition, a decision was taken on a work programme. The main negotiations in Sharm-el-Sheikh will concern the design of that work programme. That work programme should provide an incentive to increase NDCs. This is also accompanied by a ministerial discussion in which there is an important potential in aligning the current NDCs with the long-term strategies. As can be seen from the previous slides, sufficient countries have submitted an NDC for the Glasgow Climate Conference. The problem is the level of ambition of these objectives. The political challenge is therefore to set these objectives on a path that is coherent with climate neutrality by the middle of the century. I will also briefly discuss the other issues. Adaptation together with loss & damage will be very strongly on the forefront at the Sharm-el-Sheikh climate conference. The Glasgow Climate Conference reached agreement on a work programme on the new goal on adaptation. The whole issue may seem rather abstract, but at the root of this political discussion lies the frustration of developing countries and especially Africa that the Paris Agreement is fairly quantitatively formulated for mitigation but contains a very qualitative definition of adaptation. In other words, the pursuit or strengthening of capacity in the field of adaptation and the realisation of resilience, without sufficient follow-up and without a clear international benchmark on how to achieve it. What will be dealt with in Sharm el-Sheik is making adaptation easier; ensuring that there is a system of methodology, with indicators; clearly assessing the needs, what support is needed; and looking for a system to ensure progress in adaptation. The financial side is also important, given the commitment we made in Glasgow: the doubling of funding for adaptation. As regards loss&damage, and this concerns the damage that occurs after the provision of mitigation and adaptation efforts, the challenge is mainly to create an international system. We now have a network of all relevant international actors. It is staffed with a secretariat which can provide technical assistance to the countries when they wish to use that network. However, the big outstanding issue is that provision should also be made for a financing system for loss&damage. On the next slide you will see a drawing from the IPCC report, which was finalised ten days ago. I think it gives a complex but good overview of what the challenges are in terms of adaptation and loss&damage. You can see on that drawing on the left the different scenarios regarding the reduction of emissions. We are currently on the orange curve, so the curve in the middle. This will then be translated into the impact and risk for the five large risk categories identified by the IPCC in the field of adaptation. The first category concerns unique ecosystems. It's about the glaciers and coral reefs. At the first beam you can see that with the current temperature warming of 1.1 degrees we are already in a moderate to high risk. The second bar is about extreme weather events, such as the events in the Walloon Region last summer. That's where we're at a fashionable risk right now. The third bar is about the distribution of impact, so the impact on vulnerable countries and groups. The fourth bar is about global aggregate impact. This is about the impact on ecosystems on a global scale. The fifth bar is about large-scale events, such as the change in ocean circulation. That beam shows the impact in the different temperature scenarios. With current emissions, each of these factors comes into a high risk zone. This means that the adaptation policy of a fragmented policy must be developed in a systematic way, which also has a heavy financial cost. This also means that there is a lot of damage in those scenarios that cannot be solved with additional adaptation efforts, and which therefore fall under loss and damage. This shows that there is a direct correlation between what we achieve in terms of mitigation, and the extent to which adaptation and loss and damage are becoming increasingly important on the international agenda, as we do not achieve sufficient emission reduction. I would like to talk very briefly about climate finance. We've had the discussion about the 100 billion. According to the delivery plan agreed in Glasgow, we should reach the target by 2023 at the latest. The Glasgow agreement contains a clear call for the target to be achieved from the coming year and up to 2025. In Sharm el Sheikh we will be in the first year of negotiations for a new funding objective. This should be seen as a cyclical process, which is technically prepared with feedback to the political level, with annual ministerial discussions as well. The major challenges for the EU are mapping and taking into account the financial flows in climate finance. The perception of developing countries is still very often that we are trying to visualise these financial flows in a broad sense and thus walk away from our responsibility for public funding. It is difficult to develop a good narrative around there, although this proves crucial since public funding is only a fraction of climate finance needs. The extension of the donor base must therefore also be pursued. Until where we stand on climate finance. Finally, I would like to highlight two more points. A first point concerns the cycle of ambition of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement was built up with a five-year cycle of ambition, with new targets to be submitted by 2025 from 2030 onwards. This is preceded by a technical process in terms of mitigation, adaptation, financing and funding flows. That technical phase will be fully on the agenda this year. That is when we are looking at where we stand and what paths we should develop for the future. Options must also be put on the table to close the gap between reality and the routes envisaged. This is an important process that will be strongly on the agenda this year and next year. The last major issue is one that is more difficult to grasp in the sense of a concrete political debate. In Glasgow, with the agreement on a remaining aspect of transparency, with the agreement on a common time framework for objectives and, in particular, with the agreement on Article 6 and the market mechanism, we actually reached a conclusion to the negotiations on the multilateral regulatory system. This means that from now on, the climate process needs to be refocused from a process that develops rules to a process that facilitates implementation and increase ambition. This means a process that is much less in itself, that communicates much more with other international institutions, that communicates much more with the different stakeholders and that also pays much more attention to sectoral initiatives. We will see new initiatives being launched in Sharm-el-Sheikh. However, it is also important to keep an eye on how all the announcements made in Glasgow are actually being implemented. This brings me back to that optimistic scenario that was in that image of the Climate Action Tracker. Taking into account all those announcements and effectively realising and supporting them, that is actually the essence to be able to land at a level of climate warming that is somewhat manageable. I will leave it at that and look forward to the presentations of my colleagues and your questions. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u2	Mr Lenaerts, I would like to thank you for your very interesting presentation. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bruyninckx, Director of the European Environment Agency, for a presentation of up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u3	Mr President, thank you for the invitation of the European Environment Agency to contribute to this debate. I will try to shed light on the matter from a European perspective. This is very important, because a large part of Belgian policy ultimately concerns the implementation of European agreements in this area. I would like to start by saying, and it has been said by Ulrik too, that climate policy cannot be separated from a number of other challenges that we face globally. Everyone of you, of course, knows the IPCC, the Panel on Climate Policy. But also the work of the panel on biodiversity, the IPbes, the panel on ressource, IRP, International Ressource Panel, and the World Health Organisation come to the same conclusions when it comes to fundamental challenges linked to the earth system that is disturbed, namely that we are at a time when we need to take urgent action because a number of windows to solve issues are closing. We are already dealing with irreversible consequences. We notice tilt points in that system and the things are connected to each other. I'm gonna focus on climate, but it's important to take that context with me. You know the answer to these challenges at European level, that is the European Green Deal, where the first objective is to become a climate-neutral continent. You can see the link with those other elements that I have just proposed. Biodiversity, circular economy, which, of course, refers to raw materials, resources. But also zero pollution and farm to fork as important elements, coupled with health. The just transition. But also an investment plan and an industrial strategy. In other words, I think we are talking about a social revolution that is necessary, an economic revolution, to meet those challenges. I always say the Green Deal is not an environmental and climate plan. This is a plan that deals with political, economic and investment priorities. There's a strong systemic logic in it. There is a strong message about sectors, and I will come back to that. Interconnectivity. It requires long-term policy planning horizons. 2030 is the stepping stone to 2050 and certainly not an end point. The social dimension which is at the heart of all the discussions today. Of course, there is also a governance agenda attached to it. I think that this is an excellent agenda that concerns a parliament. That systemic transition is clear. We are not going to address the climate problem, nor those other problems, by focusing on the energy system alone. I fear that the debate is still too narrowed into the energy system. It's also about our food system. It is also about our mobility system and in general about systems of production and consumption that not only have a carbon footprint, but also a larger footprint on the planet. When it is proposed in this way, it is also clear that these are not problems that can be solved by simple technological interventions, but that they are problems that require a social solution. Further zooming in on climate, you have the European climate law, the climate law, which you all know. By 2030 it will be -55 % emissions. Climate neutrality, like zero emissions, by 2050. When you see the picture, then the systems from the previous picture all come back. They are contained in European legislation. This package has then been translated into a number of analyses - Fit for 55 - which will examine whether European legislation, but also national plans, is in line with that 2050 target of climate neutrality by 2030, with - 55%. It is clear that this does not allow business as usual. It's business as unusual from now on. Exceptionalism has no future. We estimate that about 10% of emissions will remain by 2050. When I listen to the sectors - mobility, energy, agriculture, chemistry, heavy industry and households - they all think they can make a disproportionate claim to that 10%. If everyone thinks they're exceptional, we won't get there. The goal must be to become climate neutral and then we will have to fight to achieve that 10%. What is also clear is that, in addition to the removals, the technological solutions, we have to rely mainly on those natural systems. This means that we need to strengthen and make these systems more resilient, otherwise this model will not be right. To see where we stand, I have used the graph of 1990, the base year, until 2020. You see a certain slope in reducing emissions. If we look at 2030, we will have to accelerate this reduction by 2.5 to 3 times a year. Whoever thinks we've done a lot and is on the limit of what we can do, this doesn't match the ambitions. What is equally clear is that we will not get there with the model of optimising existing technologies and systems and making them more efficient, the efficiency paradigm. We'll have to go for systemic changes, otherwise we won't get there. The target was 20% by 2020. Now we're going to - 55%. You may think that this is 35%. If we look at the policy options that are already being implemented by Member States and are effectively in the pipeline, we will arrive at around 41% on a model basis at European level by 2030. So the policy gap, the policy gap, is about 14%. That is a different perspective than 35%. With this I would like to bring some realism to the fore at European level. You've already seen the next picture on the slide, so I'll skip that. Of course, implementation also counts for Europe. Announcement of plans is one aspect, implementing them is another. Europe is at the forefront of this issue in other regions of the world, but there are also implementation issues in Europe. We're looking at Fit for 55 and everything that needs to be done. You will find that this is in all sectors. Part of it is covered by the ETS, the emissions trading system, which regulates at European level where we need to come out and countries are kept to the agreements. A number of other issues are more in the field of efficiency sharing, such as transport and mainly agriculture, which are much more based on national legislation and plans. They are managed at European level, but not at European level. On the bottom right you will also notice taxation. You know that Europe has little or no competence in the field of taxation. That is also national matter. Where are we in Europe in 2020 compared to the starting position? We look at four key policy targets: the reduction of emissions in efficiency sharing, renewable energy, final energy consumption and primary energy consumption. On the red triangles you notice quite intuitively which countries are not doing so well at what level. You will notice that Belgium is lagging behind in achieving its objectives. Together with Bulgaria, we are the only country that failed to achieve three of the four objectives by 2020. We are now looking at the 2030 policy gap. We have made an assessment of the policy announced and how this is consistent with the effort sharing. That is mainly national policy. You will notice that Belgium is one of the countries with relatively the biggest policy gap, together with Ireland and some other countries, such as Estonia and Luxembourg. There's a pretty big policy gap. In any case, the number of measures does not depend on it. Member States should report to the Agency how many policies they take. Belgium reports the highest number of policies. The question is therefore how coherent and strategic these policies are, and how informed and analysed they are. You can tell by the second and third bars. That's the second and third bars you see. The ex ante assessment and evaluation is a relatively small proportion of what is reported. An ex-post evaluation of this policy is not immediately the norm of the day in many Member States, including Belgium. A few Member States have a stronger tradition in this area. Think mainly of Ireland, but also countries such as Germany have a strong tradition in the thorough ex-ante assessment of policies. Installing the tradition of a thorough policy review will have to be part of the institutional solution. Another risk we see is medium-termism, with 2030 as an important endpoint. We have analysed the investments in gas and coal in Europe. We estimate that with the current gas investment cycle, there could be 20% of stranded assets in Europe by 2030. This means that we need to think about where we are now in that debate, which is driven by what is unfortunately happening in Ukraine now. This is an important analysis being made. So much for the mitigation. Then let's look at the adaptation. As Mr Lenaerts has said, there is clearly more attention to adaptation in the debate. Europe has a new adaptation strategy based on what we are already seeing, but also on model predictions. You know these predictions, for example, of precipitation patterns. Belgium is a country that will have more rainfall on an annual basis, but less in the summer. So we have to adapt to too much and too little. Those pictures look very scientific. I can translate them this way, too. Here you see the floods we've known here. On the other picture you can see not the Niger, but the Rhine in Germany after the extremely hot summer in 2018, where there was a threat to the energy system, the agricultural system, navigation. This is the translation of those two graphs into more speaking images. The same can be said about forest fires. We are much more at risk in the current trend scenario, together with other places in Europe. This is what we are already seeing and what we can expect more from Europe up to Scandinavia. This is also a game changer in the agricultural sector. This is an analysis made by Professor Van Passel about the loss of the value of agricultural land. You will notice that it amounts to between 20% and 30% and more, including in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. Those are serious changes with an immediate impact (???). It is possible to adapt to this by means of action programmes. An example of this is the Dutch Action Programme on Climate Adaptation Agriculture. Of course, geopolitical consequences are also to be expected. I give a personal anecdote: 30 years ago I did my PhD research on this theme. I had to do that in the United States because my professor in Belgium said that a doctorate should be about something serious. I've been doing it somewhere else. It is now a very topical issue. Fortunately, around adaptation there is an accelerated build-up of knowledge. We are responsible at European level for the Climate-ADAPT platform, for which we work with all Member States to bring together examples, good practices and analyses. There is a great deal to be found here that can be used in the development of policies. An important part of this policy is the adaptation of cities in Europe. Belgium is a very urbanised country, so there are challenges for urban innovation. I'm not going into that too much. You know what that context is. If we want to work with climate adaptation and mitigation based on natural systems, then the connectivity and resilience of ecosystems are very important and landscape fragmentation and hardening are very important elements. We live in the most fragmented and hardened part of Europe. That's what's going on. That's the future. So we are a hotspot for further fragmentation and hardening I took that slide out in the interest of time, but there too we have a problem. This makes the analysis and the link between biodiversity and climate change very difficult for the middle red line, which has been made clear at European level, through nature restoration and nature-based solutions. Proper spatial planning, the use of biodiversity and its strategy and connectivity are therefore essential elements for the future, not only for adaptation, but also for mitigation. Another link that is being made more and more is the link between health and climate change. We have integrated this into the Climate-ADAPT platform through the European Climate and Health Observatory, where we work with top scientists on this subject, but also with other European agencies, such as the ECDC in Stockholm, which is now familiar with the covid cards. Why is that important? We see a significant increase in the number of people over 65 experiencing heat wave days. We estimate we're at about 200 million people. This is an observation of Uccle, where the upper line shows the mortality on certain days and the lower line shows the maximum temperatures. If you ever want to give a course in statistics and talk about correlation, you have a good example here. So that's what we stand for. This shows the connection between heat waves and vulnerable population. The people who die are often elderly, but they are also people with underlying diseases. That is why it is important that we learn how to deal with it. This will require a new paradigm to address these issues at system level. Intellectually and politically, the green arrow is interesting. We will experiment, accelerate solutions and institutionalise policies and provide financial mechanisms in this area. Then we'll have a better future. Of course, that's important. The European Environment Agency believes that there is far too little attention to what we need to phase out. By phasing things out, space is created to accelerate and scale solutions. There will of course be social conflicts and opposing opinions. Policy must therefore create facilitating conditions or enabling conditions. It concerns the phasing out of fossil fuels, but also of environmentally harmful subsidies. We've been talking about that for 25 years. It is also about unsustainable tax arrangements, unsustainable spatial planning, which unfortunately continues, but also unsustainable distribution mechanisms that make measures socially less acceptable. We do not know very much about this, we do not monitor it very well and we do not give our scientific institutions much mandate to follow it up. At European level, too, we are raising this issue. An important mechanism here is taxonomy, shifting investments in that sustainable direction. This can be an important manual, to push not only public but also private capital and especially the connection between the two in a good direction. The social factor is put forward quite a bit with the slogan Leaving nobody behind. Everyone uses the slogan We need a socially just transition. It is now important to translate this into concrete policy and to bring together knowledge about it. Social policy and environmental and climate policy are two very fragmented knowledge systems which are brought together very little. We are now doing this with a number of other players at European level, but I think bringing together the necessary knowledge to give that socially just transition content, follow up and be able to underpin it with effective knowledge is also a challenge for the knowledge institutions at Belgian level. It may be a bit confrontational, but in terms of fundamental governance architecture, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Germany are example countries. They have a climate law, very clearly defined national targets for 2030, already defined targets for 2050 and an independent climate council that monitors and advises policies. These issues also exist at European level, including a climate council which will enter into force from April and is embedded in the European Environment Agency. I hope this will encourage you to see Belgian policy in a European perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u4	Mr Bruyninckx, thank you for the respect for the 20-minute speaking time. I now give the floor to Mr. Wittoeck, Chief of Climate Change, FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. Let's go for his presentation of a maximum of twenty minutes too!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u5	Mr President, thank you very much for the invitation to this hearing session. I will try to add a few additions here and there that could be interesting pointers for your further debate. Mr Lenaerts has already explained in detail the outcome of COP26 in Glasgow. That was an important COP because the level of ambition is now once and for all focussed. The 1.5 degree is now at the heart of political attention. I ended up on this slide at an earlier hearing after COP26. It's a quote from Alok Sharma, the president of that COP, saying that the 1.5 degree is sharp and within range, but the patient is weak. His pulse is weak . Everything now depends on further action because the gap is still very large. That was also clear from Mr Lenaerts' presentation. We are talking about emission reduction, but also about financing action in developing countries and adaptation. This summarises very briefly the main processes started during COP26. In summary, this is the agenda for the UNFCCC negotiations for the coming years. Here is also the Global Stocktake, a process that is now becoming operational for the second time. That is the five-year ambition mechanism of the Paris Agreement, which Mr Lenaerts spoke about. I won't waste any more words on that. As I said, the previous presentation was very complete in that respect. Let me show you another quote from Mr Sharma. He, of course, described his COP as historical. What would you be like? Here you will see him during a session of the Chatham House in February 2022. But at the same time he also said that these are just words on paper, if we do not honour the commitments we made in Glasgow. I would just like to focus on some of the commitments that can be relevant to national policies for us as a country and not just as a Member State of the European Union. Not the first, of course, because that is really European policy. Hans also talked about this, our 2030 target, as it is now translated into the Fit for 55 package. The appeal made in Glasgow to bring the NDCs, the 2030 targets, to review and tighten them where necessary, to align them with net zero emissions worldwide by 2050, in line with the 1.5 degree target. It is a question of whether this also means that Europe must review its own ambitions. I think it's a theoretical question, in all honesty. I have no knowledge of any discussion on this at the moment in a European context. The focus is now really on the legislative package that the European climate law needs to translate into operational policy. What has also been a signal from Glasgow is that the parties that would not have done so are not part of it, Belgium did submit a long-term strategy. In Paris it was decided that this should be done by 2020, or parties were invited to do so by 2020, but very few have done so. The quality of many of these strategies is questionable. Belgium has also submitted a strategy, as I said, but if you look at the objectives set out in the Belgian long-term strategy, we will not be able to achieve the net zero emissions that we have now decided in Glasgow that we need to comply with that long-term strategy. That was not the case before. It is the first time that the UN, UNFCCC, has made it clear that these long-term strategies must function from a fair transition to net zero emissions. The question is, given that the Belgian long-term strategy does not meet the requirement to aim for net zero emissions, you can see for yourself why that is, whether that strategy should therefore be revised and re-submitted to the UN. When the Consultative Committee adopted the current strategy, at least they left that option open. There is no formal national objective of carbon neutrality, or net zero, or climate neutrality, call it what you want, but in the decision of the Consultation Committee, you can read it on this slide, a common will was formulated to strive for carbon neutrality, and the idea that the long-term strategy will be updated, in function, among other things, of the European policy that is currently in full swing. This decision dates back to European decisions on the European Climate Law and Fit for 55. An open question, which may be worth an interesting political discussion. What we will certainly have to do, since the European regulation on energy union imposes it on us, is to review our National Energy and Climate Plan. You will recall that at the end of 2019 we submitted a national energy and climate plan. "The Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030' is the full title of that document. You may recall the strict wording used by the European Commission in its evaluation of Belgian plans. On the slide you will see a schematic and tentative calendar of the preparation, the design, of our updated national energy and climate plan, to be submitted to the European Commission in June 2023. In it is a federal part and, of course, a national part. At another hearing, which will be about governance, I suggest that we go into more detail about what the European Commission had to say to Belgium at the time, not least about the need to integrate these plans. Integration was an important element in the European Commission's assessment, but we are now, of course, in a context of increased ambition. One of the legislative dossiers in the context of Fit for 55 is the increase in national targets in the non-ETS sectors, in particular buildings, transport, agriculture and waste, which need to be translated into national policies and thus into national energy and climate plans. On this slide, which you may have seen before, I will once again show you the potential impact of the numerous measures in the current plan. If all the measures in the plan are implemented, then we are on the yellow line in the graph, the downward trajectory. The blue line in the graph indicates the projections provided by the Regions if the policy is not implemented. In the context of climate neutrality, with the common will, the European climate law and so on, it is only a question of whether we are actually approaching climate neutrality with the current trajectory. After all, there is no national climate neutrality objective. It is not imposed by the European Union for the time being either. We will have to evolve in this direction if we are to contribute to European climate neutrality. We need to get the yellow line further down to avoid the break in 2030 that appears on this graph. We are talking about more than a factor of 2.5 from 1.3 million tonnes per year to 5.2 million tonnes per year. If we wait any longer, we'll need a much larger multiplication. There has also been talk of adaptation. That is in international policy, but also increasingly in European policy. The European adaptation strategy adopted last year goes a lot further than the previous one and goes, among other things, towards taking into account the damage caused by climate change to our economy. The images speak for themselves. The macro-fiscal or macroeconomic aspects, the potential of disrupting our financial and economic stability, are elements that are now in European policy. These are not alarmist cries, these are things that insurance analysts have been giving us for years. It should also reflect on these elements, which is what the strategy calls for in national policies. The first Belgian national adaptation plan is behind us. This covered the period 2017 to 2020. We need to prepare a new adaptation plan now. At federal level, we're already working on that. We hope to get the approval of a set of federal measures in the Federal Government by mid-year. By March 2023, under the same legislation, the Energy Union Governance Regulation, we must also report to the Commission on our national planning and strategy, as well as on the energy and climate plan. Unfortunately, I cannot say much more about this at the moment. Let us take a look at international policy. The financial component, supporting climate action in developing countries in particular, is a very important factor, including in Glasgow and certainly in Sharm-el-Sheikh. In Glasgow, a number of processes were launched, namely a new quantitative target from 2025, with the continuation of the dialogue on long-term financing, the decision on how we will not only finance the Santiago Network for Loss and Damage, because that is about several tens of millions of euros or dollars per year, but also how we will create a financial leg, if we want to do so, for the costs caused by loss and damage in developing countries. These are all matters that are in the hands of Belgian Development Cooperation in our country, partly together with the Regions. I'll show you the numbers in a moment. One of the key elements in Glasgow is the commitment of donor countries to seek a balance between financing mitigation in developing countries and adaptation in developing countries, with more specifically a collective doubling of adaptation funding by 2025 compared to 2019. It is interesting to have a look at the Belgian situation in this area. We're sitting very well there. The vast majority of Belgian climate finance goes to adaptation. The following has also been explained by Mr Lenaerts. We have yet to achieve the 100 billion we promised by 2020, but we have not achieved it, until 2025, when that new objective will come into force. It may be useful to look at Belgium in the context of these processes. This is an analysis made by the NGO ACT Alliance early last year. This graph expresses the proportion, the ratio of donations, only that part of climate finance, i.e. no loans, which provide countries in terms of international climate finance, relative to their wealth, expressed here as gross national income. You can see the red cube right there. It is not big, Belgium is not in the highest category. The map shows even more clearly the relationship between climate finance in the form of grants and gross national income. This is how our climate finance has evolved over the past decade. The black block is the federal components. You know how the powers are divided. Each government engages in development cooperation and contributes to climate finance. There is also national burden-sharing for the period 2013-2020, which imposes minima. The federal government is well above what burden-sharing imposes on us. When we look at what we have reported in the context of the delivery plan, which Mr Lenaerts spoke about, we see that the prospects for the coming years and the path of growth that we can still see come entirely from the additional efforts of the federal government, in particular the Department of Development Cooperation. I would like to say immediately, and I do not show this on this graph, that there are also analyses that estimate that, on the basis of parameters such as our CO2 emissions and our GDP per capita, a fair Belgian contribution to that EUR 100 billion would be the tenfold of this. That's what I'm gonna say right away. Financing in the context of the Paris Agreement is not only about financing action in developing countries, it is also about transforming our entire financial system. I would remind you of the third objective of Article 2.1 of the Paris Agreement. That is an objective that is at the same level as the temperature targets. We need to make all investment flows in the globalised economy consistent with the other objectives of the agreement, in particular the 1.5 degree Celsius temperature target and the goals to move towards a low carbon economy and a resistor economy. That is a very important objective but a very difficult process to deal with within the UN. The outcome of the Glasgow discussions reflects that. Much more than underlining the urgency of the objective, such a COP can hardly do so. In any case, people are struggling with how COP can do that. Of course, it's in other spheres. Mr Bruyninckx mentioned the European Sustainable Financing Strategy, with all its components. The most famous is the famous taxonomy, of course, but there are many others. I will give you immediately, as far as you did not know, that at the level of the federal government, ministers Khattabi and Van Peteghem are preparing a national sustainable finance strategy. That strategy is still in the study phase, but it is part of the pipeline. It must ensure that Belgian policy can be tailored to the direction of investment by the financial sector, but also that the government takes the necessary policy measures in its role as an investor. Glasgow wasn't just about negotiated decisions. Many pluralistic, often sectoral agreements have been made, not by consensus among all parties, but often by a large number of parties. Of course, some of these political statements require follow-up. In the past, these political statements were often sick in that bed. They were signed by many countries, but often lacked the follow-up mechanism. Glasgow has made an improvement in this respect. One of the most important explanations, in terms of what impact they could have on emissions, which was endorsed in Glasgow, was the Global Methane Pledge. Belgium has also endorsed the Global Methane Pledge, which aims to reduce methane emissions by 30% by 2030. Well, it's not just that Global Methane Pledge's collective ambition. There is a commitment to take action at national level as well. In a recent letter, John Kerry and Frans Timmermans, the initiators of the Global Methane Pledge, translated that commitment into an invitation to the signatory countries to draw up a methane reduction action plan and submit it to the next ministerial meeting of the members of that Pledge, at COP 27, in Sharm el-Sheikh. Another important process is focused on a number of key technologies and sectors that cover more than 50% of global emissions. That process is aimed at achieving technological breakthroughs in those sectors or at ensuring that the technologies that can help us towards net zero emissions become the norm in those sectors. The sectors mentioned are, of course, electricity production, passenger cars, the steel industry, the hydrogen industry and agriculture. There may be additional workflows around shipping and buildings. These workflows are the subject of a broader process led by the UK Presidency, in cooperation with international organisations, such as the International Renewable Energy Agency, and are linked to ministerial processes such as Mission Innovation and The Clean Energy Ministerial. The process will therefore also receive the necessary impetus from the political level and intends to be repeated annually. There is also the Statement on International Public Support for the Clean Energy Transition. As far as I know, Belgium is now talking about what is in it as commitments, in particular, the cessation of public aid, public money for investments in fossil fuels outside our borders, taking those commitments into account in our role as members of the governing committees of the multilateral development banks, something which, of course, also requires decisions at national level, and so on. Similarly, non-state actors, civil society and often the private sector, have made a series of statements, often towards a commitment on net zero emissions. That is also very difficult to follow. This has led António Guterres to create a specific process for this, a high-level expert group that must determine how we can measure and analyse this. That this may be necessary is illustrated by a report from the NewClimate Institute and Carbon Market Watch earlier this year. They have looked at how the net zero commitments of 25 very large companies have translated. According to the analysis of those two institutes, that's relatively relative, what you see in this graph. According to the analysis, instead of the red reduction corresponding to real net zero emissions, only the much smaller beam would be realised by the company itself. In part, this is because offset is included, but that is only a small piece, but also because, for example, they do not use their power as an economic actor to turn their suppliers lower in the value chain to net zero emissions. That's an important element to take a good look at. At least that is illustrated by this analysis. I cannot say nothing about the current new context, the energy price crisis. Last week, the European Council issued the Versailles Declaration in response to the Russian attack on Ukraine. Now I'm discussing what's in it in terms of energy. At any rate, it is clear at this level that our climate objectives and the role of energy policy are still at the heart of this. We hear from some quarters that there are different priorities now than climate policy, that we must now, for example, first look at how we deal with the major consequences of the energy crisis. I would like to show you some quotes by Frans Timmermans in the European Parliament, a few months ago, with which he actually opens an open door. If we had already been further on our transition to climate neutrality, the impact of energy dependence, dependence on fossil fuels, would have been much less. There was much less of an energy price crisis in the European Union. To illustrate how this can play at Belgian level, I'll show you one of the graphs from our scenarios that can bring Belgium to climate neutrality by 2050, graphs that we presented last year and many of you have already seen on occasion of other presentations. If you look at buildings and transport in households, a Belgian transition path to 2050 between 2018 and 2030 would mean more than halving the dependency of households on fossil fuels. How has that been translated into financial terms, because we are talking about this to a large extent, and about the invoice for families? This transition and reduced dependence on fossil fuels would result in a reduction in the energy bill in our model from around 1,700 euros per year to around 800 euros per year on average for Belgian families. This is without taking into account what is currently happening with gas and electricity prices and fuel prices. At national level, this translates into savings of more than EUR 4.5 billion. Those are the orders of magnitude we're talking about. On the energy transition, I am now projecting it into the future here, but that is actually also what is underlying the quote of Vice-President Timmermans of the European Commission, whom I have just shown you. He also stated in the same statement that we must not fall into the trap of climate objectives and bring social objectives into conflict. It is often pointed out that the carbon price increase in the current ETS has indeed increased significantly. He made this quite clear in his speech to the European Parliament in September 2021. Here I will show you the evolution of the carbon price in the current European emissions trading market between 2013 and early 2022. As you can see, most increases are actually the result of supply and demand in that market itself. The only link you see in this graph with what is happening on the energy markets is that there has been an increase in prices because there has been a problem with gas supply, the price of gas, which has led to a shift towards more carbon-intensive energy sources, such as coal. The result is an increase in the demand for allowances and, since it is a market of supply and demand, an increase in the price. No one denies that there has been a sharp rise in that carbon price in the current ETS, which has gone over 100 and has now fallen somewhat. If one then looks at the impact of the increase in that component of the energy bill, then this graph is striking. In grey you can see the evolution for some countries of the price of natural gas. The increase is clearly noticeable. The increase in electricity prices follows, of course. In blue, at the bottom, you can see the impact of the increase in the cost of an allowance on the European emissions trading market. The increase in these components is hardly noticeable compared to that other component, the gas price. A second aspect that is important in terms of carbon prices is that, contrary to what our energy system pays to import fossil gas or other fossil fuels, the money paid for a carbon price does not disappear from our country. That is not money that contributes to the profit margins of the major international energy companies. The carbon price that Belgian companies, and in the European Commission's proposal in the future also Belgian families, would pay, is, for the most part, directly and indirectly returned to our own economy. You can see here our most recent estimates of how that income for Belgium would evolve in a linear price path of relatively low, 53 euros now, up to 100 euros in 2030. That can be called a conservative estimate in the context of how prices have now evolved. We then look at revenues that the European Commission's proposal suggests can and should be used for climate policy, including the correction of any negative social consequences. This is in the billions a year and is certainly relevant, also in the context of the discussions on how to deal with the impact of energy prices on families. We must, of course, bear in mind the social redistributing impact on the families that the new ETS BRT, i.e. the ETS for Buildings and Road Transport, could have. This scenario is based on a price of EUR 60 per tonne. But the same picture arises when one calculates 100 euros per tonne. When, based on what families consume, we look at how the carbon price translates into an increase in the annual energy bill, we get this picture. On the left we see the poorest families, the first income decile, and on the right we see the tenth income decile, especially the ten percent richest in this country. Intuitively, it is true that this will be more for richer families because they consume more on average than the poorer ones. How do we deal with that? How do we ensure that this does not lead to an even higher burden on the poorest, but not only on the poorest? One can do this by paying back the income that one realizes, by the fact that the families pay a carbon price, for example as a forfait. Each family, regardless of its assets, will be reimbursed the same amount, in the form of a climate bonus, as one might call it. Then one sees the difference between what families have paid in blue and what they get back in white. This gives a positive redistributing effect. Net income for poorer families on average on such a construction, while the richer families will make a relative contribution. Of course, this is just one scenario. It's the simplest scenario, where every family gets a similar flat climate bonus. Of course, many other scenarios are conceivable. Then there is money left to pursue other policies. You can see that in red and blue, on top of the white bar on the left. For Belgium, then, there is still the potential income of the Social Climate Fund, the European corrective instrument proposed, and so on. I wanted to give you all this, now that everything is happening in the context of the energy crisis and the social dimension is so important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u6	Mr Wittoeck, thank you for your briefing. I propose to move on to the questions and comments of the various political groups. I invite everyone to clarify who they are addressing their questions. I will give the floor to the speakers when we have taken a look at all the questions. Colleagues, may I ask you to introduce yourself and let us know which Parliament you are members of in order to facilitate the work of the services. It's 12:41. If all the groups present speak, it will take 45 minutes. In other words, if each of you speaks for 5 minutes, or even a little more, the three hours that are allotted to us will be respected. I therefore ask you to limit yourself to your questions so that everyone can have an opportunity to speak and our guests can have time to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u7	I would like to thank the three speakers for the comprehensive information. The discussions in the light of the COPs remain partly the same. This is clarified in relation to a number of mechanisms. For example, the theme loss & damage has been hanging over our heads for a long time. Each COP is subject to pressure, but not every COP is progressing. The question is, of course, whether that theme will be finished at the next COP. Will we carry with us that theme and its consequences, namely the fees, which are also linked to the financing, many COPs? Each time we move this is perhaps a bit rudely said, a few millimeters in that story, and sometimes a millimetre backwards, but I do not have the impression that we are evolving towards solutions, just because it divides the different countries very much. What are the prospects? Can we take steps forward in this, as one of the priorities? I hear a call for more commitment to renewable energy, with Mr Timmermans' quote. On an individual basis, I think that is quite right, but I do not know whether this is the case in the global package. At the moment we are paying high prices to the energy sector, because the current energy crisis is a major price crisis. Just at times when the input of wind and solar energy is very low, we see huge prices passing through the market. By the way, we would occasionally forget, with these very high prices, but our nuclear power stations were modulated last weekend because energy prices were too low. In any case, will the supply of solar and wind energy also have sufficient effect in the electricity sector so that it continues to go in the right direction? There was also a very discourse here that the increase in CO2 prices is very limited, fortunately. Of course, it is very limited, especially compared to gas prices. But that factor will continue to play a role. On the other hand, we are not only paying for the CO2 emitted today, because as long as there is one gas plant running in the electricity system, we are not only paying for the CO2 emissions from that gas plant; the CO2 costs are also being paid to all other suppliers on the market. It is then argued that the CO2 savings are not gone, do not leave. Anyway, what we pay to all other providers, of course, leaves. Can such a system continue to exist in the longer term? Is it then in favour of increasing the CO2 price very sharply? I have a little suspicion that our last gas plant will not close down next week or the week after that. So over time we will continue to pay more and more the equivalent of CO2 in the electricity price, until the last gas plant is closed. However, we are talking about about about 2040. Is there not a need for a different methodology for these costs, because I am concerned that the system will be derailed in this way? Of course, that fits in with today's energy price debate. It has often been argued in the past that a little less attention should be paid to nuclear energy. I have also recently heard European Commissioner for Energy Simpson clearly argue that, when it comes to the impact of CO2, not only look at renewable energy, which used to be the general undertones, but also to make investments in order to extend the lifespan of nuclear power plants. Shouldn't a clearer map be drawn in Europe? I am aware that the perpetual discussion of nuclear energy between Germany and France - the rest is in one of the two camps - is taking place here. Anyway, conclusion on this would allow a number of steps to be taken and that we could take a stronger position than we are doing now where we sometimes appear slightly disabled on the starting line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u8	I'd like to thank the gentlemen. I'll ask my questions to the point. Mr Lenaerts, you referred to a number of issues that will become important at COP27. You said that the goal of keeping the warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius was set. You have begun to give a number of figures and facts that our group cannot fail to understand. It is clear that more efforts are being made at international and European level. Our country - as our group has always advocated - must play a proactive role in this. But on the basis of Mr Bruyninckx's painful, honest analysis and Mr Wittoeck's, I have to conclude that we are failing and that we need to step up our efforts. Mr Lenaerts, did I understand correctly that, referring to the IPCC report, you warned that issues such as loss and damage and adaptation will only become more important and certainly need to be taken into account in international negotiations? Is that a correct assumption? Are there any other important insights from that IPCC report, which could strengthen international cooperation? A second question is addressed both to Mr Bruyninckx and to Mr Lenaerts, and is also on another subject raised by Mr Lenaerts when it comes to COP27. That's the last slide he showed me, where working together is a key word for me in all those things that were on this slide. It is about cooperation between countries, but also between experts. It has also been referred to by Mr Bruyninckx and it is also a bit off-topic because the next hearing will be on climate governance, but Mr Bruyninckx is not there, so I am going to ask my question here for a moment. The European Climate Law confirms that scientific expertise is an absolute requirement and should also form a basis for the climate action and the efforts we will make to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. It was therefore decided to set up a European Scientific Advisory Council on Climate Change. I would have liked to have seen a brief discussion on how this advisory council will work and how Belgium can support the substance of the work of that council. This can provide important insights. Thirdly, I found Mr Bruyninckx's analysis very clear and very concrete, but also very painful, if I may be honest. I was pleased that he insisted that if we want to tackle climate change, the climate crisis, we need an economic revolution that is wider than just the energy story. It is also about food, production and mobility. This requires a social solution. It is true, of course, that it is also important for the Greens that the transition is fair. You yourself referred to it, as did Mr Bruyninckx. Clean energy for all is also very important for us greens. How can we also increase access to green energy outside Europe? Do you have any suggestions as to how we can do that? I have heard you say that knowledge must be gathered, even within Belgium. Perhaps you could make that a little more concrete and mention how we can do that outside of Europe. Finally, I come to Mr Wittoeck. You have indeed given a number of important additions and also looked back at the COP in Glasgow. I take it that we should certainly look at what the European Union had to say about our National Energy and Climate Action Plan at another hearing when we talk about governance. I'll ask that question next time anyway. Belgium is not currently a member of the High Ambition Coalition. To what extent will that damage our negotiating position during the COP in Egypt? Do you have any idea where the lockdown is? How important do you think this coalition is in the international climate battle?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u9	Mr President, I am a Walloon Regional Member. I thank the three speakers for their very clear presentations. As Mr. Lenaerts recalled, the COP26 statement urges the parties to double international funding. We're talking about $100 billion of unmet funding. Mr. Lenaerts also stressed that the perception of vulnerable countries was a sensitive and blocking point for a comprehensive transition. So my questions are as follows. Belgium is not fulfilling its ambition. Mr Wittoeck said that we should increase this funding by taking account of GDP and our emissions. Would our country's position of arriving at COP27 without an increase in international funding be sustainable? Can we expect a clear budget commitment for this multi-year funding – what we hope – additional official development assistance? More specifically on the additional financing mechanism Losses and damage – since in this area too, apart from the Walloon Region, which has committed to deliver one million, we have no commitment from Belgium – what are the next steps we need to plan for in terms of operationalisation? I also have a quick question for Mr Bruyninckx who stressed the importance of having a biodiversity orientation in the context of adaptation, a real life insurance. I'll meet him. There are signs that there are demands to reduce the CAP's biodiversity ambitions in order to produce more cereals that are missing at world level. Does the Agency also receive these signals? Are you paying attention to it? Is reducing the CAP's green ambition a risk? I come to my last question about fossil fuels. A decrease in our exposure to fossil fuels really makes sense, both in terms of the social response to high energy prices and in terms of climate. Do you have a precise diagnosis of Belgian public subsidies, all entities, to fossil fuels? What measures do you consider most relevant and urgent to reduce Belgium's public subsidies to these energies? I will end with a comment. You all recalled the importance of not limiting the climate issue to the electrical component alone. You can see that part of this message unfortunately still does not reach its destination. We are fully aware of that. None of the sectors will be able to escape the efforts that must be made. We must all be aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u10	Mr. Speaker, I am a Member of Parliament in the House of Representatives and I will be the only speaker for the PS Group. First of all, I thank all the speakers for the clarity of their presentations and for the valuable information they contained. COP27 takes place in Egypt. This place is certainly symbolic if we consider the threat of climate change to Egypt and to the Red Sea, as the rise in water levels has already swallowed up several thousand hectares of agricultural land in Egypt as a result of this phenomenon. Egyptian cities like Alexandria are now threatened with extinction, as are other African cities. Finally, the biodiversity of the Red Sea is already severely affected by rising temperatures. At the dawn of the second part of the sixth IPCC report published on 28 February 2022, particular emphasis should be placed on the issue of vulnerability and adaptation. While, in 2014, the IPCC still focused on the potential future impacts of climate change, now the present is privileged. Whatever happens, this phenomenon has and will have effects on the world, even in an optimistic scenario. This means that we must and will have to put in place policies to adapt to these changes in the developing countries as well as in the industrialized countries. The notions of loss and damage, loss and damage will necessarily have to be taken into account and subject to ambitious measures at future international meetings. The COP26 declaration already devoted a chapter to this point and, in general, I would like to have received information on the follow-up to commitments made in this regard since November. More specifically, the statement refers to the importance of providing further enhanced support to activities dealing with loss and damage with the adverse effects of climate change. Have specific initiatives been launched by the relevant bodies? Can you tell us what you think could be the subject of new initiatives at COP27? What is your analysis of current international loss and damage policies? At COP27, the creation of the Santiago Network was decided to catalyze technical assistance in the event of loss and damage. We know that this network could be operational within a few months. Do we know if significant progress can be expected by COP27 or COP27? A second important point in the report concerns the concordance of climate policies with the social accompaniment they require. It is essential that the fight against climate change does not make our societies unequal, especially since the most vulnerable populations are and will be the ones for whom these consequences will be most felt. We know that this is being taken into account in the global review process of the Paris Agreement. In November 2021, a collection of information was carried out on this subject. A first technical opinion is expected in June 2022. Have you received any information on the implementation of Article 2(1) of the Paris Agreement with regard to the global response to the threat of climate change in the context of sustainable development and the fight against poverty? Have any progress been made on the issue of carbon emissions responsibilities? Belgium, either on its own initiative or as a Member State of the European Union, made a number of commitments in Glasgow last November. How will our country follow up on the commitments made by the European Union during COP26? More specifically, what progress has Belgium made with regard to the declaration on public support for the transition to clean energy? What is the difference in status of the initiatives to which Belgium is now associated when these commitments are subject to national accession or are part of a European accession? Indeed, several initiatives discussed in Glasgow have been submitted to the Belgian Greenhouse Gas Coordination Group or will be coordinated within this group. How should these texts be dealt with within this group? Has a timetable been established for this? In recent months, several texts on European ambitions for reducing CO2 emissions and energy transition have been published by the European Commission. I am thinking in particular of the European climate law, the Fit for 55 package of proposals and more recently the REPowerEU strategy. Although this covers a large number of measures, what is the impact of these texts on the international agenda? What is their influence on the discussions? A similar initiative to that of the Border Carbon Adjustment Mechanism is beyond the scope of the European Union. Was this point raised at the COP? In view of the fact that negotiations are still to be held in the coming months, do we know whether discussions with non-European entities or countries should take place? Also in connection with the energy transition, the COP26 declaration referred to the issue of coal-related greenhouse gas emissions and called for accelerated efforts to phase out coal-based electricity. It also calls for a gradual end to fossil fuel subsidies deemed to be "inefficient". We must recognize that these formulations are rather vague. The gradual elimination of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies suggests that efficient fossil fuel subsidies appear to be possible. I must admit that I find it difficult to understand it, as do the members of my group. Can we have you back on this? Furthermore, we know that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has a certain impact on European energy policy, including the REPowerEU strategy I mentioned earlier. Can we get your opinion on the impact this situation could have on international climate policy discussions and issues? I am aware that the subject before us today is exciting, but our time to discuss it is not unlimited. As I do not wish to encroach on the speaking time of colleagues, I would like to punctuate my speech by addressing the issue of gender, which is essential and increasingly taken into account. We can be happy about that. But as indicated in the IPCC report, can you provide us with your recommendations on how gender commitments in the COP26 declaration and the IPCC report could be implemented across Belgium and the EU?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u11	Mr Lenaerts, what you said at the end of your speech was interesting, namely that you hope that climate warming will remain somewhat manageable. It may be up to me, but I understand something different from the 1.5°C reduction under the Paris climate agreement objective. Let us be honest: a great deal is said about this in political circles, and Mr Wittoeck said that France remains on course, despite the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. However, I believe that the opposite will be proved in the coming years, and that this 1.5 degree drop will unfortunately prove too ambitious. There are some signs on the wall already. Firstly, according to the International Energy Agency, we have never emitted as much CO2 as in 2021, so post-covid. We can already see that those countries that already play a major role in CO2 pollution, such as China, prefer energy security rather than reducing CO2 emissions. Furthermore, the economic recovery of last year by several agencies is not considered to be a sustainable recovery. That is the reality, regardless of the attitudes. CO2 emissions increased by 6% to 36.3 billion tonnes, the highest level ever, according to the Agency. This is also confirmed by the Global Carbon Project of the American and British universities, which the speakers also mentioned. This project indicates an increase in the use of fossil fuels, in particular by coal plants in China and India. That is the reality at world level with which the EU must work. The current energy crisis with its high prices seems to have little impact on dependence on fossil fuels. Even before the war between Russia and Ukraine broke out, gas prices were already rising, and then the governor of the National Bank of Belgium, Pierre Wunsch, said in line with one of the last reports of this bank: "If we can no longer spread the cost of the climate and energy transition, there will be major price fluctuations." If we, as a government, slow down investment in fossil fuels - gas, oil - as we are doing at European level, production will automatically decrease. The big problem in Europe is that renewable energy production is not growing at the same rate. If we block nuclear investment again, then the Belgian government has still not taken a position in the taxonomy debate. That is the big problem, which Pierre Wunsch clearly stressed: these two speeds are not aligned. So, for the record, that's not about being for or against the transition at all. As far as the national level is concerned, where the hearing on governance might go into more detail, I do not know how far the National Climate Commission stands with the agreement on Burden Sharing, but I am very curious about the revision of the Belgian National Adaptation Plan and the NEKP in the coming months. I can't imagine one government taking that one way or the other. We don't hear much about that at the moment. You yourself admitted, Mr Wittoeck, that the adaptation plan is currently somewhat darkened. You have also given the example of the Belgian long-term strategy. In the end, it is about a common will, but what does that mean in politics? We've heard about that before. Should the conflict continue in the East, will there not be any impact on the Fit for 55 legislative package, the implementation of the European climate law in the coming years? Yesterday, at the hearing on price formation in the energy market, it was literally said that a temporarily adjusted CO2 price could be proposed, i.e. a temporary reduction. FEBEG proposed this as an opportunity to reduce prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u12	Mr President, like my colleagues, I thank the various speakers this morning. Given everything that has already been said by my colleagues and the relevant questions that have been asked, I will not be very long. However, I shall start with a regret: none of the people we had proposed to audition have been retained. We regret that the Belgian climate ministers are not being heard on this issue. Ministers were present at COP26 and will be present at the next COP27. As several speakers have said, political decisions will have to be made. The Belgian climate ministers could have explained to us the reasons for the failure of an intra-Belgian agreement, but also the avenues put in place to reach an agreement for COP27. As some say and repeat, it is time to take action! Between today and November of this year, the date of the launch of COP27 in Sharm El-Sheikh, a window of crucial opportunities opens up to the leaders, yet they should seize it. The key to success will be to show that the promises made will be fulfilled, to demonstrate that, even when countries feel they have gone far, they can go even further, to accelerate the implementation of all the objectives and to build on a spirit of cooperation and compromise with other countries in order to achieve truly global climate action. The various stakeholders are not very optimistic that countries will meet their commitments as well as about the climate future. What do you think should be put in place to ensure that everyone respects their commitments? What are the guarantees to reach an agreement under COP27? What should be done to that end? Is a parliamentary resolution a good way to work? As Mr Wittoeck mentioned, the impact of rising energy costs on climate objectives and on households should not be overlooked. We in our respective parliaments will have to take care of this. One solution you follow is to use income and pay the package to households. What other scenarios are possible? The United States, France, the Netherlands, England, Germany, etc. invest in nuclear energy. Mr Wittoeck, would investment in nuclear power enable Belgium to achieve its CO2 targets? With regard to geopolitical influence, my question joins that of Mrs Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u13	In relation to the persons interviewed, I encourage you to convey your remarks to the head of the delegation of the Brussels Parliament. I'm sure he'll be very attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u14	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the speakers for their enlightening remarks. The context of this debate is, of course, quite different today than it was a month ago. Russia has started a criminal war in Ukraine, which, in addition to a great deal of human suffering, also accelerates the debate on the phasing out of our use of fossil fuels. First of all, I have some questions about REPowerEU and the Versailles Declaration. There are two trends in this. On the one hand, we want to speed up the roll-out of the Green Deal for more energy independence, on the other hand, we are looking to replace Russian fossil with non-Russian fossil. Which slope do you think will weigh the most? Can you clarify what's in the scaffolding for the acceleration of the Green Deal, especially with regard to the plans to boost renovation, energy efficiency and renewable energy? Will there finally be a socially just plan to help citizens make the sustainable transition? My second set of questions concerns the future of Fit for 55 in the light of the current crisis situation. With regard to the Energy Taxation Directive and the new ETS for transport and buildings, more than ever, there is a demand for climate and social justice reconciliation. These proposals aim to increase the tax burden on fossil energy, while we are now seeing that all governments are forced by exploding energy prices to reduce energy taxation. I am therefore asking myself what is still the relevance in the current policy context of proposals that citizens and businesses want to push towards transition through price signals, because we see that current high energy prices do not automatically ensure this. As far as the existing ETS is concerned, it was supposedly finally beginning to work with the increase in emission allowances that we saw last year, but just after the start of the war in Ukraine, that price crashed again, because Russian speculators sold their reserves massively. How long can it be justified that we need reductions in emissions to remain below 1.5°C still depend on such a market? Then there is the new IPCC report, which highlights the challenges of adaptation. I have a few questions about this too. What additional efforts do you think should be made in terms of international climate finance to ensure that the Global South can adapt to the consequences of climate change, which they have not caused at all, but feel first and hardest? What are the different views of the European Member States on an additional financing mechanism for loss and damage? The IPCC report also warned against maladministration. According to the IPCC, this includes the focus on technological carbon capture that we saw at COP26 in the context of the zero-carbon ambitions, but how do you evaluate the global policy trends in effective emission reduction versus carbon capture? I also have a question about the mitigation. What do you expect from Belgium and Europe in adjusting their NDCs? Finally, we also see that the Energy Charter Treaty and similar treaties still allow fossil multinationals to stick sticks in the wheels of countries that want to pursue a better climate policy. Do you have any idea how we can put an end to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u15	It is not the first time that current events have put the challenge of climate change in the shadows. After the corona crisis, there were rising energy prices and now all attention has been drawn to the conflict in Ukraine. In the meantime, the IPCC, like all other national and international bodies, will continue to publish reports informing us about the consequences of further climate change. We are now faced with a number of consequences here too. The annual climate conferences also continue. The following takes place in Egypt in the month of November. Although there is always a lot of media attention for these conferences at the moment, the whole thing still remains a black box with an output that is not tangible for many citizens. Even for those who are present personally, it is often impossible to know what is on the table and what is ultimately decided and by whom. Great declarations are always on the table. From personal experience I know that it is a very interesting meeting place for consultation, for the exchange of knowledge and best practices. However, it bothers me that it has also become a media circus that both heads of government and action groups eagerly use. Hearings such as today are of course very useful to be able to assess where we are now. We can study the relationship between climate challenges and a thoughtful energy transition in a difficult geopolitical framework. There is no doubt that we are striving for climate neutrality. We are all more aware today than before that the ambition of climate neutrality must be viewed with a piece of realism and without ideological dogmatism. The exit from all fossil energy sources, combined with an exit from obsolete nuclear technology, will only be possible if the transition to renewable energy in a meaningful and well-thought-out way is made and a new form of nuclear energy will undoubtedly form part of it on the one hand, and on the other hand, to other carbon-free energy sources, without having to take the intermediate step towards additional gas plants. That's the big challenge. So my question is how do you see it in the current context? How do other countries in the world see that? To what extent do this energy crisis and the war create additional obstacles to the climate transition? Do you sometimes see it as an opportunity to move an acceleration higher, but with realistic objectives? Are these recent developments taken into account in the preparatory talks? I heard one of the speakers say that there is no mention of the current context. I'm sorry about that. You may say that you are not ready, but it should be a priority to look critically at the way we have worked. I have always heard many words, but there are too many actions missing from this dossier. There are too many objectives and too few action plans. If we are to rely on the construction of new gas plants, we must also ask ourselves whether our claim to climate leadership is still credible. How do you evaluate the position of the other world blocs since COP26? Do we - and then I speak as an entrepreneur - not do too much? We want to score on all fronts, not only climate, but also socio-economic objectives. We also want to rewrite the financial system. You want to change the whole world. I would rather hear you say that there are one, two or three objectives that we are really going for, for which we find the resources and to which we attach a prize, an action plan and responsibilities. Finally, do you consider the successive reports and conferences, which often circulate mainly within the inner circle, to be the most appropriate way of achieving progress? Isn't the support for the over-ambitious targets just languishing by setting the bar so high that everyone knows they're not feasible? So shouldn't we talk less and do more?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u16	Thank you on behalf of our federal group. The previous speaker referred to the large number of crises of recent times. The corona crisis is not on the agenda for the first time today in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. People are currently in the Defence Committee talking about the war in our continent. There will soon be an extensive dialogue with the Minister for Energy on the energy crisis. There are many crises, but I just want to make it clear that the biggest crisis and challenge is still the one we are talking about today, namely the warming up of our planet. Reference was made to the latest IPCC report, which is very clear. The global warming is going to hit faster and harder than we expected. I've been reading the reports on the Amazon forest for the past few days. Mr Leysen spoke of a form of realism. Well, when one reads that, one finds that this is the reality today. These other crises, which certainly create instability in the world, must not distract us from the ultimate goal to be achieved by the next COP. Whether or not this is a media circus is irrelevant, Mr Leysen. The most important thing is what we can achieve at COP. That's what it's really about. Mr Bruyninckx said that the debate should not be confined to a purely energy debate. Many Members have spoken about this today, and I too would like to say a few things. The question is whether this international security crisis and the new mantra that we need to put an end to creates opportunities for our dependence on fossil fuels. I read on the one hand that the United Kingdom is considering using shale gas as an energy source. I understand that we are introducing additional shale gas from ships from the United States today. I think there are opportunities, but these are very fragile. This is due to a number of other trends. I'm also on a committee where there's talk of bitcoins. We note that mining of bitcoins has reopened coal mines in America in order to meet energy needs. When we debate in this House a small aircraft tax for short flights and then see the turmoil that this causes, at the time when our energy prices explode, I find that the mindset is not all right with everyone. There was a very interesting debate yesterday on the current market model for energy, which largely clashes with its limits. I think everyone agrees with that today. What concerns me in this respect is that this market model does not sufficiently ensure that we convert these investments into renewable energy, which is absolutely necessary. An additional problem is that the low production price of renewable energy is still too low in the current market model. This is an important discussion that is currently taking place. I understand the point that we need to be careful with measures that bring fossil fuels back to the forefront. However, I do not accept that remark in full, because the measure to reduce fossil energy consumption is the high price. It will certainly have an impact, but structural measures are needed. We will have to tell the people who can pay it today that they have to invest in their homes, for example, by isolating it. Solar panels are a profitable investment today. For those who cannot afford it, an important target group, we will have to come up with collective solutions, in which the government accepts its responsibility. However, we certainly must not put climate assessment on hold temporarily and pretend that the problem does not exist, as Mr Ravyts proposes. I don't think that's a good move. My questions relate mainly to international tensions. To what extent are they a threat to these kinds of international climate summits? Mr Lenaerts said that according to the Climate Tracker, Russia is not on schedule. I can imagine that it is not politically evident at the moment to discuss the climate with Russia. According to the literature, however, both Russia and China face a great deal of pollution from global warming. Think of the thawing of the permafrost, glaciers, rising sea levels and the drought problem in China. It is, of course, difficult to assess the extent to which this will pose a problem in order to get back together and make the necessary decisions. My other questions have already been asked by colleagues. I will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u17	I shall now give the floor to our guests.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u18	I must say that I am a little overwhelmed by the wealth of comments and the many pertinent questions. It is difficult to give a good answer in a short space of time. I shall therefore confine myself to a few questions which have come back a number of times. I'm trying to make a certain assessment. One of the questions that often came back was the question of the relevance of COP and of the reports in the light of the new international topicality. To what extent does it have an impact on the climate process? To what extent does it change the priority for climate? I must say that from my point of view, I am working for the Department of Foreign Affairs and in our internal consultations, the issue of climate priority has been constantly raised versus other international developments and crises. My experience from this long period of foreign affairs is that it is always asked whether climate remains so central, but that we in our department see international events in a broad sense and that there is an increase in the importance we attach to the European climate debate, the importance of the IPCC reports, and so on. I do not really see the importance of climate in the current crisis, however serious it is, of course. Of course, there will be an impact on the climate agenda. The issue of our energy dependence is now, I believe, much more prominent on the agenda. Our department attaches great importance to cooperation with African countries in the field of adaptation, and the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine certainly represents a challenge in this respect. That's what I'm afraid of. It is very difficult at present to assess to what extent the conflict in Ukraine will have an impact on the extent to which Russia will act in the multilateral system. We do not know whether they want to block certain things. We also have difficulties in cooperating with Russia in many areas, but we have to wait and see how it evolves further. It also asked a number of times for adaptation and loss and damage and the extent to which they become more important on the agenda. The story I've brought is also the story of the IPCC and of communicating vessels. If we fail to bring emissions below the Paris Agreement's temperature objective, this will have a direct impact on the importance of adaptation and on the pressure that is being put in place to cope more with adaptation and loss and damage. It was asked whether Sharm-el-Sheikh would be a breakthrough in terms of loss and damage and whether decisions would be taken there. There is a clear evolution in this: in Paris loss and damage came from the taboo sphere. In Paris it was recognised to discuss loss and damage multilaterally, but compensation and liability were kept out of the debate. We have evolved towards operationalising the cooperation on loss and damage, and I expect that operationalisation at COP27 will also be effective, with the appointment of an entity that controls the Santiago network and can offer those technical facilities to countries that are asking for it. But the big open demand is then the wider financing of loss and damage. I do not know when it will take place, but the question is that the international agenda cannot be ignored under the current circumstances of acute climate impact and the additional findings made by the IPCC is beyond question. The issue of the wide funding of loss and damage will remain high on the agenda. It's impossible to tell when she's gonna get her hands on it, I think. Then there was the question of international climate finance. Does Belgium do enough? What else can happen? Graphs have been shown on the increase in Belgian climate finance. We have evolved from a multi-annual average of around 100 million annually to 125 million or more for the coming years. That's a solid assessment. This additional climate finance is supported by the federal level. The Regions in Glasgow have committed themselves at least to maintaining their current level of climate finance. That means we've been able to present a growth path. For a number of entities this has bought some time because the expectation is that we have a growth path for the different entities. A question was asked about what more we can do about the gender issue. What are we gonna do about that? I think Belgium is already doing quite a lot about gender in international cooperation. We have a thematic strategy, Sahel, with a budget of EUR 50 million for the coming years. The clear agreement is that each climate project must also be assessed against its impact on gender. That is an example, especially in federal development cooperation. We also fit that into other strategies back then. So there's progress in that. The weak point in the field of gender is actually the knowledge about the dissegregation of the impact of climate on different genders and climate policy. We do not pay sufficient attention to developing and applying a good methodology in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u19	There is a problem with the duration of the interventions. To be precise, there are currently 15 minutes left. We have to finish at 2:00 p.m. I know that the challenge of global warming is immense and that the questions are enormous, but I ask you to be concise in your answers. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u20	I am done and I give the floor to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u21	A lot of questions have been asked. Those who want more complete answers from the Environment Agency can contact us. We always answer with the knowledge we have. I'll focus on a few things now. Loss and damage is indeed on the agenda and will not go away. We published a report two weeks ago, with EUR 500 billion of climate change damage already being identified on the basis of the information provided by insurance companies in Europe. That amount will only increase in the coming years. We shall therefore also have to deal with this. The focus must be on the poorest countries. The way in which in climate negotiations all countries that are historically thrown under the G77 plus China are not always really helpful in the negotiations. The poorest countries must be the focus. In addition, the mechanisms of funding for this are being developed, which are important. The 100 billion dollars from the climate fund and the discussions on other sub-mechanisms must be placed in a world economy of 90 trillion dollars. In other words, this is oil in a machinery that will have to change much more fundamentally if we are to deal with the financial mechanisms that determine sustainability or non-sustainability. We will indeed observe the secretariat of this new European Scientific Advisory Council on Climate. What that council will do is defined in the law. The Board will draw up its work programme independently. On the basis of scientific research, that Council will carry out a policy evaluation of European policy. Are you gonna be okay soon enough? Does it make the right accents? Some sort of gap analysis will be carried out. Alternative policy instruments will be considered. The link with the Member States is made with climate councils. No link can be made with Member States that do not have such a climate council. So it will be a bit difficult to do that with Belgium. The analysis of the CAP on biodiversity has been made sufficient. If you would like to read a very neutral but tough analysis of this, I would refer you to the European Court of Auditors. The Court has made a hard analysis of the CAP on the non-achievement of its environmental objectives. The discussion is going on there. A change in our food system is needed. By continuing to focus on agriculture as a segment of that food system alone, we are making things difficult instead of facilitating them. The most important thing for natural carbon capture is the strengthening of biodiversity, soil biodiversity, the restoration of ecosystems, especially those that can store a lot of carbon, wetlands and petlands, for example. These are just the most endangered biotopes in Europe. Not to mention, the marine environment is also particularly important in the carbon cycle. Questions have been asked about the level of ambition. Is 1.5 degree ambitious or too ambitious? Well, the IPCC report makes it very clear that the ambition to adapt quickly enough to a temperature increase of 2.5 or 3 degrees is unfeasible. So I think we should be ambitious, and we have every reason to be ambitious. This is increasingly well-founded, not only by scientific modelling, but also by observation of current reality. Questions have been asked about the Ukraine crisis and the price signals. It is clear that people do not respond to the price signals. These are crisis price signals. It has never been the intention of any policy path, either European or Belgian, to use such price shocks in the short term, rather than price increases, but shocks as a policy instrument. So I think the question is a little bit off. It's about the long-term paths. You will notice this with all kinds of shocks: there is a recovery, but the long-term trajectory is important. In fact, price signals play an important role in the European system. The social dimension of innovation wave, the European Bauhaus, but also the just greening of taxes are important signals. We are talking about environmental tax reform in the OECD and in the European context for two decades. We have also recently published a report on this subject, which I can summarize briefly with the sentence:it's going nowhere. One knows how it works and it can be used much more, even with the social dimensions in it, as Peter Wittoeck has shown in his analysis, but one does not use it. At Belgian level, it is about the revolution of the energy system. An Energy Week, as it is called in German, requires constant, coherent, sustained and ambitious investment over several decades. In Belgium's energy policy over the last two decades there have been some characteristics that I do not find very much instantly. That has already been analysed in great detail. What's ahead now must mean a gear. In my view, the answer is a European one. Energy production is now a kind of stronghold of national sovereignty. We do not mind importing whole parts of our food, but any description of national sovereignty, from several hundred thousand people to the 86 million Germans, thinks that it should organise its own Energy Week. I think a more European approach would help us further. It must be made clear that what is being done in Belgium is also closely linked to what is happening in the Netherlands, France and Germany. I think that coherence is often lost. If you have any questions, please contact me. I guarantee you that within ten days we will give an answer with the knowledge we have. We are bound by such rules of courtesy and information sharing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u22	Thank you. Indeed, if one of you wants to communicate a note, additional documents, you always have the possibility to do so via the secretariat. We will be happy to relay this to the various parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u23	The debate was very rich and many questions were asked. It reassures me that the climate problem has not disappeared in the shadows, as someone said. In any case, the level of public awareness we do every few years has shown to my own surprise that the climate problem in full corona crisis last autumn caused a representative sample of the Belgian population more concern than the health problems. So little has changed in that respect. Even though that was before the war in Ukraine, the poll shows the importance that is still attached to climate change in society. According to our analysis, therefore, the basis of support is certainly not disappearing. In view of the decisions taken at the highest European level, I have also shown them to you - I do not have the impression that the political basis is disappearing. It wasn't during the corona crisis. European recovery policy had a double underlying objective: the green transition and the digital transition. Those who have read the Belgian national recovery plan were able to see how ecological that was. So the climate problem is not overshadowed by the corona crisis, quite the contrary. As far as possible, this crisis has been made an opportunity and, in the longer term, solutions to the climate crisis. I believe that the current energy price crisis, reinforced by the war in Ukraine, should also be seen in this way. It was alleged that the COP agreements were a blackbox for the citizens, but I believe that there is sufficient public communication, without becoming a media circus, so that citizens can be sufficiently informed. We are also doing our best to provide as much information as possible and as widely as possible. There were a lot of interventions about the energy crisis, including how energy prices are achieved on the market. I'm not an expert on the subject. It certainly seems to me to be a relevant discussion, but you need more of an energy and market specialist to see how prices are put on the European energy market and how renewable energy sources can be promoted worldwide. Reference has been made at some point to the analyses carried out by the International Energy Agency, which would have set the highest emissions ever. I do not know in which report that is exactly described, nor do I wish to deny that analysis. In any case, the International Energy Agency, through Director Fatih Birol, has been very committed for a number of years to the necessary contribution of the energy system to the net zero objective. That used to be different. There used to be a very conservative energy agency. You should look at the graphs, which have put the perceptions of the penetration rate of renewable energy produced by the Energy Agency year after year far beyond reality. That's part of the story, too. If the Energy Agency sends the message that emissions have been far too high, this does not detract from the importance that the Energy Agency attaches to the climate transition at the highest level and to the public. I will, of course, leave the statements of the Governor of the National Bank on his behalf, but I do not know whether it was on the same occasion that Mr Wunsch made those statements. I do remember him mentioning carbon prices as a necessary tool for policy. Furthermore, I can of course contradict the notion that the National Energy and Climate Plan would be imposed unilaterally by one or the other. On the contrary, we are in the opposite situation, where the four competent authorities make their own contributions very late in the process, at a time when very little dialogue is still possible. That was the case in the preparation of the plan, as it was submitted, and is now the case again. The process actually offers very little room for prior coordination and dialogue. So it is not imposed unilaterally at all, quite the contrary. Mr Ravyts, you referred to a discussion in another committee on the possibility of applying a temporarily reduced carbon price. I do not know whether this is about the existing ETS or the new ETS BRT. In the second case, there are, for example, in the context of the European Parliament, proposals, in addition to those of the Commission itself, which should as far as possible avoid the social shock effects, including a phased introduction of price corridors, i.e. a minimum so that the price signal remains safe in the long term, and a maximum so that the social impact can be controlled. That discussion is far less present at Council level, so it is the ministers' level. However, there is at present a very binary debate with opponents and opponents. There is a very large middle group, with Belgium, by the way, and that European debate also translates into the intrabelgic debate, which makes it difficult to position us. The middle group will have to look for a softer system if it is to be introduced than what the Commission is now proposing. Moreover, that will undoubtedly not come from Belgium, if I have understood correctly the position that will be defended tomorrow at the Council of Environment Ministers. However, there are also a number of elements that need to provide a smooth transition. For those who do not control the technical aspects, I am talking, among other things, about the frontloading of auctioning allowances and the social climate fund. The price did not crash in the existing ETS due to the war in Ukraine. Many analysts will be right that a number of Russian investment funds anticipated the economic measures taken against the Russian economy by selling a number of allowances in their portfolio at reduced prices on the market. But that wasn't the only factor. Due to the general liquidity problems caused by the economic situation, more rights were also placed on the market and there was also the general constraint on economic growth. The most recent price evolution is going up again, probably due to the fact that the companies participating in the system will have to put their allowances on the table by April, so that we get a higher demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u24	Thank you, Mr. Wittoeck. The time has come to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u25	If there are any elements that I have not answered, contact me and we will do what is necessary to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic722x.u26	I thank all those who participated in these hearings. Next appointment on Wednesday 30 March at 11:00 a.m.
