ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u1	Minister, there are more and more security cameras, many of which belong to the Hikvision brand. Hikvision is the world's largest producer of surveillance cameras and exports massive surveillance technology to the West. Few other companies can compete at the very competitive prices. Hikvision's parent company was founded by the Chinese government. The great man behind Hikvision is secretary of the Communist Party and member of the Chinese parliament. Chinese regulations provide that the government has access to all information obtained by Chinese companies. This means that the Chinese government also has access to all the images that companies acquire. In this way, she will have access to important parts of our society and infrastructure. This leads to potential security risks. Several foreign services have therefore already indicated that Hikvision should be excluded from their network for reasons of national security. My questions are as follows. Is it appropriate to exclude Hikvision cameras and other Chinese manufacturers from government buildings and crucial infrastructure? Can a legal framework be established to prevent Chinese manufacturers from participating in public procurement? How can Chinese companies be prevented from purchasing from European companies and thus from accessing the European authorities, and thus from Belgian ones? Finally, what measures can be mentioned so that local producers can produce at competitive prices? My question was originally addressed to Minister De Croo. I don't know if you can answer all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u2	I agree immediately with the last remark made by the previous speaker. My question was also addressed to Mr De Croo. I also put an oral question to Minister Verlinden on 15 December last year on the use of Chinese-made drones. My question was not only about quality, but also about reliability, safety and the dangers to information security. The risks that exist for drones are, of course, also for Chinese-made surveillance cameras. I think we should avoid the Chinese government having access to important parts of our critical infrastructures. There are real risks of data flows from Europe to China. It would be naive to think that sensitive data would not be passed on to the Chinese government, and in addition, hackers can easily access these data remotely. The Minister for the Interior has already replied that they will no longer be used for special tasks, because they are more or less aware of the potential danger. Yet the federal police have placed another order and that is a bit strange. Are you aware of the use of Chinese made security cameras in Belgium? That might be an easy question. Since when have these cameras been used? Which cabinets and government agencies use Chinese-made security cameras? Is other critical infrastructure such as military bases and nuclear reactors also equipped with these cameras? If so, which one? Can you give us an overview of the buildings that use these cameras in our country? Will the government take policies to mitigate these risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u3	Mr Secretary, my question is also about possible espionage from these security cameras. Danish intelligence has already warned against the installation of such equipment. In the United States and the United Kingdom, laws were passed to make this impossible, especially for the government. I understand that the Belgian security services are calling for careful handling of the use of such cameras and technology. Can you tell us what arguments the Belgian security services use to deal with this with caution? Would you like to ask the security services to draw up a list of foreign suppliers to be considered as high risk, since not everyone knows that? Or why isn't that necessary? Is there sufficient advice from the security services not to use such cameras, or is more needed? Should we effectively go to a ban through legislation, for example when it comes to organisations that are also covered by NIS legislation? If a list were to be drawn up of high-risk suppliers, would it be appropriate to share it with the broad population, so that everyone can get to know the list and decide whether or not to install such items at home or at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I am somewhat sorry because I think I have questioned three quarters of the government about the presence of Hikvision and Dahua cameras in Belgium. I must confess that, as a parliamentarian, in view of the diversity of responses given to me, I am concerned about the security of the State and the protection of our data, including those of our administrations. I was able to read that at least one residence of a Belgian ambassador was being watched with these cameras. Fortunately, this would not be the case with the Doel and Tihange nuclear reactors. According to Mathieu Michel, there is no directory of cameras in Belgium that take their type and place of installation. Apparently, Fedasil's centers would be watched with these cameras. In addition, Mrs Dedonder told me yesterday that some 30 cameras of these Chinese brands blacklisted in countries such as Australia, the United States or the European Parliament located a few hundred meters from where we are would be used by Belgian Defence. Minister, can you tell me at which sensitive sites we can find these Hikvision or Dahua cameras? I'm thinking about ministerial offices. I'm also thinking about military sites like Kleine-Brogel's. Can you assure us that such a site is not being monitored by these surveillance cameras, as Mrs Verlinden assured me that this was not the case for the Tihange and Doel power stations? This is my first question about the location of these cameras. On the other hand, can you make sure that these cameras are not used to leak data to Beijing? As you told me, several weeks ago, when you answered a question about Alibaba, China, the law obliges private operators to share data with the central state, if the regime in place so requests. It therefore appears that there is a real risk of espionage or data leakage. In doing so, it is important that, being in charge of State Security, you can assure us that all our public administrations and sensitive places of the State are indeed protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u5	I can answer Mr Metsu's five questions as follows. State Security is indeed aware of the use of Chinese security cameras in our country. Hikvision has experienced a major growth especially in 2014, first and foremost in the Chinese market, where cameras are used in Xinjiang. Slightly later, Hikvision also began to gain ground in Europe. However, we do not know exactly when the use of their devices started in Belgium, but in 2016 Hikvision cameras were already present in our country. I can confirm that there are no Chinese-made cameras in the building where my cabinet is confirmed, but as Minister of Justice, of course, I do not have the details of all government buildings. That is not within my powers. In that connection, I would like to refer you to the Government of the Buildings. The General Intelligence and Security Service (ADIV) warned about this in 2016. Since then, intelligence services have regularly highlighted the potential misuse of technology by third parties. State Security raises awareness among the various SPFs who are at risk of being exposed to espionage. Thus we see the hand of the Chinese Communist Party in the ownership structure of Hikvision. The 2017 Chinese National Security Act obliges all companies to provide their cooperation to the intelligence and security services. The 2016 Cyber Security Act allows the same services to exploit personal or sensitive information handled by Chinese companies. The 2015 National Security Act explicitly reiterates the obligation of Chinese companies operating abroad to cooperate with the intelligence and security services. Finally, China's 2014 law on counter-intelligence also provides that intelligence and security services have access to the electronic infrastructures and systems of Chinese companies, even abroad. The means and legal framework are therefore in place for the Chinese Communist Party to control, direct and use the manufacturers of security equipment to achieve its objectives. I come to the answer to questions No. 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, No 6 by Mr Metsu, Nos. 1 to 3 by Mr Gilissen, Question No 1 by Mr Cogolati and No 2 by Mr De At the moment, there is no evidence of data leaks to China, but that does not mean that we need to be aware of the risks that exist. We must not only make our society more aware of and more resilient to the risks, citizens, businesses and the public authorities. Therefore, through the Coordination Committee on Intelligence and Security and the Strategic Committee, we will discuss whether and how the Public Procurement Act makes it possible to take the risks into account when awarding contracts. It must be borne in mind that public procurement laws are also linked to European rules, allowing EU companies to benefit from a level playing field. In addition, the European Union has adopted a regulation on the screening of foreign direct investment. This regulation is still being transposed in our country. Security services will play an important role in this. The lead in this file is with the Minister of Economics. Measures must be proportionate. Safety must not become a cripple for protectionism. Based on what we know today, according to state security, it is too far-reaching to a priori exclude all Chinese manufacturers from all government buildings. For each purchase of cameras, the location where they will be placed, the information to which they may have access, and whether they will be connected to the Internet. There is currently no list of risk providers. The security of the State has already warned about the risks on several occasions. In addition, there is also a lot of information available on the Internet, such as the Lithuanian analysis of Hikvision and the analysis of the Xiaomi phones. Mr Gilissen, you asked a question about local producers and competitive prices. That is a question for my colleague from Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u6	Minister, you say that as Minister of Justice, you do not know what cameras are on your colleagues' cabinets. You also say that we will understand that. I absolutely don't understand that. The Security of the State is also under your important wings. I would at least dare to think that you are aware of this. After all, we ask all these questions. We'll give you important information. You may have understood that. Now you still don't know if there are Chinese-made cameras on the cabinets. Once again, you are avoiding our question about our critical infrastructure. What about the military bases, like Kleine-Brogel? Yes, you do. I'm starting to think that you just don't want to share this with us. Mr Cogolati is right when he says that we are in circles here. We're questioning every excellency about exactly what's going on here. Pandora's box is just gonna stay closed. We have a right to have honest answers. That is why I repeat my question: are there Chinese-made cameras on critical infrastructure, such as our military bases?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u7	Madam Minister, in view of the geopolitical situation, it is high time to arm ourselves against the dubious practices of foreign powers, such as China and the companies that are under the influence of those powers. All-present Chinese equipment poses a threat not to be underestimated, especially when it comes to equipment that could be studied and perhaps even manipulated by our society. You cannot answer the question about the purchase price, the economic impact and the measures we can take to stimulate local production. You rightly refer to the Minister of Economy. However, there is an urgent need for a legal framework allowing public authorities to exclude products from procurement and public procurement from certain manufacturers. I look forward to initiatives in this area. You just quoted them. I look forward to the initiatives you can take in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u8	Minister, I fully agree with my colleague, Koen Metsu. You state that you are not competent for the cameras in government buildings of other departments. I heard the same story yesterday from the Prime Minister when I questioned him about the cyber security of all public services, after we saw that Defense had been hacked. He replied that each cabinet has its own responsibility in cyber security matters. That shows once again that things don't work that way. There must be coordination from one central point. It is then up to the Security of the State, for which you are competent in your capacity as Minister, to request a report and to carry out a thorough analysis. I expect you to. I will retable my question in a month's time. I don't have any orders to give you, but I hope you'll just do that for our national security. I hope that, when I ask you again in a month's time, you will be able to indicate that you have given the order, which is your job as Minister for State Security, to organise a thorough screening. You can then tell us, the representatives of the people, and the whole country that we do not have to worry or indicate that a number of problems have been found and the cameras will be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think two aspects are important. The first, rather general, is of an ethical nature. On the one hand, I believe that one cannot denounce a crime of genocide against the Uighur minority in China and on the other hand, one cannot continue to buy, with public means, in public procurements, business equipment that is directly related to ethnic profiling, racial segregation, these objects of facial recognition of the same Uighur minority. It's a matter of duty of vigilance. It is important for the State to apply it to itself. The second aspect is the following. I think I heard you were going to discuss a strategy to be defined with the SGRS colleagues. In my view, it is indeed important to be able to define very clear beacons to protect both the private data of our fellow citizens and, at the same time, the sensitive sites of the state, such as military sites such as Kleine-Brogel. In this regard, I did not really hear any details about the presence or absence of surveillance cameras. The main message is that we must refuse a big brother, whether Chinese, Russian or otherwise – that's not the point. What is important is to protect our data, the privacy of our citizens and our public administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u10	Question No 55024152C by Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u11	Madam Chair, Minister, your predecessor's bill to create transitional homes made it clear in the explanatory memorandum that it was a matter of allowing some convicted persons to end their custodial sentence in a less secure infrastructure to facilitate reintegration. According to the Law on External Legal Status (SJE), this is a form of execution of the sentence, which is granted by the prison administration. The person detained in a transitional house continues to depend on a "managerial" prison, which remains responsible for the execution of the sentence of these persons. During their placement, the SJE Act continues to apply to these convicted persons. Placement decisions may be revoked, resulting in the transfer of the detainee to the prison manager. The initial blurring of the status of these institutions had been dispelled by your predecessor in response to a parliamentary question. It had confirmed the competence of the Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP) to control these places of detention, namely the transitional houses. Representatives of the CPSC attended a hearing on 18 January in the Justice Committee. According to them, you would have indicated, on the eve of the release of a report on transitional houses, that the Council would not, in your view, be competent to exercise its control over these transitional houses. This is a reversal of your predecessor's attitude, Mr. Geens. Minister, can you confirm this information? If that is the case, can you tell us by what reasoning you come to this conclusion? I actually see two possibilities. Either transitional homes are prisons in which convicted persons who are still prisoners are placed, who are there on the basis of a decision of the prison administration and who are granted leave to leave, prison leave, etc. In which case, I see no reason to exclude these institutions from the jurisdiction of the CPSC. Either transitional homes are not prisons. In such a case, those who are on parole should be on parole and found there on the basis of a decision of the sentencing court. I would be happy to have your clarification on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u12	Madam President, dear colleague, in the explanatory memorandum to the bill which led to the inclusion of transitional homes in the Act of 17 May 2006, it is stated: "However, this placement should be regarded as a method of detention, of execution of the prison sentence, rather than a classification decision. The logical consequence is that this procedure is reflected in the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty and the rights of the victim in the execution of the sentence, and no longer in the Prison Administration Act of 2005 and the legal status of detainees." This sentence is even quoted in the CPSC report. The same report also cites the report of the Council of State of 26 January 2018. In this report, the Council of State notes that "the placement in transitional prisons decided by the Minister who has the justice in his powers, or his delegate, constitutes an alternative to the placement in prison, as well as other forms of execution of the sentence, such as electronic supervision and limited detention decided by the court on the enforcement of sentences". This position, which led to the presence of transitional houses in a new chapter of Title IV of the Act of 17 May 2006, has implications for the application of the supervision exercised by the CPSC under the Act of 2005. I have, of course, read that one of the recommendations of the CPSC's final report is to include these transitional houses in the 2005 Act and not in the 2006 Act, but it would then distort the meaning of this measure, which is primarily a method of carrying out the sentence other than the prison sentence. This does not mean that these transitional houses are areas where no control is present. As my predecessor pointed out, both the Committee for the Prevention of Torture and the Federal Ombudsman are competent for these places. This does not imply that the CPSC cannot visit the transitional houses, and that has been done without concern and transparency. On the other hand, two points need to be stressed. First of all, this is being done in the expectation of an OPCAT mechanism, which you know we all want to achieve in concrete terms. Secondly, this control is to a lesser extent than in prison and under the 2005 Act, with the fact, in particular, that it does not appear legally legitimate to set up supervisory commissions there. I will conclude my speech by linking up with Mrs Rohonyi's question about the detention centres that will be asked to me earlier. Detention homes are a very recent project. Attention should be paid to their installation, which implies monitoring and evaluation. But it is also necessary not to freeze the procedures for the execution of the sentence in too strict a carcan because it will only be with a greater setback and an accumulation of projects that we will be able to take full measure of their impact. It was in this spirit that I issued a call for projects to extend their capacity to 100 places in the form of a three-year grant. Once these new projects have been installed and evaluated, we will have the necessary setback to see how this method of execution can be effectively pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand your legal considerations. I also understand that you do not consider that transitional houses should be exempted from any control, but that the CPSC would not be the best body to carry out their control. This is an important clarification. It is important to recall that these persons have been convicted and remain prisoners. Of course, they are certainly freer from their movements than those held in prisons or detention centres. However, they are largely deprived of their liberty on the basis of a decision of the prison administration, which justifies the monitoring of these places. I understand that, in your view, the national preventive mechanism from OPCAT seems to be the best way to carry out this mission. Why not? We know that discussions are taking place, that several bodies are candidates to fulfil this role and that you have the will to finally set up this important mechanism. By the way, I would like to point out that this reinforces the position that only one OPCAT body should be responsible for monitoring all places of deprivation of liberty in order to avoid having to "cut" these places into different sets of bodies. But for the time being, this OPCAT mechanism does not yet exist, despite the political will that exists today. Monitoring should therefore be explicitly ensured until it is put in place. In order to avoid any risk of a lack of control, I wonder whether it would not be useful to clarify the role that the CPSC can play today, pending the implementation of the above-mentioned mechanism. I have noted that you do not wish to include transitional homes in the 2005 Act. I understand your arguments. But I encourage you to formally entrust the control of the transitional houses to the CPSC, which does not require a switch to the 2005 law, pending the establishment of the OPCAT mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u14	Madam President, Minister, this question lives on several local authorities and police areas working on it on a daily basis. You know that by means of a specific decree Flanders has allowed the municipalities to sanction certain speeding offences via GAS. For example, own income can be entered in a budget. In recent weeks there has been some commotion about cooperation with private companies, in particular about the fact that this would become more of a financing story and that road safety would get in the background by imposing conditions such as the removal of certain traffic inhibitors and the like. The Flemish Government has announced an evaluation. As there are several other problems with GAS 5, reference is always made to foreign offenders and legal entities. Since these appliances, in addition to GAS 5, also detect other serious infringements which are not covered by the application of GAS 5, I would have liked to hear your opinion on this. I also heard from various sources that an alternative to GAS 5 would have been developed. This is important information for all actors in the field. Mr Minister, can you confirm that these installations will also identify more serious infringements, which do not meet the criteria of GAS 5? Were any of these arrangements made with the D.A.'s office? Were protocol agreements concluded with them on this matter? Do you think it is normal for speed limitation systems to be removed in order to generate maximum profitability? Is it true that the approach to recidivism and the driving licence with points are compromised by the GAS 5 decree? Surely that is important information that we need. Is it true that an alternative was developed? If so, can you provide more information?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Gabriels, according to the information given to me by the police, it is intended that speeding offences punishable by administrative penalties pursuant to Article 29 (c) of the Road Traffic Act should be detected by the police using cameras connected to the police's computer system. It is therefore inevitable that these devices will detect both depenalised offences and heavier offences that can be prosecuted in criminal proceedings. For this reason, when new devices such as fixed speed cameras are installed in the territory of municipalities that have opted for the system of administrative fines, the placement and conditions of use of these devices should be determined during consultation, organised by the competent judicial, police and administrative authorities, in accordance with Article 62 (7) of the Road Traffic Act. The procedures for the implementation of these consultations are laid down in the Royal Decree of 11 October 1997. The decision provides, inter alia, that agreements on the placement and conditions of use of fixed equipment or equipment are to be laid down in a protocol. The GAS 5 system entered into force on 1 February 2021, almost a year ago. Since then, some municipalities have had informal contacts with the Public Prosecutor on the new legislation. It seems that some of them, although they have not yet taken the necessary steps to opt for the system after the entry into force of the Decree introducing the new Article 29quater, have shown interest in the administrative fines. So far, only a few municipalities have indicated to the public that they wish to opt for the GAS 5 system and that they are prepared to start a consultation procedure with the public prosecutor soon. The prosecutors report problems with the identification of legal persons and the follow-up of foreign offenders. However, caution should be exercised, as some municipalities may have failed to inform the public prosecutor of the installation of new fixed automatic flashlights. In reply to your second question, you can understand that, in my capacity as Minister of Road Safety, I certainly do not like the removal of speed limitation measures to generate additional revenue. To your third question I can answer that it is indeed not possible to apply an infringement of Article 67b within the Gas 5 system. This will ensure that a whole range of legal persons will not identify the true driver and that a significant number of drivers will therefore escape the approach of repeated driving licences and points in the future. The identification of legal persons is crucial to the fight against recidivism and the driving licence with points. For 2021, the infringements of legal persons accounted for one third of all potential GAS 5 infringements in Flanders, i.e. 500,000 out of 1.56 million GAS 5 infringements in 2021 in Flanders. This will ensure a fragmented road safety policy. The system will be far from conclusive, which will simply tolerate impunity for some infringements. In reply to your fourth question, I can tell you that it is true that justice is not a strong advocate of a uniform approach through the criminal justice chain. The investments made in recent years by the police and the Justice Department to improve the chances of being caught and executed are significant. I am referring to the strengthening of processing centres, the creation of the new road safety parquet, the strengthening of local parquets and the various courts and courts. It is therefore true that, in consultation with cities and municipalities and with the regional partner, we have drawn up an alternative proposal which guarantees the criminal and uniform approach, but which no longer merely transfers revenue to the regions, but also to the local authorities and even to the police as a processor. The federal government has developed an accounting tool that makes it possible to simulate certain keys and take a political decision on that basis. However, that decision lies not with me, but with my colleagues from the Flemish Government. In addition to responding to the demand for further funding of local authorities as compensation for investment, the alternative to me is crucial because of road safety and the many benefits for the criminal justice system, to combat fragmentation and impunity and to actually deliver on the vision of zero road deaths by 2050. In this way, the efficiency gains obtained by Crossborder will also be maintained and all Justice products can be applied. For example, within GAS 5, in addition to being prosecuted under Article 67b, it is also impossible to issue an order for payment or a foreign certificate. However, these products play a crucial role in the design of the criminal justice chain. GAS 5 will bring gaps back into this and the impunity will increase again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u16	Minister, you have given a very interesting answer to many actors in the field. As you said, in the beginning many municipalities reacted enthusiastically to GAS 5, but they were still a little afraid of the many practical problems you mentioned. Road safety must be an absolute priority for everyone. We need to increase the chance of getting caught together. I am very curious about the further roll-out of the alternative system. I think it is best to continue discussions at Flemish level to encourage municipalities to use the alternative system as soon as possible, because uniform procedures remain important in my view.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u17	Minister, not so long ago, in December 2021, I think, you were still very proud. You showed off the signed extradition treaty with the United Arab Emirates. In the course of 2020, the Antwerp State Security Office sent three extradition requests to the United Arab Emirates. The person concerned, Nordin El Hajjioui, was arrested in June 2021. But thanks to the payment of a bail, he was released very quickly. He has then initiated proceedings against his extradition and has also been proved right by the court. In other words, the extradition requests are now being rejected. There is a big difference between communication on the one hand and reality on the other. Hence my questions. Your cabinet has been informed of this decision through the ambassador. The court has already stated that it will examine the judgments. Can you explain to me on what basis the court in Dubai refused the extradition request? Has the Treaty been taken into account at that time, or has it not been taken into account because it had not yet been signed at the time of the request? Do you expect a smoother procedure when a new extradition request is sent out? In any case, will a new request be made to the United Arab Emirates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u18	Minister, a month ago you indeed announced with great pride that you, together with federal prosecutor Van Leeuw, had signed an extradition treaty with the United Arab Emirates, which was mainly aimed at giving Antwerp drug millionaires no longer free play and allowing them to escape persecution in our country. Some newspapers even said that the party was over for them, that they were no longer safe from the Belgian courts and so on. At the committee meeting of 23 December 2021, I questioned you about this and said that I hoped that you would not be too quick to win victory, on the basis of criticism from specialised journalists immediately after the publication of the signed extradition treaty. Last week, we were informed that Dubai is refusing to extradite Nordin El Hajjioui, one of the top targets of justice, who is being prosecuted for international drug smuggling and directing a criminal organisation that committed attacks in the drugs environment, to our country, and that three previous extradition requests have already been rejected. Can you give us a more detailed explanation? Did one or more of the three extradition requests already fall within the scope of the extradition treaty concluded in December? If so, what is the reason for the refusal? If not, a very important question, will a new extradition request be made soon? Are there any other files in which an extradition request was recently refused by the United Arab Emirates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that the requests were made before the signing of the extradition treaty, which was concluded in December. We have taken note of the High Court of Dubai's decision rejecting the defendant's extradition requests. Our ambassador immediately contacted the judge who is our point of contact since we concluded the treaties to ask for explanations. He made it clear to us that the requests were not unfounded but that there were procedural reasons for refusing extradition. That explanation was not sufficient for us at all. As soon as the judgment is available and translated, we can legally dissect its finesses, but I can already give you the following. The extradition application was based on three files. In the meantime, one of those files has been subpoenaed before the proper court. A second file is pending before the Court of Cassation, against a judgment of the Chamber of Appeal in which the rules of procedure were applied. In the third file, at the end of December, the Council Chamber declared its disarray. In concrete terms, this means that extradition could take place on the basis of two of the three dossiers. The legal basis for this is still the same as at the time of the extradition request, namely the detention order in absentia by the investigating judge. We asked the question why, when faced with the defence's arguments, the Emirates did not inform the Belgian colleagues. In our contacts with our contact point after this decision, we have clearly indicated that we are not satisfied with this. We are not satisfied with this decision, nor with the fact that we were not consulted beforehand, in the light of the discussions we had following the signing of the two treaties with the Emirates. We have therefore indicated that we will launch new requests. We are not letting this go, because justice and police have been and have been for years asking for better cooperation with the United Arab Emirates, in particular for an extradition and legal aid treaty. The fact that we were able to conclude these treaties is an important step in cooperation with the authorities there. The fact that these treaties are much needed is sufficiently demonstrated by the fact that the federal parish, the Antwerp parish and the FGP have come to me regularly from the outset to exert political pressure on the authorities there to engage with us in this cooperation. That's what I did with the signature. It is also clear from this decision that these treaties were desperately needed. On your second question, the defendant's case was long pending at the High Court of Dubai at the time the treaties were concluded. Consequently, the newly concluded treaties were not taken into account in the examination of this case. As far as your third question is concerned, I repeat that we will shortly address new requests to them. These requests will be accompanied by new operational contacts between our federal prosecutor and the authorities in the United Arab Emirates. Mrs Dillen, there have recently been no other refusals of extradition by the United Arab Emirates.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I find something in your answer very indicative. You are negotiating extradition treaties with the authorities, but at the same time the authorities apparently did not think it necessary to inform you that there was a problem in another file that was pending. That says a lot about the partner with whom you are making an agreement. I do not find that reassuring, Minister. It should be clear that a new request will be made. However, the question arises as to whether those concerned will still be present in the United Arab Emirates by then. After all, many have already looked for other places. It's still an eternal battle. We'll follow up on this, but I don't think it's very reassuring. In this way it can be seen that reality sometimes deviates from the image that is created. It does not reassure me, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u21	Minister, I agree with Mr De Wit's reply. I have a little informational question. You refer to the full translation of the judgment of the High Court of Dubai in order to take further steps. When do you expect that translation? Will you then make a new request as soon as possible? I share Mr De Wit's fears that there is a good chance that the bird will fly to other places where he thinks he is safe. Your cautious response also shows, unless I am mistaken, that you are somewhat disappointed by the attitude of the authorities of the United Arab Emirates, particularly Dubai. In any case, I hope that the Treaty will enter into force quickly and that it will not be long. The longer we wait, the greater the chance that fewer and fewer people who might be eligible for extradition will actually be staying there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u22	Mr President, in the 1950's or 1960's, the Eastern Bloc has endeavoured to get the concept of hatred into the Russian Treaty as a restrainable thing, namely hate speech. The free West has long resisted this and tried to counter it. At some point, however, the free West has come into a minority position and the concept has slipped into international texts. It should be noted, however, that the obligations involved can be interpreted in a far-reaching or rather cautious way. Our country may have gone quite far in this respect. We're on a slippery slope right now, as it turns out. The European Commission launched an initiative to treat hate speech and hate crime as a cross-border crime. Each Member State should now apply minimum rules. I quote from a Commission communication: 'Hate has no place in the EU and must be combated by all means available, including through criminal law'. This is not about hate speech, or inciting hatred, but it is about hatred in itself. It's kind of weird. President Ursula von der Leyen says: 'Hate is hate and no one has to tolerate it'. I still agree with this, but whether criminal law should be linked to it is another matter. Minister, do you support the European Commission's initiative and the language used in it? What legislative path does the European proposal have to take before it comes to us? Do you find the proposal in line with the Belgian Constitution which provides for freedom of expression and rejects censorship? Do you think that it is necessary to amend a constitutional article in order to meet, if necessary, the expectations of Europe? How do you reconcile the European proposal with the European Convention on Human Rights and the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 9 December 1976 to which I refer in my question? What scope does the European proposal leave to national parliaments? Finally, in what way do you think that the European proposal would like to ban the concept of hatred, which is not a crime against us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u23	On 9 December 2021, the Commission issued a Communication on the inclusion of hate crimes and hate speech in the list of EU offences. In this Communication, the Commission sets out how it intends to proceed in two stages. A first stage concerns the proposal to extend the list of EU crimes involving hate speech and hate crime on the basis of Article 83, § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Depending on developments in crime, the Council may, acting unanimously and after approval by the European Parliament, identify the types of serious and cross-border crime that require common EU action. This proposal is currently being discussed at European level. A second phase can then be launched. This requires the completion of the first phase and the adoption of the proposal to include hate crimes and hate speech on the EU list of EU crimes. It is only after this adoption that a new legislative proposal can be proposed in a second stage, allowing binding minimum standards on definitions and penalties to be adopted through the ordinary legislative procedure. It is only in this possible second stage that national parliaments will play a role. The communication refers to directives. In other words, they must be transposed into national law by the legislator. However, the second proposal is not yet available. So I can't give you any further information on that. At present, therefore, it is only the question of whether hate crimes and hate speech can be regarded as forms of particularly serious crime with a cross-border dimension resulting from the nature or consequences of these offences or from the particular need to combat them on a common basis. In this first phase, therefore, definitions and criminalisation are not used. I am indeed in favour of including the specific forms of hate crimes and hate speech, which constitute serious crime and are of a cross-border nature, on the list of European crimes. Hate crimes and hate speech are also crimes in Belgian law. If these are particularly serious and take place on a European scale, it is obvious that I want to be able to deal with them at European level as Minister of Justice. I am thinking, for example, of a fundamentalist hate preacher who, through an online message spread across several European countries, calls for all Jews, women and gays to be attacked, killed and destroyed. This could lead to attacks and destruction in several countries. In such cases, it is an obvious added value that action can also be taken at European level and that Belgian victims of such crimes also enjoy a minimum level of protection of rights throughout the Union. As far as your third and fourth questions are concerned, the present proposal concerns only the qualification of particularly serious crimes. There seems to be no impact on the Constitution at this stage. As far as the ECHR is concerned, I would like to point out that Article 6 of the Treaty of the European Union expressly states that fundamental rights under the ECHR are part of Union law as general principles. I would also like to point out that the European Court of Human Rights has also ruled that freedom of expression is not unlimited and that certain forms of hate speech may indeed be punishable by the Member States. I refer to the judgment of the Court of 24 June 2003. I also refer to the decision of 13 November 2003, the decision of 16 November 2004, the judgment of 10 July 2008 and the decision of 9 February 2012. I quote: "Recognising that tolerance and the equality of all human beings constituted the foundations of a democratic, pluralistic society, the European Court of Human Rights considered that it may be necessary in democratic societies to sanction or even prevent all forms of expression which spread, incite, promote or justify hated based on intolerance. The European Court further pointed out that criminal sanctions against individuals responsible for the most serious expressions of hatred, inciting others to violet, could also be addressed as a last resort measure. For these reasons, the European Court consistently recognised in case-law that the right to freedom of expression does not prevent criminal law responses to certain forms of hate speech." As far as your final question is concerned, this draft concerns the qualification of certain forms of hate crimes and hate speech as EU crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u24	Minister, your answer was extensive, but not reassuring, quite the contrary. I was somewhat reassured when you became Minister of Justice when this government came into being with a somewhat left-wing influence. I thought that a man like you, with liberal principles, would not push us further in that direction towards what the Soviet Union wanted to impose on us the free West at the time. The greater I am surprised and disappointed that you have placed yourself here, forgive me, on the wrong side of history, namely on the other side of the Iron Curtain. In the examples you give, there is violence. When it comes to the violent treatment of non-believers, homosexuals or women, it goes without saying that criminal law must be invoked in this case. However, as a liberal, you go along the slippery path of restricting freedom of expression and amaze me, particularly because you have weapons, because you have spoken unanimously. You will be the person who will decide whether this country will be on the side of the former free West, or whether you will continue to develop the legacy of the Soviet Union. I therefore hope that you will have better insights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u25	Madam President, I know that the last word is always for Parliament, but what Mr De Roover says is very caricature. I am on the side of the European Union. Mr De Roover seems to be on the side that is opposed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u26	I refer to the debate in which the spread of hatred is regarded as a criminal offence. You also know that this is not an objective qualification. I am saying here, for example, that I hate Marc Dutroux, and I hope that it will never be criminalized for expressing that. In the Soviet Union, this was done to silence dissident voices. I hope, therefore, that you will know which side you are on if that debate develops further in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u27	I would like to make it clear that hatred is not punishable anywhere, but inciting hatred. This is not just the case in Belgium, but in all European countries and in the European Convention on Human Rights. It is always about inciting hatred, violence and discrimination. Mr De Roover, the application of the Jewish star, for example, is inciting hatred. That does not necessarily involve violence. Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u28	You oblige me to quote again what Mrs von der Leyen says: 'Hate is hate, and no one has to tolerate it'. I also quote the European Commission: 'Hate has no place in the EU and must be combated by all means available, including through criminal law'. I repeat and will repeat that the distinction in qualification between what is hate and what is simply an opposite opinion is the slope in which you seem unable to tie your liberal breaks to the guarantee that people are effectively free to formulate alternative opinions. I repeat, please be on the right side, Mr Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u29	Minister, like many Belgians, I was extremely shocked by the deplorable events of 23 January. The images are uplifting: buildings and vehicles destroyed, police attacks by demonstrators, etc. It is deeply striking to learn that journalists have also been attacked and that police officers, who have been the victims of projectiles, including Nadar barriers, have had to take refuge in a metro station. This Sunday, 23 January, it was scenes of chaos that took place in Brussels. While freedom of expression is a recognized right, we obviously cannot accept violence, especially against men and women who are members of the police. Minister, Circular No. 10/2017 of the College of Attorneys General (revised on 24 November 2020) provides for the automatic opening of a case in case of violence against a member of the police service, with the systematic preparation of a report. Can you tell us if this procedure has been followed in this case? How do you intend to ensure, together with your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, that all violence will be continued? What repressive policy do you envisage against violence against journalists?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u30	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mrs Matz, there were 228 administrative arrests. There were 11 arrests, of which 8 were of age and 3 were minors. These persons were arrested on suspicion of facts of forbidden arms conduct, armed rebellion and/or beatings and injuries to the police. 8 persons, 7 adults and 1 minor, were released after questioning because a further deprivation of liberty was not necessary for the proper conduct of the investigation, nor was a preliminaries of these persons before the investigating judge for arrest. More detailed investigation into the involvement of these suspects is still ongoing. If the facts on which these persons are suspected can be proved, an appropriate criminal action will be taken. In one file, the arrest has given rise to a subpoena in fast law for forbidden arms and armed rebellion. This case occurs at the hearing of the Dutch-speaking correctional court on 17 February. The two arrested minors were made available to the court, which subsequently applied to the juvenile court. The investigation will continue, both with regard to the suspects released after questioning and with regard to the identification of other offenders, in particular through the analysis of video surveillance images. Five suspects came from abroad, namely France and the Netherlands. A suspect had Afghan nationality. The investigation is conducted with the police by a team that has experience with evidence collection in these files. For major events, the presence of a reference magistraat in the police command post is foreseen. At the same time as maintaining public order, orders can be given immediately at judicial level. Due to the presence of the magistrate, the follow-up of judicial files has also been ensured in demonstrations and there is a proper alignment with the directives of the administrative authorities. The identification of suspects and offenders of violence and vandalism is done via CCTV, but also through specific evidence and arrest teams. These teams are present at major events and are commissioned to collect as much evidence as possible in criminal offences, including by means of images. At the parquet, these files are centralised at a magistrate of the competent department. Three minors were involved in the riots. Two minors were made available to the public. The juvenile court was sued for the two minors for armed rebellion in the gang with prior agreement. Mrs Matz, with regard to your first question, a report has indeed already been drawn up for each suspect identified on the day of the riots. Further investigations are being conducted by the local police to identify more authors, for example through camera images. With regard to your second question, as has been the case with previous incidents, the prosecution policy of the prosecutor provides for a systematic response to such facts. Regarding the riots of 21 November, I can tell you that in the meantime 53 people have been identified as having participated in this violence. Of these, 31 were formally identified and the local police began a judicial investigation for 15 of them. Of these files, 6 have already been subpoenaed, of which 5 are in expedited proceedings and a subpoena will be issued for 3 cases. This approach is the right one and we have asked that this method of work be applied to Sunday riots as well. I have already indicated how the Task Force operated during the riots, but of course the work does not stop there. After the events, the Task Force of the local police and the federal police scrutinizes several gigabytes of images to identify suspects and gather evidence. It's not obvious. The rioters are disguised and make every effort to remain as anonymous as possible. Individual responsibility must also be proven. Building solid files is time-consuming work. The analysis of the images is followed by interrogations and any investigative duties resulting therefrom. But we're still working hard on it. Earlier in the day, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office held a press conference with the Chief of Corps of the Brussels-Capital Police Area. They explained the approach and results of the surveys conducted to date. Both the police and the prosecutor's office stressed that combating such violence was a top priority for them. The chief of corps of the Brussels police area also – it's important – stressed that the tightening of the circular on violence against the police at the end of 2020 had a clear effect – he said – on the ground. On your third question, violence against journalists is also a priority for the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I've been given answers to my questions. These are very regrettable facts in which a demonstration, whether you agree with the demonstrators or not, is hijacked by rioters. Of course respect for the police, who have to do their job in very difficult circumstances. There's been a lot of administrative arrests, 228. This contrasts sharply with the 11 arrests. I suspect that the difficult identification is part of this, but I certainly hope that more of the perpetrators will be identified and that they can be punished quickly and decisively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for all this guidance and proactivity in these matters that we have dear to us. Police violence against individuals is often criticized, while violence against the police is sometimes a little less criticized. Action is therefore necessary on both grounds and I note that you have acted on this point in an unacceptable case of violence against the police. Indeed, while the right to freedom of expression is indeed a fundamental right, it does not imply ransacking and violence against people, whether they are police officers or journalists. The identification work, which is not simple, must continue. Therefore, we will follow this file closely and thank you for your action on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u33	Mr Minister, previous speakers spoke about the demonstration last weekend. I am trying to open up my question a little bit more and would like to refer to the interesting annual report 2020 of State Security. It contains an important section, namely violent left-wing extremism. The security of the State points out that this phenomenon is gaining ground in this country, specifically in Brussels. There is even talk of a strong concentration in Brussels. Tacktics described in the report refer specifically to the Black Bloc. There is also support for certain protest marches. Through the infiltration into legitimate demonstrations, they often discredit its organisers and participants by using force. Another phenomenon that is described is that the health crisis in our country is being seized by violent left extremistism to feed their message more. Unfortunately, all the phenomena described in the State Security Report have been identified last weekend. The OCAD also warned against the corona rules at the beginning of December. Does the Minister confirm that violent left-wing extremists are getting grounded? I assume so, as it is described in the annual report. Is there a concentration in Brussels? What are the clues to this? Is it possible to establish a link with political parties? Was there a Black Bloc at last Sunday's demonstration? Did left extremists infiltrate that demonstration and use force? Are the left extremists discrediting these legitimate demonstrations? What criminal treatment will the rioters get? What instructions led to the OCAD's warning? What measures will you take with the government to counter the rise of left-wing extremism?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u34	Mr Buysrogge, violent left-wing extremism is indeed present in Belgium and is mainly concentrated in Brussels. This is not a new phenomenon; these extremist movements which approve the use of force generally have no link with political parties represented in Belgium. Some even reject any form of politics or political parties. The presence of representatives of violent left extremistism in our country is not new, but a phenomenon that has existed for years. The phenomenon remains relatively limited in size and is not of the same order of magnitude as other phenomena. This is also reflected in the figures of priority follow-up individuals in the Common Database (GGB). There is indeed a certain, but not complete, concentration in Brussels. The security services had no prior information on organized Black Bloc infiltration of extreme links during the 23 January event. The detailed analysis of the arrested rioters is still ongoing. Although the methods used are similar to those of Black Blocs, I would like to make the necessary reservations. Our services are also in contact with their European counterparts for these identifications. The analysis is ongoing. The use of all forms of violence in demonstrations, whatever their background, brings legitimate arguments into disrepute. I can't comment on ongoing investigations. It goes without saying that the judge will judge on the basis of the specific situation and the seriousness of the facts. For facts of violence against police, severe prison sentences can be pronounced. As you know, the law on this matter was still intertwined during the previous legislature. One of the findings of the past year, according to the OCAD, is that there is indeed a contradiction that balances on the edge of the legal framework and sometimes also deals with it. Moreover, this polarisation is expressed throughout society and certainly not only in the two extremes. The whole population is being stirred up, and some people don't keep their heads down. This is often visible, not yet exclusive, at times when the health crisis has re-emerged, such as the last few weeks and months. Without exaggerating this aspect, and certainly without projecting it on the whole movement, it is clear that some people can talk about inciting hatred or violence, and that there is a certain potential for violence. This is derived from a number of concrete elements. Policy makers and scientific actors are regularly threatened by the freedom-limiting measures put forward in the context of the corona crisis. Such threats occur mainly on online forums and are often expressed by individuals who are part of online groups. This rarely concerns those responsible for this counter-movement itself, but it concerns some of the participants in these virtual groups. However, it is striking that those responsible for these forums seem to be doing little to achieve a thorough moderation and removal of such messages, which often remain visible and exposed. It is difficult to determine whether this is due to a lack of capacity or whether in some cases it is a deliberate tactic. The threats that are expressed online are often not direct and/or latent, but in some cases there are direct threats, usually a threat packaged as barely concealed warning, whether or not addressed to those concerned. In addition to threats, also in times of increasing tension, there is a stable stream of hateful messages about politicians and scientists visible on such online forums. Traditional media are also often head of jut, as they are often considered part of the establishment. Similar hate speech, sometimes to threats, is also regularly expressed in online comment sessions of mainstream Belgian media. It is a fact that a lot of hate speech, as well as a threat of violence, contributes to a heated and polarized climate, making hate speech towards policy-makers, media and virologists more and more normal. Left-wing extremist and violent groups and individuals are treated by the various intelligence and security services at national and local level within the framework of our TER strategy, which stands for terrorism, extremism and radicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. In any case, you gave a long and comprehensive answer as far as possible. I agree with you that any form of violence and any form of extremism must be condemned. For the sake of clarity, we, too, condemn this. I specifically asked you a question about left extremism because that phenomenon was clearly detected. In particular, the way in which Left Extremism works has already been detected in the State Security Annual Report and in the OCAD's warning at the end of last year. Exactly the same techniques, as described in that annual report, were used in that demonstration. I am frowning on the eyebrows when you answer that they were not aware that this was going to happen. That is why I am warning you of a further demonstration. You must take great account of the fact that similar techniques will be used. I hope you won't say you're not aware. It is a growing phenomenon that has a specific agenda in mind and uses a specific technique. Continue with the different disciplines to prevent growth. They have gained ground in Belgium, with a strong concentration in Brussels. Let's make sure we can get that curve down by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u36	Madam President, Minister, like my colleague, Mrs Claire Hugon, who asked you earlier, I would like to ask you about the CPSC's report on transitional houses. You chose to separate our questions. In view of the answers you have already given, I understand why. In particular, the report notes that certain unspecified and random criteria, such as good knowledge of the language, would be applied in order to benefit from placement in a transitional home. Management would also play an important role in these institutions, since it would select those prisoners who are most likely to succeed in their reintegration, thereby excluding the most vulnerable or the least educated. The Central Prison Supervision Board also pointed to the privatization of transitional houses, which resulted in a lack of accountability to Parliament and a lack of transparency at the public level, in particular with regard to the award of the contract, financial management and the decision to end exploitation. However, the unilateral decision taken last October by the private company G4S to put an end to its operation of the transitional house in Enghien, which I had already asked you about, has serious consequences today, namely the closure, on 1 January, of this transitional house and therefore the return to prison of fifteen prisoners, if my information is good – in any case, it corresponds to the maximum capacity of this transitional house – for an indefinite period. This closure is particularly incomprehensible when we know that the commune was ready to support the companies, the owners of the premises but also G4S, even if only to ensure the right transition between the company and the ASBL chosen to resume the operation. Minister, what are the CPSC's recommendations you are considering following? Why? How long? How do you justify the choices made by the Transitional Home Directorates to select the least vulnerable prisoners? Are you considering, as proposed by the CPSC, integrating the operation of transitional houses into the modalities organized by the 2005 Law of Principles so that investment decisions can be made in a more egalitarian manner? What is your assessment of the two pilot projects? Do the advantages of privatization really offset, in your opinion, the lack of accountability in Parliament, but also the lack of transparency in public procurement? What justified the closure on 1 January of the Enghien transitional house, despite the designation of the ASBL Ceraic? Is the government committed to providing financial support for this resumption of operations? By what means? Are you planning on making a ministerial order? Will an order be made by the Minister of Finance or will it be a royal order? How long? Don't you have the opportunity to prevent this closure? What guarantees can you give us today that this closure will only be temporary? When will the house be able to reopen? Pending this reopening, what prison are the 15 detainees in question in? What will become of their reintegration projects? Will they be interrupted or will they be granted leave to continue to be followed? How will you ensure that this uncertainty does not cause staff in the transition home to flee? Are you committed to taking all possible precautions to prevent any candidate from appearing in the future to resume a transitional house project? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u37	Madam President, dear colleague, it is first and foremost important to draw attention to the fact that detention centres are very different from transitional houses. They have only one thing in common: to set up small-scale detentions. A detention home is mostly de facto a prison and, in this sense, it is also subject to all the laws and regulations applicable to a conventional prison, whereas a transitional home is a place where a sentence is executed within the meaning of the Law on External Legal Status. It is therefore not a prison and its staff does not have the status of prison staff. The report prepared by the CPSC was received on 21 December with a request for a response within 15 years. My remarks were transmitted this 17 January. The final version of this report was received last Friday and contains 18 recommendations. Sterkhuis's reactions to the remarks made must first be analysed by my administration. In addition, regular contacts between the CPSC and DG PPE take place. The next meeting is scheduled for 3 February. In view of this very tight timing, you will understand that no concrete response has yet been undertaken. I will not fail to keep you informed of the follow-up. The selection of prisoners is carried out primarily by the directors of the psycho-social services of prisons and is carried out mainly on the basis of the criteria set out in a collective letter. These criteria emphasize the need and ability to stay in an open community regime but do not mention vulnerability. An analysis of the files is also carried out by the Directorate of Detention Management. Only proselyte profiles with risk of escape or increased risk of conflicting behaviour with other residents are categorically excluded. As I mentioned, the nature of transitional homes and the fact that they are a form of execution of the sentence means that they are included in the External Status Act. There is no need to change that. I stress that we are still in a phase of analysis of these projects, the extension of which will allow us to analyse ways of doing things other than that experienced in June and in Malines. The call for projects was made transparently via the Belgian Monitor. The selected projects will receive a grant via a file submitted very shortly to the finance inspector attached to my department. The first evaluations are very positive. This is why the government has decided to increase the number of places available in transitional homes to 100. This extension will also allow for the analysis of other ways to understand this method of execution of the sentence and thus to refine the results. Sterkhuis did not submit any projects to Enghien as part of the calls published this summer. It's their choice. However, another project was submitted with the intention of using these places but via another partner. The analysis of the file will normally be finalized shortly. As I have just pointed out, these are subsidies and not a public procurement. Several projects were received in addition to the one I just mentioned for Enghien. Since the analysis is not yet closed by the administration, it is premature to say who was chosen, especially since the files must then be analysed and validated by the financial inspector. As soon as this is done, I will not fail to return to you with this information. I can tell you that the grant will be paid for a period of three years. Finally, I do not see any problems since, as I have just indicated, a candidate has presented himself for the Enghien Transition House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'll make my reply in two steps. More generally, with regard to the follow-up to the report of the Central Council, I welcome the fact that there is a need for concerted action to ensure its proper follow-up. But I continue to believe that there is a problem in leaving the operation of these transitional houses to private companies alone especially when they are not specialized in social but rather in security as is the case with G4S. I also understand that in order to make the decision to transfer people to a transitional home, their profile, non-dangerousness are analysed and, therefore, proselyt profiles or people at risk of escape cannot be taken into account. However, the report says the opposite, namely that socio-economic profiles or lack of knowledge of the language can be a barrier. I hope that you will discuss these issues correctly with the Council. As far as the temporary closure of the transitional house is concerned, your answers remain extremely vague. It is not known at all what prisons these detainees are in. How many are there? Are they incarcerated in prison in Wallonia? What happens to their reintegration projects? It's still a huge mess for them to find themselves overnight after a transitional home to a closed regime in a prison. I understand that a subsidy is acquired for a period of three months. I thank you for that, but I wonder when this transition house will be able to reopen. I would also like to thank you for carrying out the project to expand these transitional houses. As I have already told you, I sincerely believe in this project, but I think it is first and foremost essential to ensure that the current transitional houses can function properly so that a terrible coumac such as that observed for the Enghien transitional house is avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u39	Minister, the Court of Auditors has recently carried out an audit into the organisation and performance of HR policy in penitentiary services. You know that the statute of the penitentiary staff is governed by the law of 23 March 2019. That law provides the general framework to be developed in concrete and detailed implementing acts. These decisions are pending, which means that a large part of that law has not yet entered into force. However, the purpose of that law was to raise the performance and performance orientation of the prison system in its entirety to a higher level. In addition, the Court of Auditors comes to a number of other findings that raise concerns. So I have a few questions for you. The Court of Auditors notes that contractual employment is increasingly being called upon, and that this recruitment is also taking place without the intervention of Selor, without a uniform publication procedure, without an examination, only on the basis of an oral trial. This does not provide sufficient guarantees for the legal, safe, humane and individualised execution of the deprivation of liberty and the proper exercise of government authority. In addition, the promised penitentiary training service has not yet been set up and the necessary resources have not yet been provided for this purpose. It actually happens that people start on the work floor without even taking basic training. Hence my question: how and when will the recruitment and training of prison staff be improved? Therefore, in accordance with Article 14, 1° of the Law of 23 March 2019, the Minister must provide you with a deontological code. Can you tell me what the situation is there? The large number of absences due to illness and long leave delays have been an important pain in the prison system for two years now and for a long time now. How and in what timing do you think you can remedy this? The 2019 Act also contains provisions on ensuring the continuity of penitentiary service during strikes, the so-called minimum service. I will go into this in a written question, but I would like to know from you in advance when the legally imposed assessment of the guarantee on essential services during strikes, which should normally have been done on 1 July 2020, will be carried out. Because that evaluation is missing. During the debates and hearings with the Central Prison Supervisory Board, it became clear that it is essential to know whether or not to change the law on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by answering Mrs De Wit's first question and Mrs Matz' fourth question. In order to respond quickly to staff shortages, many young people under the age of 26 have been attracted to a job in prisons through the runway agreements. That system works well, both for school leavers and for the prison system, but, as the Court of Auditors rightly points out, it clashes with its limits. However, a statutory recruitment can only be based on a competition. We note that such selection procedures are cumbersome and administratively difficult, both for the candidates and for the prison system. We note that this means that many candidates will drop out during the procedures, because candidates will now find other opportunities and start elsewhere. In order to respond quickly and more flexibly to the human resources issue, we work together with the Minister of Civil Service on initiatives to simplify both statutory and contractual recruitment. On 23 December 2021, we adopted two important royal decisions at first reading in order to reach second reading after the Council of State's opinion and discussion. My administration is working to set up an Academy of Justice, of which the prison school will be a part. In 2021, the prison training budget was structurally increased by €700,000 per year. Meanwhile, the training centres for prison staff in Bruges, Marneffe and Merksplas are responsible for the training of prison staff. New employees receive their training in these centres. For employees with a first job agreement, a two-week shorter training programme has been developed. The current situation, characterized by a great shortage of staff, forces us to immediately deploy newly hired contract staff to the field where they are supervised by their more experienced colleagues. On Mrs De Wit's second question and Mrs Matz's third question, I can say that the draft is still being prepared. So far, a text has been finalized with a definition of the fundamental concepts and values. The project group is currently preparing an explanatory document on the articles of the Code of Ethics and the course of implementation. Consultation with the social partners has yet to take place. As for the backlog of leave, it is largely of historical origin. Currently, conditions are not conducive to reducing the backlog given the quarantine measures of many covid patients and the lack of staff. We hope to improve the situation once the pandemic has passed and we have eliminated the problem of staff shortages. We are doing everything we can to eliminate staff shortages. We have already taken a number of initiatives to this end. I'll give you a list. Firstly, we have strengthened the Human Resources Service of the FPS Justice Department. The Personnel Service of the Justice FPS has been strengthened by an additional 20 personnel. Those staff are mainly employed to carry out the selections. Secondly, we are investing in a campaign to highlight a job within the prison system. The first results of the campaigns for care staff and penitentiary staff in the province of Antwerp are already promising. Thirdly, we are discussing with the Minister of Civil Service how we can simplify statutory and contractual recruitment procedures. That is why two royal decrees have already been adopted. Fourthly, in the province of Antwerp there is a pilot project in which candidates can be recruited by law on the basis of a simplified procedure, i.e. no longer with PC tests but immediately with a selection interview. We are considering whether such a pilot project could also be organised in a French-speaking prison. With regard to Ms Matz's second question and Ms De Wit's fourth, the results of this assessment have already been discussed with the unions for the first time in June 2021. Although the evaluation figures requested by the trade unions need to be further refined, these figures showed that the number of employees present during the strike per establishment did not meet the standard of the model plan. The social dialogue on this subject, including corrective measures, will continue. If so, we will amend the legal framework this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u41	Minister, I fully understand that sometimes there is a need to move quickly, especially because we know that there is a shortage of staff. However, it is also important that everyone recruited should be given proper training, support and framework. This does not seem obvious to me when young people are simply placed on the work floor and then they are pumped or drowned. I do not know whether that will be the best approach, especially because they have a non-important task, which, according to your plan, will become increasingly important. It is good that we want to simplify certain procedures and make them more flexible. I don't have a problem with that. However, if a choice is to be made between contractual and statutory staff, equality must be maintained at all times. It cannot be more flexible for one person than for another, depending on the circumstances. That wouldn't be right. I look forward to designing deontological code. I understand that's being worked on. I also understand that there has been an evaluation of the minimum service provision. The lack of staff in the workplace has now become apparent. However, the legislation is being bypassed by merely holding strikes of 24 hours and 48 hours. Mr Minister, efforts are being made to avoid this. So we really need to think about this 24-hour and 48-hour period, even after the evaluation, if it turns out that this is really the way to proceed, that the basic rights cannot be sufficiently respected and that there is not enough guaranteed staff on the floor. I am certainly looking forward to the evaluation you will make together with all the actors involved. I hope that we will soon be able to hear about this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is felt that there is a tension between the need to have staff, and thus to rush or overstep a number of training courses, and the need to be trained in a particularly difficult occupation. The idea is to be able to reconcile these two principles in order to be able to offer more staff and to have agents who are well trained. I have taken note of the fact that you are going to draw the conclusions of this evaluation and take action. We will follow this file with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u43	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55024283C, No. 55024476C, No. 55024494C, No. 55024496C and No. Mr Nabil Boukili's 55024523C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u44	Mrs Rohonyi, you know that, since the sixth reform of the State, the Communities are now entrusted with many tasks in the execution of the main sentences, via the houses of justice. There are several consequences for the Communities, and not only for Flanders. For example, the government agreement for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation contains a two-page chapter entitled "Community Justice". It also refers to the establishment of a Community Justice Code. I therefore do not see how it would be problematic for Flanders to form the same observation and establish a Flemish Justice Agency. In any event, this fact remains consistent with the sharing of competences. Then I can confirm to you that I was consulted, like all my counterparts, by my colleagues in the federal government responsible for institutional reforms. Besides, you know I like to prepare files. Therefore, I have asked the President of my FPS to begin a reflection on this issue with officials of his administration and judicial experts. Finally, I can tell you that the ICD "Houses of Justice" meets very regularly. For reasons of urgency of agendas, the last formal meeting with the relevant ministers - scheduled for 7 December - had to be postponed, but the decisions to be taken there were approved via a digital ICD on 9 December. The intermediate meetings with the heads of the administrations and representatives of the various ministers are held at a steady pace, at least one meeting per month, via a permanent working group. The last one was held on 14 January. The next one will take place on February 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic677x.u45	Minister, thank you for your shorter answer than usual. You feel an unease with this question... It is quite obvious that the sixth reform of the state – even if my party was one of the only ones not to vote for it – has consequences. Nevertheless, there is a clear difference between including a chapter in a general policy note, such as in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, and creating a department on justice. It is the least of all things in your head to make sure that the competencies of this department are strictly limited so as not to encroach on federal jurisdiction and in this case yours in this matter. Very often, Mrs Demir justified her announcements as Flemish Minister of Justice by saying that she was aiming for efficiency. I expect results in terms of efficiency because what I fear is that these advances are not intended to prepare for a new reform of the State, when it is absolutely not its role, whether it is a communitisation of justice that aims at a different justice system depending on the language of the person in question or a regionalisation of justice, where the question arises as to where our Court of Cassation, our Court of Appeal in Brussels or the Council of State would be located. If the Flemish government intends to follow one of these paths, the least it can do would be to discuss them with you and with the actors on the ground. We cannot end up with a reform of the State which, once again, does not respect what the actors on the ground want, in particular lawyers and magistrates, and which is therefore to the detriment of the justice system itself. I hope that Ministers Clarinval and Verlinden will pay attention to this. In any case, as far as we are concerned, we will be very attentive to this in the context of the work we are dealing with in the committees of the House and Senate on the evaluation of the overly successive reforms of the State. Thank you.
