ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u1	Questions Nos 55025428C, 55025665C and 55025666C by Ms Valerie Van Peel are transformed into written questions. The answers will be sent to him as soon as possible, since we will have them quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u2	Mrs. Evita Willaert is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u3	Minister, we have recently been contacted, and perhaps you too, by a young mother. This one's a nurse. Being in contact in the operating room with substances that endanger the development of the foetus, it has been removed, as required by law, and this seven months before the intended birth of the child. It was June 2021. Meanwhile, as she does not want to remain inactive and wishes to be able to enjoy this time, she decides to take a teacher's training, thus believing that she can give meaning to her mandatory maternity rest, without harming her baby's interests. In December, her health insurance fund informed her that she was losing all her entitlement to benefits, as it was prohibited to take training during maternity leave. She tells her that she will no longer receive any form of benefit until June. This situation therefore leaves us very puzzled. Is the regulation of compulsory maternity leave not characterised here by its rigidity? There seems to me to be too little room for the various situations that arise in practice and for sincere and well-founded initiatives that are sanctioned. The primary purpose of the regulation is the protection of mothers and children. Since this gap is mandatory, the question is how training is compromised. Minister, can you tell me the legal basis that provides that training during compulsory maternity leave results in de facto loss of entitlement to benefits? If this base exists, do you not think it needs to be revised or at least improved? Will you take an initiative in this regard? She stated that colleagues had followed training without concern during this long period of compulsory maternity leave. It is therefore quite possible that not all mutuals will interpret and apply the rules in the same way. In the case of this pregnant nurse, it appeared that the rigid attitude of the mutual, rather than the legislation itself, was at the root of the problem. How do you see that? How are you going to solve this common problem? In the case of this young mother, INAMI finally intervened in her favour. Will you consider whether a systematic intervention is also desirable in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u4	In the case of complete removal of work as a protective measure against maternity taken by the employer under the employment law of 16 March 1971, the worker concerned may, in the event of a specific risk to pregnancy, claim a maternity allowance for exposure to agents, processes or working conditions. However, maternity allowance for complete removal shall not be payable to the person entitled to complete removal from work who commences or continues an activity which is not subject to the provisions of the Labour Law of 16 March 1971. I refer in particular to Article 219b (5) of the Health Insurance Decree of 3 July 1996. In that context, an activity means any activity of a productive nature carried out in the social sphere, even if it is not paid for, but carried out as a service of friendship. If the labour law does not apply, there shall be no mandatory assessment by the employer of the nature, extent and duration of exposure to agents, processes or working conditions in order to assess any risk to the safety or health and effects on the pregnancy or lactation of the worker and the health of the child. That evaluation should teach the employer what general measures he or she should take. As an exception to the principle that there should be no activity not subject to the employment law, it is expressly provided that maternity benefits may nevertheless be granted to the person entitled to continue, during the period of complete removal from work, the selfemployed activity which she performed immediately prior to the period of removal from work. To this end, it must seek prior authorisation from the medical adviser of its sickness fund. In addition, she must submit a medical certificate from her treating doctor showing that the activity does not pose a risk to her health or to her child's health. It shall not exercise that activity on the days or hours on which it would normally have worked if no measure of maternity protection had been taken. If the insured person undergoes training on his/her own initiative during the complete removal of work without a practical component, i.e. without an internship, he/she may continue to claim maternity benefits for removal from work. Such training does not constitute a productive activity carried out in society. However, in the case of training with a practical component, which qualifies it as a productive activity carried out in social life, it is necessary to examine whether there is a subjection to the Labour Act of 16 March 1971 in the context of the implementation of the internship. In the affirmative, if the employment law is applicable, the insured person may continue to claim maternity benefits for removal from work during training. However, if this is not the case, the grant of maternity benefit should be refused for the period during which the insured person is performing the traineeship. It is therefore a factual analysis of whether the labour law is actually applicable here or not. If the traineeship in the course of the training is carried out during the maternity leave period, during which the worker must, in any event, cease any activity, I can refer to my answer given at a previous meeting of that committee to questions relating to the exercise of an activity during the maternity leave. First, if this internship is carried out during the optional prenatal period of maternity leave or during the period of compulsory maternity leave, the maternity allowance will be refused to the worker for each day on which the condition of complete cessation of any activity is not fulfilled. I say "every day." Secondly, if this internship is carried out during the optional postnatal period of maternity leave, the worker is deemed to have terminated her maternity leave from the first day of this internship. As from that date, maternity benefits may no longer be granted for the remaining period of postnatal rest. That is my general answer to the legal context. The subject you are referring to was discussed during the last consultation between the INAMI Compensation Service and the National Intermutualist College, which took place on Thursday, March 3. The principles I have communicated to you will also be mentioned in the circulars applicable to insurers. The insured person's insurance body has itself contacted NAMI. In the meantime, maternity benefits due for the period of work separation have been paid to the insured person concerned. In fact, it was a training course for which no traineeship was to be carried out at the moment, and therefore no activity was carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u5	Minister, thank you for this information. I will reply by saying several things. First of all, it is necessary to be very clear with the people in these situations. For having lived all the pre-natal administrative periods, I can testify that it is sometimes complicated to be there, to distinguish between the case where the employer has the opportunity to reorganize the work of the person concerned or not. In this case, it was more of a private initiative outside of any employer's proposal. That seems important to me. Second, there is a need for more clarity in this shadow zone linked to formation. One might imagine that a pregnant woman would do a whole series of preparatory trainings for childbirth or maternity and that, therefore, mutualities might wonder whether a particular type of training would fit into the scheme and would call it into question. I understand that there was a meeting and reorganization to try to avoid all of these interpretations, since it was found that in some cases the allowances were paid without problems but not in others. In the case I have just mentioned, the compensation has been paid in fine. So that's good news for this person. I hope that clarity will be made for future cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u6	Minister, many private care providers can make use of the structural reduction in the employer's contribution for all employees who are fully subject to the basic principles of social security. In the context of the tax shift introduced by the previous government, this measure was thoroughly reformed. In particular, the low and average wages currently benefit from this structural reduction. However, public employers cannot make use of the reduction in employers' contributions. The employees of these public employers, such as the Zorgbedrijf Antwerpen, are not always fully subject to social security. As far as accidents at work and occupational diseases are concerned, for example, a public employer often provides for insurance himself. Public care companies, such as the Zorgbedrijf Antwerpen, are very difficult to cope with. They are actually disadvantaged in relation to the private health care companies, which do get the reduction. They are therefore unable to invest sufficiently in their services and staff. If they did get that discount, they could invest even more in their services and staff. In Antwerp, efforts are being made to solve this problem by proposing a fairly far-reaching privatisation. However, we can ask ourselves whether it is desirable to necessarily privatise all public care providers. If it is really a choice and there are other reasons for doing so, it is everyone's freedom to make informed decisions. It would be a pity, however, if it were only out of that consideration. It does not always benefit the care of the most vulnerable. Minister, do you recognize this unequal playing field? Do you want and can you eliminate the inequalities in the structural reduction of the RSZ contributions between the public and private care providers, so that not all public care companies feel obliged to switch to a public legal form? If so, what slopes do you have in mind? How do you intend to address this inequality? If not, why don't you want to?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u7	I would perhaps first like to make a number of clarifications, Mrs Lanjri, concerning the application of the tax shift to which you refer. The tax shift provided for the reduction of the basic percentage of the employer's contribution and a strengthening of the structural reduction of the employer's contribution to low wages. However, the reduction in the basic rate only applied to the employment which belonged to the so-called category 1. These are employments for which the worker is subject to all branches of social security and which do not belong to the so-called Maribel sectors and the sheltered and social workshops. For the Maribel sectors, the so-called category 2 and the sheltered and social workshops, the so-called category 3, own measures were proposed. For these sectors additional resources were provided for the following measures: strengthening the so-called Social Maribel, strengthening hospitals for the financing of statutory pensions and strengthening the structural reduction specific to categories 2 and 3. The then government has chosen to use the budgetary margin for the tax shift for employees in category 1 exclusively for workers in that category which it released. I quote from the explanatory memorandum to the draft law at the time: 'Even though it cannot propose the same reform as for category 1. It cannot re-use the budget for the structural reduction of the employer's contribution to the structural reduction, as well as the budget for the non-transfer of the 1% farm levy." For category 2 workers there is a special system of reduction of employers' contributions. An employer who belongs to the social profit or Maribel sectors is entitled to a flat-rate reduction of contributions, similar to what exists for the employers in category 1, but it does not automatically belong to the employer in question. For the employers of the so-called Maribel sectors, a mutualisation principle was introduced through the intervention of a Maribel fund which is fed through the RSZ. On the basis of reduced contributions collected, the employer may receive financial compensation for a Maribelte employment. In the context of the tax shift, an additional budget has been provided for Category 2, which was intended to strengthen the social Maribel funds. In this way, additional Maribelteemployments and an increase in the intervention in the coverage of labour costs became possible. In addition to the social Maribel reduction, there is also a structural reduction for workers in Category 2, which consists of a basic flat rate and a low wage component which is directly due to the employers concerned. This structural reduction was also reinforced in the context of the tax shift. However, on the basis of the general principles, this structural reduction applies only to employers who are subject to all branches of social security. As a result, public employers, including local authorities, cannot make use of them. I think you will find with me that the different treatment of institutions as a result of the tax shift is not easy to reduce to a difference in treatment between private and public institutions. The different treatment is due to the categorization of employers and to the application of basic principles which go back to the way in which the reductions in social contributions for the purpose of supporting employment in the 1980s and 1990s took shape, depending on whether they were employment in the profit or non-profit sector. You do not hear me deny that there are differences between the public and private sectors in terms of reducing labour costs through RSZ reductions, while they do operate in the same commercial environment for several of their activities. Of course, these differences can also have an impact on the choice of privatisation, but there are differences in several areas. Therefore, privatisation decisions may also be the result of factors other than labour cost subsidies through RSZ reductions. There are differences in terms of subsidies, the application of the legal status regime, labour law legislation and tax treatment, and indeed there are also the parafiscal differences that I mentioned. So I cannot say so easily and unequivocally that simply because of the difference in parafiscality public care companies switch to a private form of justice. Reality is more complex. That doesn't mean I don't look at the issue and I don't pay attention to it. However, in all honesty, there is no immediate, simple solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u8	Minister, I know it's complex. You've outlined it again. There are indeed several differences in the various organisations of care providers. The previous government has opted for a different approach to the support provided. It is not the case that one sector has received support and the other is not at all. The question, however, is whether we are giving everyone the same weapons and whether the weapons or means given are sufficient to create a level playing field and to avoid privatisation purely because of the financial problems caused by the other parafiscal treatment. If that's the only reason to privatise, that's wrong. If there are other reasons why privatisation is considered acceptable, then the parties concerned should know for themselves. However, it must not be just for this reason. That is why I would ask you to look at the dossier, which you say is complex, and to check whether we are giving everyone the same instruments or weapons, and whether we still need to refine or adjust it. I see you nodding. I hope you're willing to do that. I know that this is a complex matter, and you do not now have a clear answer. I hope, however, that you will be prepared to look into the matter further. After all, we share the same view, namely that we must avoid privatisation if it is not necessary or necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u9	Minister, I am not telling you anything by telling you that the Federation of Plastic Arts (FAP) has just released a proposal for a minimum remuneration which it would like to require in all places subsidized by the federated entities. The press, the trade unions, the Chamber of Consultation of the Plastic Arts, the Council of Culture were therefore contacted. In fact, during an exhibition in a subsidised centre, everyone is paid except the visual artist or plasticist, unlike the cultural animator, the communication officer, the technician who hangs. Apart from the act of creation, the act of exhibition requires work: design and selection, supervision of hanging, packaging of works, etc. Copyright is one thing, a contract of employment and a commitment to the stamp are another. FAP is asking for a charter of good practice and a tariff schedule, as is the case in other countries, for example in France. This is a matter of fairness with respect to other cultural sectors. Without any change in remuneration, while the reform of the "artist status" is advancing, their situation remains in the status quo since, in the absence of remuneration proportional to the work undertaken during the public exhibition of their work, plasticians will only have very exceptional access to this status and will not be able to benefit from unemployment insurance. I guess I don't teach you anything here either. Minister, in reading this appeal from the FAP and not finding anything in the initial notes, I wondered what was planned especially in the context of this reform in relation to this federation and this particular sector of activity. The Minister of Culture said in committee on 22 February, she awaits the report of the WITA technical group and the consultation with the federal government in order to be able to take a position. What do you intend to do to allow artists to also cling their sector to the convoy of reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u10	Madam President, I agree absolutely with the industry's request to make agreements on fair remuneration within the sector. For part of the sector, collective labour agreements guarantee minimum remuneration for employees. For arts workers who are self-employed or under 1bis status, there are currently no compulsory agreements. When we launched the Working in the Arts reform journey last March, we set out three objectives: strengthening artistic practice, solidarity with and within the sector and ensuring a broader basis for the social protection of artistic workers. The fight against invisible and unpaid work is one of the key objectives of the reform. The introduction of a minimum remuneration reinforces the artistic practice of art workers, allowing them to earn sufficient income from their work and to invest in their artistic practice. The introduction of a minimum remuneration also requires solidarity within the sector, the solidarity of sponsors and artistic organisations to set aside sufficient resources to pay for the artistic work of arts workers. In the course of the reform process, I have planned, together with the Ministers for Employment and the Independents, a second phase in which we will also discuss binding sectoral agreements on minimum remuneration. The arts sector in the broad sense will once again be associated with this process through workinginthearts.be. With regard to cooperation with the federated entities, we have already asked, within the framework of the CIM Culture working group, what initiatives it plans to ensure fair remuneration in the sector. The Flemish Community referred to the Juist is juist initiative launched by oKo, the Flemish federation of the professional arts sector. This Juist is a juist initiative establishes clear and equitable principles of compensation and cooperation in the arts sector. In the VIA3 agreement for the same sector, the Flemish Community provides means to further develop this aspect. Raising awareness of the sector and providing guidelines are important first steps towards the introduction of mandatory minimum remuneration. I invite all federated entities to take initiatives that strengthen the professional artistic practice of arts workers. The declaration of binding force of sub-sectoral or sectoral collective labour agreements containing provisions on conditions of remuneration and working conditions by means of a royal decree falls within the competence of the Federal Minister, Mr Dermagne. However, there is nothing to prevent the Communities from including minimum remuneration rules for arts workers in their conditions of grant to the institutions. I also put this proposal on the table of the working group of the Interministerial Conference on Culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u11	Minister, thank you. This second phase will indeed be very important. The minimum remuneration will be a major issue for these artists. You have spoken of solidarity; it will also be discussed in the conditions of renewal. Indeed, for visual and visual artists, exhibition is generally worth compensation, regardless of cultural spaces. The current conditions may create a complicated situation because, in the law and in the mechanisms of unemployment benefit, exposure is not equivalent to remuneration. We therefore risk a complex situation in which visual artists will sometimes work in a very visible way through exhibitions, but will still not be paid. This second phase is therefore important, as are awareness-raising initiatives. As the texts are being drafted, there is probably a reflection to be carried out upstream of the writing of these texts on the question of the days provided and the rules of stamp and renewal. For this sector in particular, this could be extremely damaging. Our aim is not to reduce the basis that will benefit from this status, but to broaden it. I therefore count on you and your colleagues to pay close attention to this, which I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u12	Minister, in our social security there are three systems, one for employees, one for civil servants and one for the self-employed. Each statute is governed by its own rules, procedures, rights and benefits. There are, for example, many differences in terms of illness and disability. For example, on maternity rest there are differences between self-employed and employees. Many differences can also be found for unemployment, disability and pension rights, among others. The differences between these statutes, which have grown or can be explained historically, have made our social security system particularly complex. The differences between the statutes are not always justified or just. Moreover, it is becoming more and more common for people to switch between structures. One can be an employee for a while and then become an official, or an employee and then a self-employed person, or a combination of the three. Those concerned are confronted with an almost impossible or at least complex system. In order to make the social security system fairer and simpler, the Vivaldi parties have included in the government agreement that the major differences between social security systems should be addressed. Last year, for example, the government took the initiative to calculate the pension rights of self-employed workers in the same way as those of workers by abolishing the harmonisation coefficient. The aim is actually to bring together the different systems of employees, self-employed persons and civil servants, without affecting the acquired rights. In the coalition agreement, we also agreed to make a proposal by the end of 2021, i.e. by the end of last year. For the time being, however, we have not heard anything about it. Mr Minister, are you working with your fellow ministers, Clarinval, Dermagne, De Sutter and Lalieux, on a proposal on pensions - to tackle and further harmonise the large differences between the statutes of employees, self-employed persons and civil servants without affecting the acquired or accumulated rights? How are you getting on with this proposal? When will you come to Parliament with this? When will you take it to the government? What differences between social security systems do you want to address as a matter of priority? What is the set timeline? In what way do you address the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u13	It is indeed the government's ambition to bring the statutes of employees, self-employed persons and civil servants together with respect for acquired rights. This ambition has also been recalled in the action plan I drew up under the European Pillar of Social Rights, which implements the European Recommendation on access to social protection for workers and self-employed persons, which I also presented to the European Commission last year. I don't go into what's in it and how it was prepared, but I'll give you the following. The plan was also submitted to the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed and to the National Labour Council. It has therefore been discussed with both the self-employed and employees and employers. Even if we are striving for convergence, we must also take account of the specific characteristics of different professions. I'm sure I don't have to convince you of that. In a number of circumstances, it is not an identical protection but an equivalent protection. In future developments it is important to leave the necessary room for social dialogue. In addition to the proposals that result from this, there are other punctual measures, and we have also examined them against the question of whether they offer similar protection. For example, the extension of maternity leave was extended for both employees and self-employed persons. We also try to systematically look at the dossiers from the broad perspective of employees, self-employed workers and civil servants in other initiatives or in other policies. If, apart from punctual initiatives in which we are always trying to keep the various groups in sight, we want to achieve general convergence, this requires a very thorough preparation. It is about the architecture of the systems and the financing. We have not been able to put a lot of energy into that because of the corona crisis. On the other hand, the corona crisis has just demonstrated the weaknesses in the protection we offer to specific groups. Some groups that are not so well protected by social security have felt that hard during the corona period. It is not for nothing that we have strengthened the temporary unemployment scheme for workers, introduced and strengthened temporary crisis measures and bridging credit for the self-employed and made a lot of adjustments to social security in order to support vulnerable groups properly during that period. In addition, we have worked on improving the situation for specific professional groups. First of all, I would like to refer to the subject of the previous discussion, namely the artist's statute. Artists, artists and people working in the artistic sector can be registered and integrated into social security in a variety of ways, but that is often far from simple and far from unambiguous and does not always provide good protection. Well, for the people of the arts, we are not making a new statute, which is not the intention, but we are making the existing statutes, the chambers of social security, more accessible and more effective in terms of protection. The social situation of various other specific professions is also evaluated. Again, we are doing so in order to be able to draw up concrete proposals. Some of these evaluations have already been carried out and proposals are already in progress. Others still have a long way to go. Let me give you some examples. The first example relates to the reception parents. Over the past year, the competent administrations have carried out an analysis of the Sui-generis status of the reception parents. The social partners have also been asked to review the statute and to make proposals for short- and long-term improvement. The aim is to improve the social status of reception parents with due respect for everyone's powers this year. A second example is about the carers. The FPS Social Security also carried out a quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the current family care status. Both the sickness funds and the interest groups representing the carers and the RVA have each contributed to the evaluation, as have the various advisory councils concerned. The third example concerns platform workers. I do not need to remind you that we have held a detailed consultation on this issue and that we are proposing a reform in the context of the modernisation of the law on industrial relations, draft that Parliament has not yet achieved. The fourth example is about volunteering. In consultation with the High Council for Volunteers, I will have FPS Social Security carry out a thorough study on volunteering in our country and the bottlenecks that volunteers face. Then there's the specific group of sex workers. Together with my colleagues responsible for work and self-employed workers and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Gender Equality and Diversity, and in consultation with the sector concerned, it will be examined which specific points of interest should be taken into account in order to offer sex workers optimal protection based on the specific characteristics of their activity. Wherever possible, we in the government are striving for a common approach for civil servants, employees and the self-employed. This approach is supported by the relevant federal ministers, supported by their administrations. Similarly, the aim is to improve the transparency of our social protection by focusing on three axes: simplification, digitisation and automation. In the context of other actions, I am somewhat outside the field of social security stricto sensu....................................................................................................................................................................................... One example is the Federal Action Plan Mental Resilience, which covers occupational diseases among others. We also focus strongly on the monitoring and evaluation of policies, including cross-cutting. For example, open data coordination policies further develop and exploit the potential of the available data. A more thorough use of administrative data in the field of social security, health and taxation plays a central role in policy preparation and follow-up. To this end, a pathway will be drawn up in collaboration with the main data providers and users. Mrs Lanjri, my answers are wider than what you raised in your question. I wanted to sketch the panorama with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u14	It is true, Minister, that the government or Parliament has always sought equal treatment in specific cases. For example, in my legislative proposal, I advocated that it should apply to everyone, i.e. civil servants, employees and self-employed persons. That was approved, too. In addition, the government has extended paternity leave, including for self-employed workers. That is a good thing, but we are dealing with specific dossiers. This is also the case for the other examples you give, namely the artists, the reception parents, the carers and the platform workers. I have a warm heart for those groups. For example, I myself tabled a bill on the pensions of reception parents, to which the government is finalising. I will certainly continue to support that. However, the coalition agreement agreed that the three systems should be more coordinated. That is, for example, about maternity rest. Why do self-employed people have only 12 weeks of maternity rest today and others 15 weeks? It is also about pensions. Why is the pension for civil servants calculated differently than for employees? Mind you, we do not want to touch on the past and built-up rights, but we do need to look at them in a different way in the future. I realize that it is indeed a difficult global exercise. But we have to make that exercise. You are suggesting that you were faced with the covid crisis. In any case, I urge you to instruct your administration to undertake the global reforms that will be needed to bring the three systems where it is necessary and useful to grow closer together and to take the social partners to the bath. There will always be differences. If a difference is justified, I don't think anyone has a problem with it. But unfair differences, we must try to get rid of them. So I will certainly give you some respite in view of the covid crisis, but in a few months' time I will ask you again how far you are with the exercise. You say that you have submitted this to, among other things, the General Management Committee (ABC) and the National Labour Council. Hopefully, before the summer, you will come up with a more global approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u15	Madam President, Minister, on 22 January 2022 I questioned you about the two years of punishment for people who have not paid membership fees for their mutuality since 2019. Thus, for two years, namely in 2022 and 2023, they lose both their right to the additional allowances..... often it is about hearing aids, spectacles or maternity care... and the supplementary insurances, which are often dental care or hospitalisation insurance. So I was pleased to hear that you are in favour of a review of that time. You referred to the negotiations between the poverty groups and the mutualities. You also asked me to come back to the case later. As a good representative of the people, I do the same. So I ask my question, because there is some urgency, especially in the present times. Not only does the current measure cause a great deal of administrative nuisance and concern. The problem also affects many tens of thousands of vulnerable families throughout the country. People who are already in serious financial difficulties sometimes run the risk of getting a very expensive bill after hospitalisation, for example because of corona. My questions are as follows. Is there now a royal decision in the making, in which the two years of punishment are reviewed? If so, what does the new scheme entail? Is a six-month sentence the legal minimum? Can it be shorter in theory, for example, for a month? Can the penalty period in theory be completely removed? If not, can you clarify the reasons in detail?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u16	Madam President, Mr Colenbunders, we have indeed talked about this. I can't give you much further details today. The information I have at the moment is the following. The technical working group of the National Intermutualist College has drawn up a draft Royal Decree, but this has yet to be supplemented by a ministerial decision. As soon as this has been completed, it will be transferred to the health insurance authority. Then, as usual, the file is transferred to my policy cell, with an analysis by the inspection service and an opinion from the supervisory board. Therefore, I cannot give you details of the proposal put forward by the sickness funds together with the poverty groups. I can tell you that my policy cell has had positive contacts with all parties. I am therefore confident at the moment that a solution can be found that meets the concerns expressed. I want to nuance one element right away. You seem to suggest that tens of thousands more families have been affected since 1 January 2022. That's not quite right. After all, only the legal status of these persons changes. As of 1 January, members who have not paid their contribution for 24 months transferred from the status of "suspension" to the status of "repealed" member. However, in both cases the right to claim an advantage under supplementary insurance was no longer enjoyed. In practice, therefore, nothing changed at the time of the transition to 1 January 2022. But I would like to add one more detail. As I said last time, I agree with you that people who are in a situation of great concern should not be discouraged from correcting a situation with or without the help of, for example, an OCMW. In this respect, I do indeed believe that a change in the waiting period is justified in certain cases. I think I should also repeat that a distinction must be made between the compulsory supplementary insurance of the sickness fund and optional insurance, such as dental or hospitalisation insurance, which can be concluded with the insurance company of a sickness fund, but also with a private insurance company. The latter is also covered by European insurance legislation, as I mentioned last time. Finally, you also referred to a possible hospitalization because of covid. You may not be aware of this, but fortunately no fee supplements should be charged in that case. This is also the case when, for medical reasons, one is generally admitted to a single room. However, the debate on supplements goes beyond that, and you will agree with me on the scope of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u17	Minister, we can go into detail, but the bottom line is that a large group of people will be the victims of this. You still do not tell us anything, you do not give details, but the case will be implemented from 1 January. You have already postponed it for a year, so why not postpone it for another year until we have an effective solution? In this way, the associations of poverty can also have their say in the dossier. You say you're heading in the right direction, but in the end people haven't been helped. Especially in this period of financial crisis where we really do not know where we will end up at the end of the year, it is a surplus that we absolutely must do something about. You must accept your responsibility, Minister, and make it clear that you will initially postpone it for another year and that you will, in the second instance, greatly reduce or even abolish times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u18	Minister, together with Flemish Minister for Work, Hilde Crevits, you announced on Monday a new cooperation protocol for the activation of long-term sick. On an annual basis, some 5,000 Flemish long-term sick people find their way back to work. You both want to increase that number to 7,500 in 2022, half of it. By 2024, 12,000 long-term sick people will have to return to the labour market. The RIZIV will be responsible for the funding, 4,800 euros per route to activate these people. I am particularly interested in the details of the protocol. I would therefore ask you to deliver this document to Parliament. However, I have a few other questions about this. When can we expect similar agreements with Actiris and Le Forem? How exactly do you define the protocol on a successful return to work, on the minimum number of hours, customisation, status, duration? How will these be established? The draft budget for 2022 refers to other figures, e.g. 4,600 deer employments for 2022. This figure also applies to the whole country. Does this mean that you have increased the objectives since then? Has the budget been adapted to this? Can you share your new objectives for all regions? What amounts will you provide for in the budget for the years 2022, 2023, and 2024? Will the counsellors of the regional mediation services, like the back-to-work coordinator, be able to send a sick person back to the counseling doctor of the sickness fund if the sick person does not cooperate adequately on the journey? How exactly is this going to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u19	There's no problem with delivering the text. I will deliver an electronic copy of the signed protocol to the secretariat, Mr Colebunders. This protocol is important: it is the first time that agreements are made at ministerial level. The text sets out the common objectives, definitions and ambitions, and the roles and commitments of the various persons and organisations involved in the process. It is not a legal instrument, it is not a real cooperation agreement, but it is a politically very important mutual commitment of the signatory ministers. This protocol should now be further operationalised in an updated framework agreement. This will be done by mutual agreement between the relevant administrations, the RIZIV and the VDAB. In developing the processes, the VIs and, for example, the GTB will also be involved as a special partner. To your first question I can answer that we are talking to the policy cells of Ministers Morreale and Clerfayt to conclude a similar protocol. The RIZIV will also conclude a new framework agreement with Le Forem and Actiris. These operational framework agreements will implement evaluation criteria and process agreements. It also includes the definition of a successful return to work and the way in which it is measured. You will be able to read in the protocol that we have a broad view of work. This means that we want each individual to be accompanied to a job tailored to the possibilities and needs, not only in terms of content, but also in terms of size and place of employment, for example. The numbers included in the protocol relate to the number of routes started. However, we know that not every route started will result in successful employment. This is fully in line with our vision of creating opportunities. The entry into the pathway should no longer be considered as the risk of losing a benefit, but rather as an opportunity to find a job. It will also not succeed for every person within the year. These are people with often serious health problems. This means that in some cases a longer and more intensive journey is needed. Employment results and budgetary objectives shall take this into account. The targets for Flanders for the number of routes to be started are agreed: 7,500 in 2022, 10,000 in 2023, 12,000 in 2024. For the other regions, the discussions are still ongoing, but they will be in line with the overall figures agreed during the federal government budget negotiations, i.e. 5,700 additional sections in 2023 and 11,700 in 2024, compared to the situation in 2021 under the RIZIV framework agreements with the regional services. I am always talking about trajectories under these RIZIV framework agreements, i.e. alongside routes that are being launched outside these framework agreements. The TNW coordinator will not be able to send a sick person back to an advisory physician. What you are probably referring to is the demand for a medical examination if, despite reminders and the support offered, the person concerned does not complete the questionnaire. We are, of course, counting on a commitment from the insured person who has voluntarily signed a declaration of commitment with a request for assistance and guidance. Given the voluntary nature, the regional services will not report on the commitment of those concerned, let alone that there would be a sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic718x.u20	We're waiting impatiently for protocol to be able to study it properly. We'll definitely take our time. I ask myself these questions out of a great concern. Your Flemish colleague from Work does not seem particularly concerned with the fate of long-term sick people, and that is very important to us. I know from my own experience as a délégué what hopelessness these people are dealing with. Your Flemish colleague is only talking about the shortage in the labour market, but if that is the basis of your approach, then everything has to start with figures and not with the well-being of the workers. One of the causes of the cut is the job offer itself, which is sometimes undersized, both in terms of pay and job quality. That's why people just don't want to do those jobs. Make it more attractive. The current cut-off can be partially solved by activation of sick people and can turn out to be exactly the opposite of their help heal through deer employment. I hope you've thought about that before. This could just be counterproductive. In any case, I have no confidence in the Flemish Government in that regard. From the experiences I have, I add: with the VDAB and its partners people are very often songs. That's the way it is. They are numbers with a price tag, which costs a lot of money. Let us not take that tour with the long-term sick. I'll be sure to keep an eye on this file.
