ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman and vice-president are in another committee, I am willing to chair this topical debate on the contamination of salmonella products in the Ferrero plant. Minister, I welcome you. Since this is a topical debate, each has two minutes to ask its question. If you have two questions, you have four minutes but try to get to the essentials. Mrs. Dierick is absent. I'm gonna take my turn. We'll start with Mrs. Gijbels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u2	Mr Minister, I have tabled a question which has become somewhat outdated in the meantime. She deals with the infections found in products from the Ferrero factory in Aarlen. I understand that the first link to this plant has been established in the United Kingdom, but you will probably explain it later. Now that there is some evolution in the matter and new new news reports have appeared regularly, we are already more aware of what has or has not happened. Can you explain whether this is an infected ingredient or an infection in the production process, such as a filter contaminated with salmonella? Can you also explain what form of salmonella is involved? I also think I understand that an salmonella infection was detected at the plant in question earlier this year. What were the consequences of that? What mechanism will be put into effect? Is the BFSA not automatically informed about this? If you look back on that now, do you think it would have been appropriate if an automatic warning had left for the BFSA so that an inspection could have happened on the spot? There is also slow communication through the production site. She hasn't communicated for a long time. What's your opinion on that? Do you think that is appropriate or did you address this lack of communication? I believe that this is something that is absolutely avoidable in such situations. If we then study the website of the BFSA a little more closely since the infection at the Ferrerofabriek, we noticed that several reports of salmonella infection were made elsewhere. In comparison to other years, were more infections detected this year? If so, is there a reason for this? What is currently happening on the production site itself? Is it still closed? What research is being carried out? What is the latest state of play on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u3	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to pass on the introduction to my questions, because you know what this is about. My questions are somewhat in line with colleagues' questions. In your opinion, should Ferrero not have informed the BFSA immediately when the infection was detected? What is the usual procedure for establishing infection after self-control? Should companies be obliged to inform the BFSA immediately after the detection of an infection? Does the self-control system offer sufficient protection? What will the consequences of this negligence be for the company? Some of the victims are seriously ill. Will the company have to cover, for example, their medical costs or costs associated with absenteeism? The BEUC (Office Européen des Unions des Consommateurs) was not easy with its criticism of the European food agencies and of the BFSA in particular. There seem to be gaps in reporting and there are also disturbances and laxity. Do you recognise these comments regarding the BFSA? How will you approach and resolve these comments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u4	Minister, I will not go back to the whole problem, which we already know, and I will allow myself to ask my questions directly. Minister, at the present time, has the AFSCA investigation at the Arlon plant been able to provide some answers as to the possible cause of salmonella infections? An investigation was also initiated by the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office. Have you ever received any information about this? In addition, have you been able to determine whether the 20 additional cases that have occurred in recent months were indeed related to the Ferrero plant in Arlon? How does AFSCA explain Ferrero's concealment of the presence of salmonella last December? In the light of this case, how do you view the self-control procedure, which is in fact one of the foundations of our food security? Should this procedure be reviewed? What other measures could be put in place to ensure that this does not happen again? Do you have any idea when the Ferrero plant will recover its production authorization?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u5	Madam President, excuse me. At the same time, I have to assume the Social Affairs Committee. Mr Minister, I imagine colleagues have recalled the big dates. I noted them in writing in the question I addressed to you. So I am not going to reread the various crucial dates of this obviously unfortunate episode. That's the least we can say. He also questions both the company side and the authorities. I'd like to ask you a battery of questions. On December 15, yes or no, had Salmonella detection been reported to AFSCA? What bothers me, when we go through the press, is that some people say we have to report it, when others say we don't. When we observe the decrees and the famous document on compulsory notification and its limits, which has, moreover, been modified recently, the least we can say is that it is everything but clear. The limits of the notification seem, in any case, to suggest in the official document that we should not notify what, I find, poses a large number of questions, including the reason why this document was amended to that effect in July 2021. What were the reactions of the Belgian authorities if the detection took place? I would also like you to tell us more about the AFSCA's control plan for this company. What controls have been carried out and for what purpose over the last five years? On what dates? With what results? With what follow-up of self-controls, both before and after the episode of salmonella detection, about which we have the information on December 15th? Moreover, since exactly when have the Belgian authorities been aware of the presence of salmonella in chocolates? Was it as early as March 23rd? On 25 March, at a time when the European decision to put these chocolates on a list of suspicious products had taken place, what were the actions of the companies in Belgium at that time? Why did it take 11 days between the alert and the first chocolate recalls in Belgium? It's a long time. For example, the United Kingdom has moved much faster. Why did it take until April 8 to stop the plant? Since then, I have had to note that Ferrero has expanded the list of recalled products: on 14 April, on the one hand, and this announcement last Friday, according to which certain Ferrero products should not have been on the Belgian market and which, however, were. Ferrero recalled at that time that these products should not be consumed. All these questions show, I believe, a number of weaknesses in our health security system and, more specifically, on this issue. I hope to receive very clear and precise answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for coming to our committee. We have all been a little concerned about what we have read about Ferrero in recent weeks. I am sorry that you did not find the time in your agenda to discuss this with us earlier, because this is important to us all. We have been able to read a lot in the press. I look forward to seeing the timeline of your reconstruction. According to what I read in the press, the BFSA was aware very late of what happened in Aarlen. You know that I am always the first to be very critical of the BFSA's communication, but if it is true that the BFSA was informed so late, I would like to compliment the BFSA for its communication. The BFSA's reaction was very decisive. At first glance it seemed very strict that the factory had to close, but afterwards the BFSA turned out to be right. My compliments on that. However, we cannot deny that something has gone wrong somewhere. There have been products on the market that should not have been there, and it is up to us to see what went wrong. I am therefore very interested in what you will explain to us immediately. I ask three specific questions. Is our policy strict enough? Where should we improve it? These products were marketed for children, with a specific marketing focus on children. Then I wonder whether these products are being strictly controlled? As Mr Zanchetta said, it seems that self-control has not worked well enough. They've dropped something. Should we take action? Are there measures to identify a range of products and to monitor them more thoroughly? What went wrong in the past? How can we correct that? How will Ferrero be accompanied in the short term so that this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u7	Minister, I'm not going to go back into perspective, I'm going to go straight to the questions. When was this plant last controlled by AFSCA? What are the results of the AFSCA's Arlon survey of the origin of salmonella? If the source of the contamination is a raw material, has AFSCA contacted other suppliers using this material? When will the plant return to its production authorization? Will this plant be subject to increased vigilance on the part of AFSCA in the years to come? This case shows us once again how the self-control systems – on which our food security is heavily based – seem to be failing. So do you intend to review this principle? Are more stringent measures under consideration? If so, which ones? The NGO Foodwatch regrets the weakness of sanctions for failing companies because this type of case rarely goes to court. I can only join her. Do not dissuasive and exemplary sanctions be imposed? For example, should we not ban the distribution of dividends for large companies that have had a food security problem in the year? This would in any case make the major groups of the food industry think before hiding from the public authorities any problems of food security. In the end, it is always the workers, now put to a stop, who pay the consequences of the questionable decisions taken by their management.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u8	Minister, the other speakers have already talked about it in detail. The events at Ferrero seem to be well known at first sight at the factory, at least in the perception. Pretty fast is also the idea that the company has tried to keep some things hidden. It is therefore a good thing that we can have today's debate on the subject so that we can clarify matters more clearly. After all, food safety is extremely important. Therefore, Minister, I would have liked to know what impact the current crisis has had on public health in our country. Can you give us a chronology of events? Do you currently have any indications that any mistakes have been made by Ferrero or that certain items were deliberately not reported to the BFSA? Can the BFSA confirm Ferrero's findings in the meantime? The company claims the contamination has to do with the contamination of a filter of the anhydrous milk butter tank. The farm is also bound for milk production by a standard that ranges between 125 and 750 grams based on the risk assessment for raw materials. I understand that Ferrero would have decided unilaterally to apply stricter standards to a number of products than those imposed on the company. Is that right? Did you know about that? Finally, have problems been identified with the HACCP procedure at Ferrero? Is it true that salmonella infection has occurred at the less risky anhydrous milk butter, despite the high sampling and testing? A crisis is also an excellent time to evaluate certain points. It seems clear to me that this evaluation is also taking place here. The incident gives rise to criticism of the safety of our food, of the functioning of the autocontrol system, of the too reactionary attitude of the BFSA rather than focusing more on the preventive part and also on the fact that we would have more food crises in Belgium than elsewhere. The fact that the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor opened an investigation into the Ferrero incident, of course, feeds the rumours. Dear Herman, researcher at ILVO, stated in De Tijd that Ferrero's fate could also be affected by other food companies. No matter how well a factory is maintained, there is never a zero risk for such infections, says Dear Herman. They're all over our world, including food factories. One infected hair in a machine could be enough. The evil at Ferrero has now been done. So the key question is how both the company and the BFSA deal with this crisis, but above all what they learn from it. I would like to hear from you whether you can clarify Belgium's position on food safety. Are there actually more problems than elsewhere? If so, what does that have to do with? Did you know of any previous incidents identified by the BFSA at Ferrero? What conclusions do you draw from the incident in Aarlen for the operation of the BFSA? I understand Ferrero has already indicated that she will take advantage of this crisis to adopt a critical self-reflection of the plant's food safety policy. What does Ferrero do to achieve a safe restart? Can you clarify that a little bit? Finally, have you talked to the Ferrero Summit about the future of the company? To what extent are trade unions and employees informed and involved in dealing with this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u9	Minister, we all know what this is about. So I will not read out my introduction and I will immediately turn to the questions. Normally, the company itself has to report irregularities, but it didn't do this. Isn't the model of self-evaluation at its limits? Shouldn't we make a fundamental change there? Then how did the BFSA finally find out about these infections? How can the BFSA be further strengthened to prevent such cases in the future? What do you think of the transparency obligations and the increase in sanctions proposed by the NGO Food Watch? The BFSA is conducting an investigation. When are the first results expected? Is there any more clarity as to the exact cause of salmonella contamination? Mr De Caluwé cites a cause, but I have not yet read that the BFSA has a real report. On Friday 22 April a new warning came from the BFSA. There would be more contaminated children's products. Is there any more clarity on this? Is there any more clarity as to how many sick people can be linked to the salmonella contamination of the Ferrero factory? What measures should the company take to prevent such infections in the future? Have you had any conversations about that? Staff shall be paid until 8 May. In the meantime, is there any more certainty as to what will happen if the plant cannot be reopened on 8 May? It is worth having an extensive exchange of views on all aspects of this food crisis, both food safety and the economy and social affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u10	Madam President, Minister, food security is something to which we are particularly committed because it can affect all of us. It's a fundamental notion. I'm not going to tell you the story again. It has already been extensively exposed. I just wanted to ask you what is the role of AFSCA, which is essential in any food or health crisis, in this Ferrero health crisis? How do you explain the deadlines in terms of information and responsiveness of the company in particular? How can this lack of communication and responsiveness of the company be explained? In this regard, will new measures be put in place to improve communication within the food industry? Do you now have the results of the analyses conducted by AFSCA? If so, what do they reveal? What will be the fate of the workers at the Ferrero plant in Arlon after May 8? What about the prospects for this company and its workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u11	Mr Minister, I will not go back to the context of the matter before us, as it has been referred back to by my colleagues. However, I would like to thank you for your presence today to discuss this matter, which has given rise to a particularly important emotion among the population, an understandable emotion for several reasons that I wanted to recall. First, the products in question were mainly intended for young or even very young children. These products were very present in the department when they had to be recalled, and they had already been bought in part by many parents wanting to please their children in preparation for Easter. In addition, infections have been reported in eight European countries as well as in the United Kingdom. Secondly, the information provided to the consumer was absolutely unclear: the presence of salmonella would have already been detected last December and, a few months later, product recalls covered certain consignments. Thus, the Lambda consumer and some distributors did not finally know which Ferrero products were affected by these cases of salmonella. Third, during Easter leave, products that were supposed to have been withdrawn from the sale on April 8 could still be found in some large-scale shelves, regardless of the lot, date of production or expiry date. Another important factor is the fact that the plant in question employs nearly 725 workers, a figure which is not negligible. What is the current situation at the Ferrero plant in Arlon? What about the prospects for reopening? Under what conditions and under what controls could this take place? To what extent can a judicial investigation have an impact on an ongoing health investigation? What are the penalties, and on what basis? From when do you make the difficult decision to close and the easier decision to reopen a factory? Are there any criteria for determining how often producers are monitored according to the public concerned? Are products intended for children subject to specific control measures? To what extent are children's places covered by specific measures? I am thinking not only of school canteens but also of leisure activities and internship places during school holidays and especially at Easter. What about hospitals too? It is known that AFSCA had established a procedure for care units, particularly with respect to the conservation and warming of meals. Has this procedure been widely disseminated and monitored on a regular basis? Finally, what about rest homes, day centres and deliveries of meals at home? In other words, I am thinking of all places where people are not able to appreciate the quality and origin of the meals served to them. My second question concerns the health consequences of these infections, but also the preventive measures that can be taken to prevent them. Can you inform us about the current status of salmonellosis infections in our country? Can you tell us the number of children who have been hospitalized and the number of children who have since left the hospital? Can you inform us of any ongoing investigations into other possible suspicious cases? Which agencies have conducted or are still conducting these investigations? How did they proceed? For example, there is a question of in-depth analysis of patient stool samples. Can you tell us how these patients were identified as potentially infected? Are you able to state that there is an unequivocal link between the Ferrero plant and the detected cases? How can we scientifically establish a link between a producer and an infection? More broadly, how does the health alert work at the international level in general and how did it work in this specific case of Ferrero? Is it correct that the alert came from the United Kingdom? Here too, how can we explain that it took almost ten days between this alert and the recall of products? Finally, how is our medical network – I am thinking mainly of general practitioners – informed today of such an alert to the risk of food contamination, but also of how to react to it and therefore inform the health authorities about suspicious cases among patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u12	Minister, between December 15 and early April, contaminated eggs were sold and eaten. This has led to sick and hospitalized children and people. I'm thinking that there's still something that's obvious: it's not normal. On December 15, Ferrero knows there's salmonella contamination. On April 5, the first products were withdrawn and on April 8, the plant was closed and all products were withdrawn from the market. There's something unusual about that. Either it is the Ferrero plant that has not followed the necessary procedures and this is perhaps part of the explanation and the legal procedure under way, or our system of consumer protection and food safety is not optimal or even failing, or both. Minister, would we be able to receive an exact time line regarding the events? When were you informed? How, for example, is it finally via England that the information will reach us about a contamination problem at Ferrero? How come our system didn't detect it first? It was only after the news in the newspapers that Ferrero released the salmonella in the eggs. What obligations do companies have to share this information with AFSCA? Did Ferrero do everything he needed or not? As far as self-control is concerned, is this system still sufficient today? Should each contamination be reported to the AFSCA? Will you change the system and ensure that there are more external controls carried out by the authorities? Are you going to make sure that the AFSCA receives more resources? However, I would like to quote the 2019 report. In 2019, the European Dome of Test Purchase wrote in a report that the BFSA inspectors already indicated in 2016 that they had reached their limits. In 2017, their budgets were reduced again. The report said that there is laxity at many levels. Is there a link between what is in this report and what is happening here today? Four months between contamination and product removal and plant closure. Also, in the last year, we saw that the AFSCA allocation was further reduced by €5 million. I have a few more specific questions. Why does AFSCA decide to close the plant in this particular case? It seems to me that this is still a rather drastic decision. The official reason is that insufficient information has been provided. Can you be more specific at this level? Are there any suspicions of fraud? What errors did Ferrero possibly make? A judicial investigation is still under way. Is the AFSCA involved in this judicial investigation, yes or no? Did the AFSCA itself file a complaint against Ferrero? In general, what are the reasons for stopping production, also to understand whether this measure is exceptional or not? It is still a factory with more than 600 workers, which is shut down for more than a month. This measure seems quite drastic to me. What are the prospects for reopening the plant? Today, does Ferrero collaborate? Did she give the information that would be defective? Do you have any specific prospects for reopening this plant? Has a fine been given or will it be given to Ferrero? Can you explain to us the state of the investigation made by the AFSCA in relation to this specific scandal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the questions you have asked on this important issue. I will try to provide them with the most clear and detailed answers possible. First of all, in the week of 25 March to 1 April 2022, various messages were exchanged on the European platform "Rapid Alert System for Feed and Food (RASFF) concerning contamination in England, Ireland, Germany, France, Sweden and the Netherlands. The possible sources of this contamination were then Ferrero brand chocolate products made in several countries. On 31 March, AFSCA was for the first time informed via RASFF that cases of diseases identified in different Member States could be linked to the Ferrero plant in Arlon based on surveys of patients in the United Kingdom. AFSCA immediately opened an investigation on 1 April and sent on-site monitors on the same day. The investigation established that contamination had occurred on 15 December 2021 on a production line, but Ferrero considered that the situation was under control in Belgium because the lots concerned were blocked in the plant and therefore there were no contaminated products on the Belgian market. At that time, there was no basis for launching a recall in Belgium. On Saturday 21 April, in the evening, the AFSCA was informed by Ireland and the United Kingdom that they were going to organize a recall in collaboration with Ferrero. This information at AFSCA was not made by Ferrero. In the absence of new information in Belgium, therefore, the AFSCA did not have to make a recall in Belgium. In the days that followed, several meetings were held between AFSCA and Ferrero to obtain further clarification on the context and origin of the contamination. It proved particularly complicated to obtain from Ferrero a clear view of the situation and to have all the information available despite repeated meetings and contacts. During these repeated contacts, it was established that on 4 April, the link between sick people and Ferrero products from the Arlon plant was confirmed by the whole genome sequence technique. This is a modern technique that allows, on the basis of DNA, to compare the pathogens found in sick people and those found in the sample of the food and to decide whether there is a link between the two. In this context, given Ferrero's fuzzy information, the Agency decided to publish itself, on Monday 4 April, its own warning, followed on 5 April by a return from Ferrero with batch numbers. Batch numbers are based on the risk period from October 15, 2021 to January 10, 2022. The production period concerned was determined very broadly in order to avoid, on the basis of the information available at the time, that contaminated products could still be consumed. On 8 April, the Agency received additional information from Ferrero, namely two additional contaminations after 10 January which had not yet been reported. This prompted the Agency to take action. The previous reminder was not enough to protect consumers. The Agency then itself recalled all Kinder products from the Arlon plant – regardless of the date of production – and also withdrew the company's authorisation. In other words, the Agency itself closed the business. The specific products and packagings concerned by the recall have been published on the Agency's website. This includes Kinder Surprise, Kinder Mini Eggs, Kinder Surprise Maxi and Schokobons. Administrative sanctions, linked to the shortcomings in Ferrero's procedures, will follow. In the meantime, the case is also in the hands of the public prosecutor, who initiated an investigation on his own initiative. As a result, it is not possible for both the BFSA and myself to communicate on certain aspects of the file. Communication on the incident with the other Member States and the European Commission as regards food safety is carried out as usual through the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF) system. The International Food Safety Authorities Network (INFOSAN) system is used for communication with third countries. The contamination of Ferrero products was caused by monophasic Salmonella typhimurium. Salmonella typhimurium and its monophasic variant are types that, in addition to Salmonella enteritidis, most often cause diseases in humans, with symptoms such as diarrhoea, fever and abdominal pain. Sometimes serious complications may occur, such as dehydration symptoms and septicaemia. As with other food pathogens, the weaker people, such as the elderly, young children, pregnant women and persons with a weakened immune system, are more sensitive to salmonella infections, with potentially more serious consequences. Information on the cases of the disease is provided to the BFSA by the National Reference Centre Salmonella and the Department of Epidemiology of Sciensano. This dossier concerns young children, and about half of the well-known cases in Europe had to be hospitalised. The medical costs stories on Ferrero is a matter for the Justice Department and therefore falls outside my jurisdiction. Currently, different clusters have been identified based on genetic analyses of the human strains of the monophasic Salmonella typhimurium 2. In Belgium, Salmonella was identified by the National Reference Centre within the first clusters 29 cases and within the second cluster 23 cases. Of the first cluster, six cases and of the second cluster five cases were analysed by Sciensano even more in-depth genetically using the whole genome sequencing technique to ensure 100 % that they are the same type of disease as in the other countries concerned. Through WGS technology, the link was also established between the sick persons and the samples from Ferrero in Aarlen. Moreover, the surveys of the sick also confirm this link to the first cluster. The patients claim to have consumed products of the Children's Range. The surveys for the second cluster are currently carried out by the competent services of the communities. In other countries, 124 cases were registered on 8 April. The incident shall be monitored by EFSA, ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the European Commission and the countries concerned. It was also described in a document, a rapid outbreak assessment, published on the EFSA and ECDC website on 12 April 2022. This document will be updated if new information is available. In Ireland and the United Kingdom, a recall of the Kinder Surprise product was organised two days earlier than in Belgium, on 2 April. This is explained by the fact that at that time these countries had already identified a link between the disease cases and the results of the patient surveys were already available. It showed that almost all the sick had consumed Kinder Surprise. In addition, the United Kingdom indicates that all products Kinder Surprise are produced on the UK markets at Ferrero Aarlen. The recall of the United Kingdom and Ireland was extended to other products from the Children's Range only a few days later. European legislation obliges operators in the food chain to ensure that they market compliant products in the context of their self-checking. They have to apply a high hygiene standard, establish and implement procedures according to HACCP principles, take samples themselves to analyse and that's more. Companies can have their auto-control system validated through audits by an external certification body, approved by the BFSA. Ferrero has a validated autocontrol system and was also certified for several private load books.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u14	The Agency shall conduct inspections by means of harmonised checklists available on its website. It thus checks compliance with hygiene, infrastructure and installation rules, as well as the development of the self-checking system, the application of mandatory notification and the traceability system. For a company such as Ferrero, whose self-checking system is validated, the inspection frequency is once every four years. For companies that do not have a validated self-checking system, the frequency is higher. The last hygiene inspection in Arlon was conducted on June 12, 2017. No specific non-compliance was detected during the annual validation audits of self-control systems and inspections. Since January 1, 2017, 24 samples have been collected in Arlon for analysis of chemical and microbiological parameters - each time with favourable results. Where an undertaking finds non-compliance via its self-monitoring, such as salmonella contamination in this case, this non-compliance should not be notified to the Agency if no product related to the contamination has been placed on the market. The company must itself carry out the risk assessment and make every effort to remedy this contamination. If it is suspected that potentially contaminated products have been placed on the market or have already reached consumers, a notification must then be sent to the Agency in accordance with the procedures laid down for this purpose, which can be consulted on its website and are well known to companies. Given the heterogeneous distribution of salmonella in a food and the generally low prevalence concentration, the probability of detecting a non-compliant lot is low. Microbiological analysis will only provide an audit of hygiene and HACCP procedures. Unfortunately, there is no zero risk to the consumer, but of course it must be kept to a minimum. It is therefore not on the agenda to extend the Agency's existing analytical programme to salmonella. In developing the control program, the Agency takes a risk-based approach and takes into account a range of factors, such as prevalence, severity, but also previous incidents, consumption patterns. The analysis by enterprises in the context of self-control is undoubtedly the best method of detection, since it allows many samples to be taken at critical points in the production process, and to examine them in a very focused and continuous manner. From this point of view, the Agency's extension of sampling is less appropriate, as in any case a limited number of samples will be taken, which is less effective in terms of microbiology. The criticisms of laxity, irregularities and shortcomings in the Agency's reporting are totally unjustified here. The Agency responded very quickly and opened an investigation as soon as it received the notification via the RASFF system. I told you earlier. It has always put the interests of consumers first, and has taken the correct and appropriate measures at all times on the basis of the information available to it at that time. When it is found that risky, non-compliant products have entered the market, the company in question has a duty to organise a recall itself. If the company does not or does not act quickly enough, as in the case of Ferrero, the BFSA takes control of the communication to the consumers themselves, in order to inform and protect them as well as possible. It is the company's duty to communicate the products and lottery numbers to the customers themselves, so that the communication cascade can take place throughout the whole chain, i.e. between all customers until final with the consumer. Ferrero has not communicated sufficiently, late and unclear in this case, both to customers and to consumers. As a result, there was a great deal of uncertainty and great concern for the general public. Since Ferrero has been silent for a long time, the hotline for consumers at the BFSA received more than a thousand questions and complaints. The most common are the following: I bought a kid product. Can I still consume this? Or is it part of the recall? How can I get a refund from the purchased children's products? Are there any other products of the Ferrero brand involved in the recall, for example Nutella? Are Children's products purchased abroad also involved in the recall? I suspect I've become ill after consumption of a child product or another product of Ferrero. What do you want me to do? The questions about the consequences for workers by closing down the factory and retrieving the medical costs of the patient on Ferrero are not within my competence. For questions concerning the reimbursement of products, please refer to Secretary of State De Bleeker, who is responsible for consumer affairs. Regarding the determined savings in all federal administrations, including in this case with the BFSA, I confirm that they have had no impact on the control policy of the BFSA. In any event, the security of the food chain remains my first priority. Finally, in order to conclude and in relation to the information concerning staff, I can confirm that it is planned to pay the remuneration until 8 May. The AFSCA works actively and is obviously ready to allow the resumption of work in this company, obviously after having obtained the total guarantee that in terms of hygiene and complete cleaning of the company, everything will be carried out perfectly by specialized companies elsewhere and with a programme of intensive checks that will be implemented. It is hoped, but I cannot commit to this, that we could restart before 8 May, so that there are no difficulties for the staff. I cannot commit to this date, but that is what we all hope for. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just given you all the information I have on this matter. Of course, I'm still at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive explanation. It was very interesting to get that timeline again. I'm amazed at the attitude of that company. That's hallucinating. It's a food-producing company. Does it realize what responsibility it has? At first, the company does not report that there has been an infection in December. Later on, it doesn't say that there was any infection in January as well. In short, things were really swept under the mat. I have the distinct impression that this whole genome sequencing probably made sure that the company eventually could not do anything other than open up. I pay tribute to science and technology. It's good that this exists. Hopefully all food-producing companies are well aware that such things can be traced. Regarding the reports by the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed, a link was established with Ferrerochocolade on 25 March. At that time the link was not made with the Belgian factory. Couldn't we have been a little more proactive there? Shouldn't we have gone to our own Ferrero factory to see if there was a problem? This story is another disgrace to our food safety and reputation. We've had fipronil, now salmonella, before there have been food scandals. Both on the fipronil issue and on salmonella contamination, the link with Belgium is always discovered abroad. I'm sorry to hear that. It would be much better if we got in there faster. What evaluation has happened? What lessons have we learned? I kind of missed that in your story. Is that auto-control system sufficiently secure? Can't we do more there? There is no zero risk. Contaminations can happen. However, concealing things when something clearly goes wrong is unacceptable. Hopefully everything will be done to prevent that in the future. You're talking about reopening the production site. Hopefully that can happen soon, for the workers. You also mentioned cleaning and production conditions. Of course they must be in order, but I believe that there is also a mentality problem with some executives. I really hope that this will be dealt with before restarting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. It was indeed interesting to hear the whole timeline and to get it all together. I have to join my colleague: I am also a little hungry. It is hallucinating, however, that a company can hide for months from admitting that it has nothing to do with food safety and public health. Is the auto-checking even conclusive? Shouldn't it be reviewed? Wouldn't it be better for the BFSA to have a flashing light when problems arise at the auto-checking? That is not the case now. Now the BFSA doesn't have to do that. It didn't, with all the consequences. I would like to hear from you whether you, as the competent minister, will instruct the BFSA to look at that again, and possibly make changes to the procedure, so that such situations can no longer be prevented. This situation is, after all, another blame on us which we could have avoided if the procedures had been final.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u17	Madam President, Minister, it must be noted that there are serious shortcomings on the part of the company. However, your answers bring new questions about elements that remain nebulous. You have indeed begun your history by referring to March 25th. But if I am not mistaken, on 23 March the health authorities made the link between the cases of salmonellosis and Ferrero products. We can therefore question the information and alert system at European level. Moreover, on 31 March, Arlon's company was clearly identified. A review of the AFSCA was conducted on April 1. What is the exact scope of the controls that were carried out on that date? I cannot imagine that there has not been a verification of all the data relating to the self-checks carried out by the company. During this check, were all the results of the self-checks well analysed? Have they been made available? What about what happened later until this famous date of April 8th? One can question the type of controls that have been carried out in the meantime by the AFSCA. I come to another point, minister. There is also mandatory notification of laboratories. You didn't mention it. While the presence of salmonella has clearly been identified on several occasions, why has there not been a notification of the laboratories that conducted the analyses and showed positive salmonella cultures? There is clearly also a shadow zone in this area. With respect to the AFSCA control plan for this company, you said that it was self-checking and that the AFSCA controls it every four years. The last time was in June 2017. We've been almost five years since the last check. You say that there have been 24 levies since January 2017. But when exactly were these samples made and at what frequency? The real question is whether or not this company's control plan has been properly and adequately deployed. However, the elements you have given raise questions. Finally, you did not answer a question about something that I think is important. According to several sources, Ferrero products are still on the market. This is an issue that you should really look at. As I said, some of the points in this file are still nebulous. I will therefore certainly come back to that, hoping that we can have further and precise answers on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u18	Minister, thank you for recalling the chronology of this incident. Of course, we will be paying attention to the results of this survey, because it is desirable to prevent this type of incident - even if it is relatively uncommon, fortunately - from happening again, because it is mainly children who are involved, sometimes with serious consequences such as hospitalization. As far as your answers are concerned, it is true that other measures are undoubtedly desirable, particularly as regards the fact that the plant was able to hide the incident for so many weeks. For me, it remains a question, but it is not within your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your information. I stand by my compliments on the approach and communication of the BFSA. I think the agency has communicated well and decisively. There were over 1,000 questions, which means it has reached a lot of people. For me, this shows that the BFSA has learned lessons in communication. It remains staggering, even though the public prosecutor is conducting an investigation, that Ferrero did suddenly come up with information on infections after 10 January on 8 April, while the company had not mentioned them before. You say, Minister, that it is up to the company itself to assess the risks. I wonder, however, whether there should be an emergency braking procedure that takes over when companies prove that they cannot assess these risks. I think we have come to that tilting moment and Ferrero must make it clear that the company has not followed the rules and is therefore placed under curatel for a certain period of time. I have the same remark as Mr Fonck who pointed out that checks normally take place every four years. The last time was on June 12, 2017, so there should have been a check in June last year. Is there any reason why it was postponed? I assume that also during the Ferrero lockdowns the company was left open because it belongs to the food sector, so I do not know if there is a reason to check late. Maybe it's too early to learn lessons, but I'm left with the question of whether that self-control should be dealt with differently if children are the target audience. I hope the BFSA continues to react decisively. We don't negotiate food safety. I hope for the workers that the factory will be able to open soon, but Ferrero will have to show that it can bear that responsibility. We don't negotiate about food safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. Like my colleagues, I congratulate the strong action of the AFSCA, which recalled all the products from the factory. There was indeed no alternative to the artistic blurring left by management. June 2017, it's actually a long time. Should not checks be carried out in proportion to the number of people affected by the plant's production? Every two years we control restaurants that feed fifty people and we control a factory that affects millions of children every four years. Is that logical? I am still hungry about the evaluation of the self-control system and I would like to share it with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I think it is about the biggest and at the same time happy but the first crisis of this magnitude in the Ferrero factory in Aarlen. Fortunately, hygiene or sanitary problems do not occur frequently, but that does not condone clumsy communication from the company. I hope that the company will learn from this, because good communication, especially on food safety, is crucial. I also think it would have been better for the company's image if the communication had been something else. In addition, there has also been a perception problem in relation to the BFSA, which was only aware of salmonella contamination after the UK food authorities, despite the fact that the BFSA is the control body in the country in which the problem occurred. If I understood correctly, this was partly because the BFSA felt that it did not have all the data at its disposal. Ferrero is unlucky that it is facing salmonella contamination. I do not think this is due to a neglect of hygiene standards. On the contrary, that plant is bound by strict legal obligations for milk and milk production. The incident does give rise to doubts about food safety in our country, about the malfunctioning of the autocontrol system, the over-reactionary attitude of the BFSA and the like. Because of this crisis and also because of other food crises, we sometimes get the impression that we have more food crises in Belgium than elsewhere. However, as some Members have said, despite all the hygiene and sanitary measures in force, salmonella contamination cannot be avoided entirely. I therefore believe that this should not give rise to any kind of doomsday scenario or, above all, to negative statements which would make people unnecessarily worried about supposedly reduced food safety. The opposite is true, because the standards are becoming increasingly strict, the hygiene standards for the staff are being fully respected in food companies, the controls are being stepped up, and also the detection techniques in this case have helped to improve science. All these elements may lead to more contamination on the surface. Especially in our country, where these systems work well, we paradoxically get the aura that there are more food crises here than elsewhere. That's what I wanted to highlight and look at from that point of view. Thank you in any case for the very comprehensive explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I think there really is a problem with that company. A company that produces food and sells both on our local market and abroad, and that is silent, knowing that something is going on, I think, is committing a very serious crime. I don't think this is possible. Moreover, it is also bad for the image of our country. The fact that it just happened at the 'Belgian chocolates', one of our prestige products, is very bad for our economy. I understand that it is not your responsibility and that there is nothing you can do about it, but whether people can get back to work on 8 May or be paid for a few more weeks, we will have to keep our fingers crossed. I don't have a good eye for that. In substance, I shall come back to my question: the model of self-evaluation is, in our view, colliding with its limits. I give the BFSA a compliment on what it has done well in this crisis, but there is a need to think carefully about whether the model of self-evaluation is adequate. Here it is again proven that the total is not satisfactory: if a company wants to hide something, then it can. That's not good. Fortunately, it does not happen very often, as Mr De Caluwe says, but it is not good, and we must do something about it by the public authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u23	Minister, first of all, thank you for the precise answers you have given us. I would like, as other colleagues have done, to stress the responsiveness and effectiveness of the AFSCA and your department in this matter. Of course, the prosecutor's office has opened an investigation. We do not have to comment on it, but we will of course be attentive to the conclusions of this procedure. I'm sure you'll be just as sure. I would therefore like to make it clear that we support your commitment to the food security of the entire population. But perhaps the type of communication to be used in the food industry should be further clarified. Perhaps there are procedures to be put in place in terms of communication, with specific guidelines on how the food industry should communicate in case of problems or mere suspicion of problems, in order to anticipate as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u24	Minister, thank you for your extremely detailed answers. Like my colleagues, I remain extremely shocked by the disdainful and dangerous attitude of the Ferrero plant. But I must also note the lack of health checks, in general, despite, as I must point out, the proactive work of the AFSCA in this matter. She did what she was able to do, despite the lack of information at her disposal and the lack of cooperation from Ferrero. However, I understand that the Ferrero plant estimated on 1 April that, despite the contamination that occurred on 15 December last, the situation was under control because, say, the lots, as you explained to us, had been blocked at the plant, so there was no basis for a recall. Shouldn't it have been necessary, Minister, at that time, to demand from the plant that it demonstrate that these lots had actually been blocked at the plant or even destroyed? Why, in the end, were we content with the simple words of Ferrero, who was able to reassure the AFSCA on this issue? All the more so as we have seen: the rest of history shows us that the situation was unfortunately not under control since the lots recalled, as you said, were on the basis of the production period from 15 October last to 10 January. This period, therefore, included the December period when the cases of salmonella detected could be confirmed on 1 April last. Another point concerns me. You say that, during the repeated meetings and contacts between AFSCA and Ferrero, it has always been difficult to obtain from Ferrero all the necessary information. In your opinion, does this lack of cooperation result from shortcomings in our current law that could be corrected in order to force a plant like Ferrero to cooperate as it should with the AFSCA in the future, under penalty of possible sanctions? Another point is that you tell us that for a company like Ferrero, the frequency of inspection is about once every four years. For example, the last review was in June 2017. Like my colleagues, I find that this is very little especially for products which, as has been said, are made in very large quantities and are intended for young children. What is your opinion about possible reform on this specific point? Are you also willing to acknowledge that the rate of assessment today does not work especially when a factory feels, as here, that it is not accountable to our authorities? Finally, you tell us that the workers will be compensated until 8 May. This reassures me, but you are also telling us that you cannot commit to the factory being able to reopen by 8 May. I can quite understand that, but could you not, therefore, make a commitment that if the plant were not to be reopened in good sanitary conditions, those workers would be compensated as long as the plant had to remain closed? I think that would really be a very important signal that you could give them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u25	Minister, Ferrero represents a billion and a half profits in 2021. He's a giant in the food industry. I think it's naive to think it's going to go by leaving control entirely in their hands. You have to imagine how much pressure there had to be to hide this contamination before Easter eggs were produced, etc. A judicial investigation is under way. But in spite of everything, it seems to me that there are few questions on your part. Did our system work well? Yes, the AFSCA responded well as soon as it was notified. But with regard to exceeding the four-month deadline and the fact that action could have been taken as early as 15 December to avoid the contamination that followed, it seems to me that you have little to do with the current food security system. At this level, I'm disappointed. Several elements can be improved. First, Ferrero undergoes an inspection only every four years and the last date of June 2017! There is a form of injustice between large companies that are monitored once every four years and small restorers that receive much more regular controls. Secondly, it also seems to me that there is a need for more external controls. Thirdly, you say that salmonella contamination must not be notified! Don't you think this system needs to be reviewed? As soon as there is contamination, it should be notified so that AFSCA is kept informed. This is the minimum lesson to be learned. Fourthly, you say that there is no connection with the savings made on the AFSCA and the current case. Every year, however, savings are made. It's not enough to say it, minister. I would have liked to hear the demonstration. In the report which I have read to you, it is clear that there is too much laxity. I don't know what you think of this report. I will conclude that I am disappointed with the little teaching you learn from this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u26	Madam President, I would like to begin by apologizing to Mrs Leen Dierick. She had tabled the first question on this subject but unfortunately could not be here today because of other obligations. Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. It is important that you acknowledge that Ferrero has missed many opportunities in terms of timely and clear communication to the population, which has only increased concerns about products such as Kinder Surprise. The BFSA has indeed done a good job there with its own communication lines to the consumer. That deserves all the praise. A number of elements continue to raise questions with us. Ferrero was already aware of salmonella infection in December and did not inform the BFSA until 31 March. There were several infections in European countries and there was the detection at the factory in Aarlen. The report then came after a singnaal from the United Kingdom. This raises questions for us about the absence of a notification to companies for salmonella contamination at the BFSA, at least as long as there is no danger to the consumer. The question is, of course, how this wording should be interpreted as long as there is no danger to the consumer. The facts today show that there was indeed a risk, especially for children, which should make the alarm bells ring extra loud, and that there has been late intervention. Could a previous notification of the infection to the BFSA have made it possible to intervene more quickly? These are, of course, ex post assumptions, but we need to think about the procedure and the lessons that we can draw from this. A reporting obligation with the BFSA could also put that authority in a faster position to evaluate together whether there is a risk to the consumer. The difference in timing between the UK's actions, where the recall action was launched on 2 April, and Belgium, which was only mentioned on 4 or 5 April, remains unclear. Does this have anything to do with the weekend? There is a need to look again at whether there has been a difference in trade between the United Kingdom and Belgium. These are problems that need to be evaluated and we must be obliged to learn from them in the interests of public health and food safety. Milcobel just happened to be on the clock this week. This company acted consistently in establishing an infection, in this case with the listeria bacteria, and, as a precautionary measure, stopped production itself and took the necessary measures together with the BFSA. There were no contaminated products on the market due to Milcobel's fast and accurate way of working. This example shows that it can also work in a good way, that there can be good cooperation with the BFSA, contrary to what happened at Ferrero, where social responsibility towards consumers and food safety has clearly failed. CD&V therefore hopes that due attention will be paid to the lessons to be drawn and that measures will be taken to avoid such situations in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u27	Madam President, I know that it is not customary to intervene after Members' replies, but I will still answer some technical questions, in order to dispel possible misunderstandings. Mrs Fonck, the French press spoke of 23 April, but that is a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u28	Mars!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u29	Mars, I'm sorry! But it's March 25th. The French press therefore made a mistake. The date of the 23rd does not exist in our documents. So there was obviously a misunderstanding. With regard to laboratories, you are right to recall that they are required to notify. However, in this case, it is an internal laboratory at the Ferrero plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u31	No, no, the lab didn't notify.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u32	No, but from April 1st...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u33	Yeah, but he didn't notify.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u34	Okay, but when the AFSCA goes on site, all laboratory products have to come out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u35	Of course. That is why this case has a criminal component. You'll have noticed. Deficiencies have been found in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u36	Mr Minister, if I may, you are telling us that, as a first step, certain products are concerned. Then, on April 8, the existence of positive salmonella cultures affecting other products since January is recognized. The first AFSCA check took place on April 1. All internal laboratory data should have been reviewed. Have they been hidden or verified? That's what I'm wondering about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u37	It is also where we reach the judicial and administrative limits, Member. You know that very well. I can't answer that question. The investigation is likely to answer this question. I just wanted to make it clear that the lab is an internal laboratory in Ferrero. I think that's an additional element in the file. Mrs Rohonyi, you say that we cannot be content with Ferrero's simple words. I can assure you that the AFSCA, from the first day, put the pressure on Ferrero, really stopped, harassed. In the end, you saw that they had to take care of things themselves. I understand the question, but I can assure you that the AFSCA took things really very seriously and did not believe on word the information that was given. In relation to the self-control system, Mr. Van den Bergh is right to recall that this system works every day. Let's take Milcobel's case today, it's a self-control system that works well. The system of self-control is a European system, implemented in Belgium. It is not a system unique to our country. Of course, we can evaluate it. In any case, I propose that we do this analysis after a debriefing that will take place after this case. You know that, for the moment, we are at the heart of this issue. The plant has not yet resumed its activities. I am open to an assessment, of course, of the system of self-control, and also of the crisis communication of large companies. Because here, there's really a problem with crisis communication. It seems obvious to me that once this post-Ferrero debriefing is done, we will then have a debate. I just want to add that "you don't have to throw the baby away with the bath water." Milcobel shows that it works too. It's not all black or white. These were the elements I wanted to add without reopening the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic761x.u38	Minister, thank you. I suspect that we will still be discussing the lessons to be learned from this scandal and the system of self-control in Belgium.
