ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u1	Mr President, I note that all the questions were thrown back into a pile, but I am trying to make a summary of them. Minister, the long-awaited energy agreement was drawn up on 14 March 2022. However, those who look at this closely note that it consists of a collection of very limited and short-term measures. By moving from energy agreement to energy agreement and from energy deal to energy deal, the government will ultimately not achieve structural and sustainable solutions to the energy crisis. However, that is what the citizen needs at the moment. It is a crisis which, unlike the half-hearted measures taken by this government, will not quickly disappear. The Prime Minister called the energy agreement a painkiller. That is a term that actually fits well with this collection of measures. Everyone knows that when one takes a painkiller, for example for headaches, that headache after working out that painkiller is not necessarily gone. That will probably also be the case for this energy agreement. When the period during which this agreement has been drawn up comes to an end, the energy problems will still exist. There will be no fundamental solution to this problem. I have some questions about that. I shall begin with my question on excise duties on these fuels and prices at the service stations. Mobility organisation Touring launched a national petition for the urgent reintroduction of the so-called reverse cliquet system. This means that the federal government reduces excise duties on petrol and diesel in the event of substantial price increases. Have you already consulted with this mobility organisation? Today we see that excise duties on diesel and petrol at the pump are reduced by just EUR 17,5 cents. That 17 cents, that's peanuts. The prices at the pump are even rising again today to the level before the excise duty reduction. Diesel will again be more expensive tomorrow, even to the extent that the profits of the excise duty reduction will be completely offset. There will be nothing left for the public to see. This is demonstrated by data from the FPS Economy. The maximum price for diesel will increase tomorrow by 17.4 euro cents per litre to a price of 2.08 euros per litre. That's 0.1 cents difference. That's how we end up again where we started. There is no structural and sustainable solution to the problem of pump prices. Mr Minister, my question is an open question. What measures will you take to keep prices at the pump structurally affordable? Now I come to my question about the transport sector and professional diesel. The transport federations call on their members to continue to charge high diesel prices to their customers, even though there is a limited reduction in excise duty today. This reduction in excise duty is not enough to compensate for the higher costs. The transport sector has already seen costs rise by 5% this year, and this is only about calculations until 1 February. Meanwhile, it is March, so the costs will have increased, because the diesel price has only increased since then. The European minimum rates of excise duty for heavy goods vehicles in Belgium allow a reduction in excise duty of barely 4 euro cents per litre. For vehicles of less than 7.5 tonnes the clearance is limited to a maximum of 27 euro cents per litre of diesel. Fuel accounts for more than a fifth of the total cost of a truck. Other costs have, of course, also increased, partly due to wage indexation, and new vehicles are also being purchased. Mr Minister, have you already consulted the transport federations? Do you agree that the current reduction of EUR 17.5 cents of excise duty is not sufficient to reduce the higher costs for the transport sector? If you do not agree with that statement, what are your arguments? Since 2004 there has been a tax advantage in Belgium for diesel used in the transport sector, the professional diesel. Are you aware that this tax advantage is important for the competitiveness of our transport companies? In other words, should this budgetary measure not be reviewed? As a reminder, in October, you and the government decided to reduce the benefits of professional diesel. What will you do to support the profitability and competitiveness of our transport sector and ultimately to avoid passing on to the final consumer? Then I come to the part about the VAT reductions in the energy agreement. VAT on electricity and gas will be reduced to 6% until the end of September. For the users of fuel oil there will be a cheque of 200 euros. The broad social tariff is also extended until the end of September. The temporary VAT reduction starts on 1 April, but energy suppliers argue that for technical reasons they are not yet able to implement it in the advance invoices of April. That is also what FEBEG, the Federation of Energy Companies, says. When will the citizen see and feel the VAT reduction in the advance invoice? Analysis of VAT reforms indicates that temporary VAT reductions lead to higher prices in the long term. In fact, a VAT reduction is only reduced in terms of VAT, while the subsequent VAT increase is more widely passed on to the consumer, which ultimately leads to a permanent price increase. For example, in 2014, VAT on electricity was temporarily reduced from 21 % to 6 %. Fiscal experts point out that this temporary VAT reduction has ultimately led to a permanent increase in the price of electricity. How can we avoid that the temporary VAT reduction that you are now proposing will lead to a permanent increase in gas and electricity prices? Is a permanent VAT reduction not preferable, as gas and electricity are basic needs? Is a permanent VAT reduction on electricity and gas finally off the table? We have not heard any more about this. Are you in favour of a temporary or permanent reduction in VAT on electricity and gas? There is still no agreement on the announced smart VAT reduction, on which you were widely quoted in the press. What's the status of that smart VAT cut? When should there be an agreement on this? What's that gonna mean? When will this smart VAT reduction enter into force? The Belgian Federation of Fuel Dealers BRAFCO reports that the practical arrangements for granting the premium of EUR 200 for fuel oil and propane users have not yet been laid down. How will the one-off 200 euro heating cheque be awarded? Those who do not heat with natural gas or fuel oil do not seem to receive any compensation. Will a concession also be provided for those who, for example, heat with wood pellets or coal? Would it not have been better to allocate a fixed amount per inhabitant instead of just giving people who use a particular type of heating an advantage? After all, a number of citizens are falling out of the boat today. Minister, I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u2	Minister, the government promised a bazooka to fight the increase in energy prices, and we end up with a water gun! On March 14, the government announced a reduction in fuel prices, and it took only five days to realize that the decrease was falling. You have dropped the price at the pump by 0.175 euro, but tomorrow, on 24 March, this decrease will have been totally eaten. Indeed, we were at 2,079 euros and tomorrow we will be at 2,078 euros. There's only one tenth of a hundred difference left. In November 2021, after we asked for it for weeks, you announced that you would apply the inverted click when the price of fuel would exceed 1.70 or 1.75 euro, depending on the versions. This is already huge, because if we look at the average for the years 2015 to 2020, the price at the pump was around €1.40 per litre. Finally, it took, between your announcement and the government's decision, five months... for nothing because the increase caught up with the decline in five days. In the meantime, you announced in the press that the inverted ratchet was no longer sufficient and that you were proposing an excise reduction of 29.18 cents, including VAT. We are still waiting for this additional reduction. You're very strong for the announcement effects, but the population is waiting. Today, we have neither a decent amount of excise duty reduction nor an automatic system like the one you promised. With regard to electricity and heating, you have decided to reduce VAT on gas and electricity at the end of the winter. It will be valid during the summer and the economy for households will be really ridiculous. There is, however, good news: the state is not the only one to get rich with this rise in energy prices, and the multinationals of energy too. The oil companies made record profits, TotalEnergies made the greatest profit in France's history. The CREG has just published a new report which confirms what we have been saying for months, namely that Engie-Electrabel is making billions of overprofits thanks to the rise in energy prices and, in particular, to the fact that nuclear power plants are totally amortised. The regulator confirms that the government can decide on an exceptional additional contribution to get that money, as France has done, for example. Are you going to decide on measures to match the stakes, measures that will actually reduce household bills, such as a substantial reduction in fuel excise duties or a 6 % permanent VAT on basic necessities such as electricity and heating energy? Do you intend to tax the over-profits of multinationals in the energy sector? Minister, let me remind you that you are not just the Minister of Public Taxes, but also the Minister of Taxes to be imposed on the major multinationals of energy, for example! At European level, the discussion has already begun this morning, but we remain hungry. Does the government defend releases such as 6% VAT on heating oil - you think this is not possible at European level - or the European cut-off on fuel excise duty? Does the government defend this at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u3	Mr Minister, I would like to talk about the price of another fuel used by a number of cars, in particular CNG and LPG. That price has gone up to five times. There is a reduction in VAT on gas. This will have a certain impact, but it is not comparable to the impact of the adjustment of excise duties on diesel and petrol. Today we are facing a price crisis and we must help people to overcome it. This applies to everyone, including those using CNG, LPG or LNG. This is more difficult to regulate as no excise duty is levied on these fuels today. This also explains a later intervention by the public authorities, but that should not be an excuse not to develop aid measures. That's why I have a few questions. Has the Government considered measures to financially support specific users of CNG and LNG? Do you think these users deserve support? What are the difficulties in developing these aids? What exactly do you expect from the lower VAT rates on gas on the price of CNG, LPG and LNG? How many people are using these fuels today? What was the relative price increase on the pump since the invasion of Ukraine, but also compared to last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the situation is catastrophic for the budget of a number of households and, in particular, for the most vulnerable households. The measures that the government has taken are in the right direction. It should still be remembered that these measures could have been taken earlier, if you had been heard. Indeed, you made proposals very quickly on the reduction of VAT which, unfortunately, were only met a few weeks later. It is well known that the measures that have been taken will probably have to be extended. The Prime Minister recently reported in the media that, if the situation continued to be so complicated after September, the measures would be extended or strengthened. It is the whole society that is hit by the increase in the cost of energy. But this is also the case for our SMEs and self-employed. My question therefore also relates to this category. Indeed, the 1.3 billion measures you have taken – that's not nothing, even if it's probably not enough – do not concern SMEs and self-employed people for whom no action has been taken. I'd like to give you a few examples because it's always talking. For example, a restorer in my region informed me, with supporting documents, that his electricity and gas bill has increased from 2,300 euros to 4,200 euros in a few months. Another independent in the retail trade told me that his invoice had increased by 100%. A hairdresser told me that his energy monthly payments had increased from 270 to 500 euros. A baker told me he saw his bill go from 2,500 to 6,000 euros. There is therefore an explosion in energy costs: more than 100 per cent, more than 150 per cent, and more than 200 per cent for the self-employed. Unizo and the UCM spoke about this by informing us that the independents were already weakened, that they had already seen their cash flow melt. After the crisis of the covid comes the energy crisis. Minister, there are a number of tax avenues to relieve the self-employed. For Horeca, for example, the reduction of VAT on non-alcoholic beverages could be envisaged. There are proposals of which I am the author and which promote the reduction of VAT, e.g. for contact trades and hairdressers to 6%. There are other tax avenues that could, on a strictly temporary basis, support self-employed workers and our SMEs. I just wanted to ask you about your prospects in this area, about the projects you have opened up and whether we should also expect a number of measures such as those you have initiated in favour of households.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u5	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to the statements made by Mr Vermeersch and Mr Van Hees. They talk about a water gun and half-hearted measures. Mr Vermeersch, you'd better take a painkiller for sourness. Keeping up appearances today that families will not feel the crisis and that a solution is ahead is people lying. Indeed, the government must intervene, but so does she. You are talking about half-hearted measures, but I would remind you of the social tariff which protects one fifth of families, which means that in January they will have to pay only half of the commercial electricity price and one fifth of the gas price. If that's not protection, I don't remember. That is a very important measure. By the way, a study by the KU Leuven that appeared at the beginning of this week clearly concludes that the lowest deciel is highly protected by the social tariff. If you call that a half-hearted measure, I don't understand. You have also been calling for a VAT reduction to 6% on gas and electricity. You could have said today that it is a good thing that that decision has been taken. But no, you are talking about the temporary nature of that measure. I'm sorry to hear that. If you had been paying attention in plenary last Thursday, you would have heard what the Prime Minister said on the matter. If prices are still high in September, the VAT rate will not rise again. If you follow the energy sector a little bit, you will know that prices will still be high in September. That's what the CREG and all long-term predictions say. You could have welcomed the decision taken today, you do not, and I regret that. Minister, what will the September review look like? How exactly does the process of smart VAT reduction work together? The Prime Minister also assumes his responsibility at European level by addressing the problems of the freed-up energy market. Are you also calling for a regulation of gas prices? Does the government have information on this matter or should we wait for European discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u6	You seem to have somewhat updated your questions, which were submitted before we approved our measures against high energy prices. First, I'm going to go into the impact of the decisions we've made. VAT on natural gas and heat networks temporarily falls to 6% for residential contracts from 1 April 2022. This reduction in VAT will apply until 30 September 2022, just as for electricity. As Mr Verduyckt pointed out, we will examine in September on the basis of the price evolution whether we should extend those measures. A permanent reduction in VAT is certainly an option for me, of course, combined with the proposed reform of excise duties. Mr Vermeersch, the members of FEBEG have, of course, been closely involved in the drafting of the Royal Decree. They asked that during April the energy supplier be released in the choice of how to pass on the reduction: some will do so immediately via the advance bill, others will wait until the final billing. From May onwards, the reduction will be deducted from the advance invoice. Since the measure of the one-off EUR 200 heating cheque falls within the competence of the Minister for Economic Affairs, I suggest that you turn to him. Wood pellets and coal are already subject to a reduced VAT rate. Moreover, these heat sources are not subject to excise duties. Mr Van Hees, as your question suggests, it is not possible to align the VAT rate on all heating energy to 6% on a permanent basis, because the European VAT Directive prevents VAT from being reduced on certain energy sources. The government has found a solution to this problem and offers a €200 premium to families who heat their homes with oil or propane. In our country, this still affects several hundred thousand households. We will continue to protect the most vulnerable until the end of September 2022 through the expanded social tariff and the intervention of the Social Oil Fund. The government is closely following developments in the energy market. The excise duties on diesel and petrol were reduced. Including VAT, this amounts to a fall in prices of 17,5 cents per litre. The savings amount to about 10 euros per tank turn, but that also depends on the size of the tank. The entry into force was a 9% reduction. The higher prices meant a big bite from the budget of many people. However, I would like to stress that the decision was taken on Monday evening and that it was already applicable on Saturday. We have made every effort to have them published in the Belgian Official Journal on Friday, so that it could apply immediately to the maximum prices on Saturday. Like other countries, we could have waited until at least early April, but we did not. Our decision immediately had an impact on the people's budget. To those who say that prices have risen again, I would like to point out that the savings of EUR 10 per tanking still apply today. So the effort we have made does not fall into disarray. Mr Van Hees now refers to the reverse cliquet system, but when I proposed it in Parliament, he laughed at it because it had too little impact. Well, today we are talking about a difference of EUR 10 per tank turn. People who have to get gas every week feel we're solid in their wallet. So what we did was absolutely necessary to keep the invoice affordable for the people. I follow Mr Ducarme's question from the transport sector. It is true that the reduction in excise duty does not give this sector any additional benefit. The sector already benefits from a reduced rate under the system of professional diesel. The measures taken by the government are primarily measures to protect our families, which, of course, does not mean that the transport sector will also have a cash advantage when prices at the pump drop. That is also an answer to your question, Mr. Ducrame. You are calling for tax measures for the self-employed and SMEs, which are also heavily affected by rising energy prices. The reduction of fuel excise duties also gives a significant advantage to the self-employed and SMEs. Other tax measures were not part of this agreement. The main focus was on households. Furthermore, it is not a matter of returning to decisions of the budget conclave on professional diesel. Within my powers, there will be no more specific measures for the transport sector. Mr Vanbesien, you had a question about aid measures for users of CNG and LNG. These products are already exempt from excise duty in Belgium today, leaving little scope for additional aid in this area. In addition, it was not possible to introduce a uniform efficient VAT measure. LPG cannot be subject to a reduced VAT rate because it cannot benefit from the European VAT regulation as natural gas. A reduction in the VAT rate on LNG, which is often used as a fuel for freight transport, would not be efficient as the right to deduct does not constitute a cost factor for the companies concerned. The VAT reduction for natural gas relates only to supplies under residential contracts. This means that the standard VAT rate of 21 % remains applicable when, for example, CNG is charged to the pump. For questions about the number of users of CNG, LNG, LPG and the relative price increase at the pump, please refer to the Minister for Energy. Mr Verduyckt had a question about the European level and what is being done there. The Commission has put forward a number of proposals. Our country is taking a position. The European Council will take place in the coming days, where this will be discussed. All the elements are on the table. It is now looking forward to the positions of the different Member States to draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. I hope that Mr Verduyckt will also listen carefully. Indeed, already during the government statement, at the intervention of Mr Verherstraeten, I questioned CD&V about lowering prices at the pump, in temporary non-suspecto, when there was no increase at all as we know it today. Then I did not hear the sp.a support that plea in any way. But consistent as we are, we have continued to question the Minister. The Minister will confirm that, too. We have continued to ask questions about the introduction of the reverse cliquet system. Imagine, Mr Verduyckt, that we had already introduced the reverse cliquet system in October at that time, then we were in a completely different situation today. Prices have only increased since then. In the meantime, the reduction in excise duty, which we had argued for in October, is a fact. You say it correctly, Minister. Last weekend, the price of a full tank of 60 litres decreased by ten euros. But tomorrow the price for the same 60 litre tank will rise again by 10 euros. So we end up where we started. The essence of what I want to say is that the 17,5 euro cents is peanuts. It has to be much more. That's what we've always argued for. Of course, you don't take into account all the extra revenue. It is even worse for the transport sector. These professionals are faced not only with price increases but also with a perverse reduction by this government of the tax advantages in respect of professional diesel. So you're strengthening the price increases as a government. Mr Verduyckt, I hope you are still listening. Two years ago, in this committee, together with Mr Ravyts, we tabled a proposal for a reduction in VAT on gas and electricity. Everyone on the committee said we were crazy. They said it would be completely priceless. Meanwhile, the VAT reduction is a fact. Apparently, the proposals of the Flemish Interest in this committee are not even so unrealistic. The problem is that we are faced with a temporary VAT reduction. You should check the historical figures of 2014, when we also had a temporary VAT reduction. This has ultimately led to a permanent increase in electricity prices. The Flemish interest therefore continues to advocate a permanent VAT reduction for gas and electricity. What the government is doing here is a collection of very limited and, above all, short-term measures. By moving from an energy agreement to an energy agreement, this government will not come to a structural and sustainable solution. This smart VAT reduction remains a theoretical story that you continue to put up, but we have not yet seen anything of it in this House. The energy crisis, unlike the measures taken by this government, will not soon disappear. We will continue to question you on this, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u8	Minister, still today, the majority is saying that they have taken action. When you eat your flight-at-wind at the Lunch Garden, are you going to ask people what they think of your measurements? I think that would be instructive. Do you think they're happy? I don't think they fit them. You say we're going to do an evaluation in September, but after five days, your measurements are already out of date. It took you five months to decide which measures have already been exceeded after five days. That's the reality! You could have put in place an automatic system that anticipates increases. Instead, you put another system in place and you realize, five days later, that your system is not working. There's a discount, but there's no discount for people. They always pay more at the pump. Your mazout check doesn't represent much, but besides, people are excluded from it. This is the case, for example, for people who purchase heating oil at the pump or propane. Today we wonder why there are so many different rates of VAT in our country on energy, why different VAT rates are applied to wood, pellets, coal, gas, electricity, heating oil or oil in tanks, when these are essential products. We don't understand these differences. Why don't you decide once and for all to apply the 6%? Finally, I have not heard a reply about the over-profits of the energy companies. However, if we have to go somewhere to get money to finance lower prices for the population or for the self-employed, it is nevertheless to these over-profits that we have to turn to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I know that it is not easy to look both ways at the same time. Everything is happening very quickly and many things need to be anticipated. So far, the government has done a good job of providing as many people as possible with fair and equal financial support. The people who drive a LPG or CNG are not so numerous and do not have a loud voice, but at some point they have consciously made that choice for a good reason. They're gonna stay in the cold a little bit now. I know it is not easy, but I hope that at some point we will find a way to support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u10	Minister, one of the questions I asked was whether a number of avenues were being considered to deal with the problems of doubling or even tripling the amount of energy bills for our SMEs and self-employed people, who have not been met by the government so far. I am not asking you to detail them, but is there any reflection on this matter, either in your head or in the government? In the context of a topical debate, there is an exchange of views and I would like to rest the question, as the Rules of Procedure allow me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u11	Is anyone else asking for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u12	Mr President, this was not my reply. I have rested a question to which I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u13	I will ask the Minister to reply again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u14	Mr President, the honourable Member has mentioned my name six times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u15	You have begun to mention his name and he has answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u16	That's too bad, because I still liked...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u17	Minister, do you have an answer to Mr Ducarme's supplementary question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u18	I have just stated in my reply that the measures we have taken... I repeat, you are calling for tax measures for the self-employed. The reduction of fuel excise duties also gives a significant advantage to the self-employed and SMEs. Other measures are not part of this agreement. The main focus is on households. That's the answer I gave a while ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u19	Mr Minister, thank you, but that is not enough. I'm not saying it. UNIZO, a large Flemish organisation representing the self-employed, tells us that federal measures forget at this stage the self-employed and SMEs, as they leave the difficult period of the covid-19 epidemic. In terms of available reserves and cash flow, they are already in extreme difficulty. Support measures for households cannot be provided without providing support measures for self-employed people who are also severely affected by the cost of energy. I invite you to continue to reflect on a number of avenues in this regard. I would like once again to stress the quality of your work on the proposal force as part of the measures that have been adopted by the government at more than EUR 1.3 billion. I see here that, rather than making technical proposals and addressing substantive issues, the PTB - the left-wing extremists - and the Vlaams Belang - the right-wing extremists - simply join in the desire to break the government rather than in the technical and substantive exchange of a matter that affects the purchasing power and the household portfolio. I will naturally come back to that, but I want to make you aware of the call made by UNIZO and the dramatic situation as a whole. Indeed, these measures were mainly based on households, as you have indicated, and on the need for the government to reflect on a number of tax measures, including measures that could relieve a number of sectors of this doubling - or sometimes triple - of energy bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u20	Colleagues, no names have been mentioned. Mr Ducarme has simply replicated. It's his right to refer to your statement, you don't have a leg to stand on. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u21	No. He asked an additional question and then replicated the second answer. You didn't ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u22	Mr President, Mr Ducarme, I would like to make one point. The MR out in government no objection if the benefit of professional diesel is abolished. Then we won't hear you. Now you come to the committee and you are supposed to be the spokesperson for the sector. Of course, that's very easy when your government takes off the advantage of professional diesel in one breath, without any opposition from the MR. That's a very dubious attitude, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u23	Minister, the Royal Association of Accountants and Accountants of Belgium has recently been informed by the tax administration that it is intended to deactivate all e-mail and telephone traffic. The professional association is convinced that deactivation of all e-mail and telephone traffic is to the detriment of the taxable person and all digit professions. Therefore, the association sent a letter to the Minister of Finance and the Administration, with a comprehensive motivation to indicate why the disappearance of these means of communication is detrimental to both the taxpayer and the grade professions. Today, telephone traffic has already been drastically reduced. Accountants, accountants and fiscalists should help themselves with the general number, where an answer does not always follow. All mail traffic would be done via MyMinFin and eBox, but this is completely unworkable according to the numeral professions. Mr. Minister, have you taken note of the writing of professional association KVABB? Have you already responded to that letter and are you prepared to sit down with the professional association? What will you do to support the important work of the accountants, accountants and fiscalists and to improve communication with the tax authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u24	Mr Minister, technology must be a tool for better contact. This does not mean that everything must be poured into digital, impersonal and distant forms of communication. The banks, for example, are in the same process, but they have slowly become aware that individual contacts are inevitable, via a chatbox or digital meetings. Minister, you have a broad experience. So I cannot imagine you using the philosophy of putting the entire administration behind a digital wall. It is not only difficult for the citizen to make contact, but nobody is responsible anymore. There are long waiting times on the phone and in the end the citizen gets someone who doesn't even know his or her file. Maybe you'll contradict me, but don't you think that's a step in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u25	Mr Minister, the telephone numbers of the FPS Finance officials would no longer be included in the communication. Those numbers and the e-mail addresses would eventually be replaced by communications via the digital platforms MyMinfin and My e-Box. My main concern is that the digital platforms are not yet adapted to reality. Managers have already indicated that they cannot obtain all the necessary information via these platforms today. They also cannot communicate with the relevant service providers of the FPS in a timely and targeted manner, for example in the absence of a service code. They should then turn to the general contact form, but there is a very long treatment period. Do you have any knowledge of these concerns? Why do you think it is necessary that e-mail addresses and phone numbers should disappear in the long term? Is there not a risk of inefficiency if the one-on-one means of communication disappear? Can you assure me that all relevant professional associations will always be involved in improving the digital platforms? Can you guarantee that the possibility of telephone or e-mail communications will not be made more difficult before the digital systems are fully on track?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u26	Minister, we have received information that the FPS Finance would intend to completely remove the e-mail addresses of the administration in the future, so that communication can only be done via MyMinfin and eBox. In addition to depersonalizing and dehumanizing relations between taxpayers and administrative officials, this can also be detrimental to cooperation between accounting experts and the administration. This "reform" is in addition to the removal of direct telephone numbers, which means that the call centre will no longer be required to have the agent directly processing the file for which the call was made online. Minister, without being opposed to the modernization of public services, I would like to ask you to review this strategy, which, in my view, is dangerously moving taxpayers and accountants away from finance officers. Do you confirm this information? Do you not think that this would be counterproductive to the proper functioning of the administration? On the other hand, what about the work to accompany change? Has the reform been taken sufficiently upstream to be implemented properly by all the players in the sector (accountants and accounting experts)?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, communication between citizens, businesses, professional partners and the FPS Finance is of the utmost importance. The crucial role of the FPS Finance in society requires a smooth communication and interaction between all involved partners. I am glad that several colleagues in the committee stress the importance of good communication. I will introduce you to some of our ongoing projects and the challenges associated with them. The FPS Finance must and will continue to focus on new communication opportunities in our increasingly digitised society. The corona crisis has accelerated that evolution through the forced closure of our offices. Our My MinFin platform is gaining in importance and offers a lot of interesting opportunities for communicating with all the partners involved, but I also understand the possible concerns. Let me be clear: technical stability and responses must be guaranteed at all times within a reasonable period of time. I understand that the professional partners in the story, including the accountants and tax consultants, see a fast and stable form of communication in mail traffic. Unfortunately, over the last few months and years, we have seen more and more fraud attempts with e-mail addresses from public administrations, including my administration. We must ensure that our citizens, and especially those who are not yet fully aware of digitalisation, are fully protected against such fraud. Unfortunately, mail traffic offers little guarantee in this respect. In order to combat criminal practices such as phishing and to ensure the security of information transmitted by digital means, my administration, in consultation with its partners, is examining the need for an out-of-the-board phase. If necessary, you can choose to refer to your unique My Minfin secure portal for answers. For this reason, the FPS Finance will continue to work on streamlining communication through the MyMinfin platform, where appropriate also through notifications via eBox. In the long term, it is the intention of the FPS Finance to make available via the MyMinfin portal taxable persons, companies or their agent all documents received or transmitted by the administration. Once again, however, technical stability and responses must be guaranteed at all times within a reasonable period of time. If that fails, for whatever reason, the use of the channel e-mail will remain possible. In addition, telephone contact also remains central to our communication strategy. Important is the choice menu in which the caller is targeted by subject. The FPS Finance has recently added in its correspondence a code that can be used in telephone contact, in order to get to the right person more quickly and hopefully also to the solution. In its newsletter of 18 March, the ITAA stressed the initiative to communicate the direct codes and thus respond to its concerns. In any case, the optimisation of telephone services and the awareness of civil servants to provide clear and constructive responses to citizens, businesses and professional partners remain top priorities. I am therefore very much aware that any roll-out of a new communication strategy entails challenges to get everyone on board and keep them on board. I have and will keep in close contact with the interest groups on this subject, including the ITAA. My administration will soon begin consultations with the relevant interest groups in order to jointly overcome operational difficulties and find broad-based solutions for all areas of improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u28	Minister, communication on the disappearance of telephone numbers and email addresses was extremely unfortunate and disastrous. She had an impact on the grade professions, which you know will be particularly plagued in a covid year with particular features such as the right to bridge and corona unemployment. All this has made their work even more difficult. You also point out that these questions must be answered in good time. However, that is a hollow statement, because it does not appear to be the case in practice. Today, telephone traffic has already been drastically reduced. Accountants, accountants and fiscalists must help themselves with a general number. However, they tell us that there is not always an answer. We support your statement that an answer must always be provided in good time. However, this is not happening in practice today. So it is up to you to take a closer look at this situation. Also let all mail traffic run via MyMinfin and eBox is unworkable according to these numerals. That is why we call on you to sit around the table again, to listen and to see how we can change that communication. We must be able to avoid such communication in the future, so that these professions are not once again disturbed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u29	Minister, thank you. Having myself been a tax advisor, I speak with knowledge. In 90% of cases, the action of a professional facilitates the work of the tax office. And so, from the moment that our legislation increasingly involves the necessary recourse to professional figures, it is necessary that the professionals of the figure remain the preferred interlocutors of the administration. In this context, a dialogue on reforms must take place. You're announcing it. So that's good news. But there is nothing to do: at some point, direct contact, face to face, eyes in the eye – it's true also in politics, medicine, urban planning – with the controller from a professional or company is much better than conflict resolution. Sometimes there are incomprehensions and seeing each other and talking live still makes it possible to move towards solutions. I really recommend that we don't forget that part. It is true that digitalisation is increasing in all areas, even in the medical field. But, as I just said, direct contact is important. That the professionals, in any case, have a possible direct contact with the administration and with the official who deals with the file that they are dealing with seems fundamental to me. Experienced and in everyday life today – we talked about the covid period where everything was done at a distance – direct contact will never be exceeded in terms of quality. Mr Minister, I therefore invite you to continue these consultations and to try to find a modus vivendi with the professionals of the figure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u30	Mr Minister, I fully agree with what Mr Piedboeuf has just said. Organizing administrative simplification has been a long-standing goal of most governments and it is an objective that must obviously be endorsed. But, in this and in other areas, we must pay attention to the perverse effects of administrative simplification, which could actually lead to complications in communication, in relationships that are never as clear and fluid as when they are organized live, humanly. Breaking the link between the administration and the professionals of the number, the accountants and the accountants may also, in my opinion, be a risk of undermining the fluidity of the relationship between the administration and the taxpayers. I hear your concern to prevent any risk of fraud. We can only agree with you. But let us be careful to find the right balance between digitalisation and administrative simplification, on the one hand, and a human contact that I believe should be preserved, on the other. Let us also pay attention to the fact that such reforms are sufficiently prepared upstream – as I said in my question, but it is important – so that they can be implemented under optimal conditions. I am not sure that this was the case this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u31	Minister, smooth communication is indeed essential for good cooperation between the tax authorities and the citizen or his adviser, because we come into a world of increasingly complex legislation. Sometimes the exchange of two words can avoid e-mails or digital communication. One must not use one to exclude the other, one must use the different means meaningfully. I understand that there are beginners' mistakes during a change project. For example, technology is more involved than the implementation, use and buy-in of the end user. Minister, I would like to stress once again that it is important that you give the administration sufficient resources and instructions. In a process of change, people also need training and guidance. Some find eBox and MyMinfin easy, others need to learn that. If we do not do that, we will get resentment and frustration against the tax administration. Of course, it frustrates us if we receive a tax letter or a request for information, but we cannot put a layer of inaccessibility on top of that. I understand your argument about fraud, but that is a weak excuse not to ensure smooth communication as part of business culture. Last but not least, this will have been a lesson for the administration to consult with the professional bodies or the sector best able to assess where the bottlenecks are, what is needed and how it works. Good functioning is also good for the administration, so that it can deal with more files more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u32	I belong here to a great deal of unanimity among my fellow Members. Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I agree with everything you've said. I, too, strongly support the digitisation of public services and the optimisation of processes. Administrative simplification is very important, but I also strongly believe in direct human-to-human contacts. If someone has a specific problem and they can call the person who has to deal with that file, it will be more efficient and more effective. That'll go faster and better. Progress is good, as long as what is already good is not taken away. So let us try to do the 90 to 95 % of the standard actions via the system. However, take the possibility of personal contact between two professionals at the time something goes wrong does not go away. I also look forward to the outcome of your further consultation with the professional associations. We will also maintain the contacts ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Donné and Mr No 55025362C Mr Matheï's 55025680C were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u34	Minister, in Asse, a furious businessman in protest blocked access to the local ING branch. His professional current account was blocked in October and he had ended up in a hopeless situation, according to several newspaper reports. However, this is certainly not a single case. We receive several reports about entrepreneurs whose bank account is blocked by ING-Bank. This would be part of the controls that financial institutions are required to carry out, in particular the KYC regulation (know your customer, or know your customer). It stipulates that banks must know their customers and the origin of their assets. This concerns the provision of data such as the name, place of birth, occupation and final beneficiaries. All this data is also available in the UBO register. European companies have been obliged since 2019 to give up those final beneficiaries in that central register and thus to indicate who is in control. By the way, that UBO register is publicly available. The banks are authorised by the legislator to access them in the context of that customer investigation. Are you aware of the problem of ING-Bank blocking business accounts? Do you, as Minister, have any idea of the scale of the problem and the size of the number of entrepreneurs facing blocked accounts by KYC intelligence? Are business accounts blocked by other banks because of those KYC data? Do you think, Minister, that it is proportionate that accounts are blocked for weeks, that direct debits and continuous orders are stopped if an entrepreneur tries to put himself in good faith in the normal way with those KYC informations? Will you take steps to address this issue with the banking sector? What can entrepreneurs do if their bank accounts are blocked for weeks and their direct debits and ongoing orders are stopped, even though they have already put themselves in line with those KYC intelligences? We suggest that these banks simply consult the information in the UBO register, because that is public viewable. The banks are also legally authorised to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u35	The challenge facing financial institutions in terms of social responsibility is being closely followed, in particular as regards the fight against the financing of terrorism and money laundering. That struggle is an international fact to which each country contributes. In application of the preventive element in the fight against fraud, customers must transfer certain information to their financial institution, including trade with the US, similar obligations under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA). Financial institutions shall have access to the data of the UBO registry when entering into a new business relationship. The Anti-Money Laundering Act does not allow itself to be based solely on the consultation of the Registry and provides for additional measures to be taken, depending on the level of risk. It is therefore not possible to generalise and argue that in the application of the anti-money laundering law all the necessary information is already in the possession of the government or the financial institution. The appropriate identification of the client and the verification of his or her identity, for example through the UBO register, is therefore not merely an administrative obligation. In addition, in accordance with the know-your-customer or know-your-customer principle, the information must enable financial institutions to form a good picture of the client's profile in function of the compliance assignment. The more qualitative the identification, the less the customer can be controlled at a later stage with inappropriate risk management measures. I conclude from your press article that you can support any improvement in the system that would make the information of the UBO register more qualitative and thus reduce the need for additional information to be requested by companies. Returning to the alleged incident, the legislation provides that the financial institution may terminate the customer relationship in the event that the customer does not provide this information or does not provide it in time. It should be avoided that this leads to a general disproportionate exclusion from customer access to bank accounts. Within my competence, the National Bank has published a circular "criteria expectations regarding de-risking," which you can find on the National Bank's website. The government is aware of the need for a bank account for companies. That is why the Minister of Economy is currently working on a regulation on the basic banking service. Individual files cannot be addressed, but on the basis of the information provided by you and the information available in the press, the blocking seems to be a regrettable occurrence of untimely information provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll take a look at the circular, too. We do find it disproportionate that accounts are blocked because of an administrative obligation. In this particular case, we read, the entrepreneur has also made every effort to put his affairs in order, but still accounts remain blocked, direct debits are removed and continuous orders cannot be executed, which seems disproportionate to us. We therefore call for a closer look at this. Where an entrepreneur is in good faith and fulfils all obligations, the measures must be lifted immediately. The entrepreneur mentioned had everything back in order in October, but the accounts were still blocked at the beginning of this year. This is particularly problematic, as an entrepreneurial account certainly needs to be able to fluctuate smoothly and to process transactions. This should be taken into account in the circulars mentioned or in future circulars. Measures must always be kept proportionate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u37	Mrs Fonck is not present for her question No. 55025406C, so that question expires. Mr Loones is not present for his combined questions. 55025459C and 5502546 C, so those questions lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u38	Mr President, the draft on this boarding or flight tax should enter into force shortly. This draft will also be discussed in plenary tomorrow, if I am not mistaken. However, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. The airlines, travel agencies and airports remain in the dark. Within less than two weeks of the introduction of that boarding or flight tax, the two main airlines of this country stated in the newspaper La Libre Belgique that they were still not informed of this new tax which should be in force from 1 April. Firstly, what has been done as a minister to inform those airlines, those travel agencies and those airports in good time? If we can believe the press, you have not informed them yet, you have not done anything about it. Secondly, is the entry into force on 1 April still feasible? Thirdly, do you take into account the fact that the automatic collection of this new tax will require a considerable adjustment of the software of the airlines? It is a bit similar to the adjustment of the VAT reduction for gas and electricity. Even then, the energy producers stated that they needed time to adapt. Fourthly, will the new tax apply to travellers who have already booked and paid for a departure date after 1 April? Then who is to recover this new tax? Are these the airlines, which are now entitled to expect a peppered streak, as we could read in the press? Or are we talking about reservations from April 1st? Fifthly, what regime applies to flights whose travel date is changed or to flights which are cancelled? Sixthly, when will this royal decision on this new tax be published, assuming that this law will be adopted tomorrow? Finally, after the publication of this Royal Decree, will sufficient time be provided for airlines, travel agencies and airports to prepare and adapt their systems? If you keep the planned date of 1 April, they will therefore not have time to adapt their systems. I hope you will be able to shed some light on this. I think a lot of people are interested in waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u39	Minister, the boarding tax applied to passengers on commercial or private flights is expected to come into effect on April 1. Within one month of the alleged implementation of this measure, it appears that the actors concerned do not have precise information on how to apply it. Can the government confirm that meetings have taken place in the meantime to reassure, and above all inform, air operators but also travel agencies about these aspects? Several other issues are also pending. In the event that some passengers have already booked and paid for their place before the law comes into force, does the government provide for a transitional regime or can it confirm that the tax applies only to reservations made after 1 April? What about the payment or refund of the fee in case of modification or cancellation of the reservation? I would also point out that Brussels Airlines is ending 2021 with a deficit of EUR 189 million. In 2020, it had a loss of almost 300 million euros. The objective is obviously to return to a financial balance this year. Brussels Airlines also plans to repay, from 2023 onwards, the loan received from the Belgian State in 2020 of €290 million to deal with the pandemic. Therefore, does the government not fear that the introduction of this new tax will harm the air market and ultimately prevent the air sector and the tourism sector from getting their heads out of the water? Finally, can the government disclose all the information available to it to ensure that the introduction of this new tax would reduce the environmental consequences - after all, that is the objective - related to the misuse of chip jumping flights, while generating a budget revenue of between 30 and 40 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u40	We have already had an extensive debate on this in committee in connection with the discussion of the draft law on the mini-tax shift. Because the boarding fee is part of that, many questions have already been answered. I would therefore like to refer to the answers given at that time. The bill was passed in the Finance and Budget Committee on 9 March. During the work in committee, the various aspects mentioned in your questions were discussed. I refer to the content of parliamentary documents. There will, of course, be an implementing decision on the boarding fee. This will be published as soon as possible after the legal basis is adopted in plenary. Of course, information has already been passed on to airlines, but they will be given time to comply with their registration and declaration obligations. For this reason, implementing acts will also include the necessary periods of tolerance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u41	Mr. Secretary, you say you passed on the information. In the press, however, two major airlines, TUI and Brussels Airlines, say that they are not sufficiently informed and do not know where they stand today. You say that the implementing decisions will be published as soon as possible after legislative work and that tolerances will be incorporated. My question was whether the regulation would enter into force on 1 April. If you provide for tolerances, I suspect that you will not immediately send an account to the airlines and that there will be a transitional period. I would have liked to know from you when the regulation will now be effective. I think the sector and travelers would like to know that too. From when will an additional fee be charged on online reservations? You continue to create uncertainty, even with those tolerances. We will certainly debate this tomorrow in plenary. We still do not know when this tax will have to be paid in concrete terms and by whom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u42	Minister, we will therefore read the execution orders, since the Grail appears to be there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u43	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u44	I am, of course, aware that many construction projects that will be launched now or soon will only be completed after 2022. Both the families concerned and the developers deserve clarity and legal certainty. I am therefore delighted to be able to say that the government, as I am sure you knew from the press last Friday, decided to extend the temporary relief measure on demolition and reconstruction until 31 December 2023 under the same conditions that apply today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u45	Minister, we have been following the government's reports very closely last weekend. We will certainly question you about this once the documents have been submitted to Parliament. The same applies to Mrs Van der Straeten. In the context of the budgetary negotiations, all the measures will probably be reviewed again. We'll take a look at them at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u46	Minister, I also refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u47	Mr Vermeersch, the roll-out in the Antwerp port of the first phase of the project 100 % scanning concerns the step-by-step operationalisation from 2023 of five new mobile scanning systems. The results of this operationalisation will determine the following investments. More specifically, it concerns the start-up of the second phase of the project 100 % scanning, namely the installation of relayable scanning systems at the container terminals, the possible addition of means of control in the context of ongoing public procurement and the possible implementation of new public procurement, if more effective means of control are now in place. There is currently an additional mobile backscatter for deployment in the port of Antwerp. In addition, a dossier for the purchase of five mobile backscatters, to be deployed in the port of Antwerp, was submitted in early 2022 under a European grant programme. There is currently a mobile backscatter in delivery for the port of Zeebrugge. Apart from the planned upgrade of the scan tunnel at the border inspection post Zeebrugge, no additional investments are foreseen for the port of Zeebrugge. However, the situation will continue to be monitored and additional orders may always be placed in the context of current public contracts in the short term, if necessary. I don't see the exact percentage of fruit containers that was subjected to a physical check.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u48	Minister, Flanders and the Flemish ports are, of course, the gateway to Europe. Unfortunately, we have to note that there are too few people, resources and powers for our customs. The Flemish interest will continue to insist on this. The money that goes to the purchase of those five new mobile scan ports, an upgrade of existing systems, additional staff and search dogs will not be enough to reverse the current trend. We will continue to question you on the matter. I note from your reply that only one container out of 42 is still being checked. That's very little. That figure certainly needs to be raised for us. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u49	Minister, my question is more specifically about the fight against money laundering and, in general, about sanctions against Russian mafia networks. It is therefore not specifically about reactions to war, but specifically about Mafia networks. Recently, economic sanctions against Moscow have increased as a result of the invasion of Ukraine. Some specific economic sectors are affected. These sanctions for violations of international law have also struck personalities or structures close to the regime and involved in the war against Ukraine, including members of the Duma, oligarchs, military companies and President Putin himself. Obviously, these retaliatory measures are welcome and, in this context, the specific fight against Russian money laundering must be a priority. However, it seems that a specific category of the Russian President's entourage is still, and has long been, beyond the prosecution it deserves. It is for this reason that Judge Michel Claise recently reminded the press that the oligarchs' omnipresence using Russian mafia networks on European soil is established and has long been denounced by the OECD. For years, these individuals have increased investment, especially real estate, in our countries and have been laundering money. The magistrate said that "when the Berlin Wall fell, we felt that we were going to export our democratic values. At present, we have mainly imported the mafias that were present, with all their economic power." In the light of this reality, it seems to me more appropriate than ever to actively track down the members of the Russian mafia networks, in order to capture the dirty money they have imported into the European space. The fight was already of public necessity before the invasion of Ukraine; it is all the more so today. Minister, are the anti-money laundering services today capable of identifying the individuals that Justice Claise speaks of in the press? What do we know about them and their presence in Belgium? Has a specific approach to combating money laundering, to be distinguished from current retaliatory measures against oligarchs on the list, been initiated? With what means? Has the freezing of assets of oligarchs involved in mafia networks become a priority? Mr President, this is my second question. Minister, this question is about a very specific SwissLeaks problem that has highlighted concerns about automatic data exchange. There has been, once again, a flight of bank documents, with a large institution that is pinned for its dishonest practices. A few days ago, dozens of international and Belgian media told us that Crédit Suisse, which has 50,000 employees and 1.6 million customers, has opened its safes for decades to corrupt characters, to big fortunes built on illicit, questionable activities, and to individuals struck by international sanctions, but also to members of mafia networks. Interviewed by journalists, experts on "bank compliance" confirmed that, in listing the 30,000 beneficiaries of accounts that had been leaked, many should never have been allowed to carry out banking operations at Crédit Suisse. However, these practices have long been facilitated by bank secrecy in Switzerland at the time. The leak shows that many accounts were closed in 2014, when the common OECD reporting standard was introduced, and when bank information had to be shared with tax authorities in the countries of residence of account holders. Moreover, 99 % of the pinned individuals come from countries outside the OECD and therefore from the EU. There is no doubt: the exchange of information and transparency are working. This news reminds us that weaknesses remain. We learn, for example, that several executives of the bank are still encouraging alternative ways to protect money and wealth instead of using traditional bank accounts subject to exchange rules. As an environmentalist, I think it is time to re-evaluate fully the OECD Common Standard of Declaration. It must be revisited to ensure that all alternatives to automatic exchange are stopped. Minister, in view of this information, are you planning to ask for an evaluation of the automatic exchange of data, in particular on its extension to close all alternative channels, including trusts? It is clear that this standard should become global and include low-income countries that do not have the capacity for full reciprocity of information. Can and does Belgium intend to play an active role in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u50	Mrs Cornet, in Belgium, CTIF is the central body responsible for receiving and analysing reports of suspicions related to money laundering or terrorist financing. TIFC receives reports from subject entities where they know, suspect or give reasonable grounds for suspicion that funds, transactions or attempted transactions or facts of which they are aware are related to money laundering or terrorist financing. Once seized by a declaration, the CTIF shall carry out the necessary checks and, where appropriate, communicate the results of its analysis to the King's Prosecutor or the Federal Prosecutor in case of serious evidence of money laundering. Sanctions against Russia are taken at EU level and are directly applicable in Belgium. These are European regulations which have a direct effect on the national legal order of the Member States. Since 23 February 2022, several regulations have been adopted which are directly applicable in Belgium and under which persons, entities and bodies involved in the current international crisis are subject to restrictive measures and their assets must be frozen. CTIF may never initiate an investigation on its own initiative, but pays particular attention to all statements received in connection with the publication of sanctions lists. The enforcement of sanctions by Belgium is followed as a matter of priority by the general administration of the Treasury. Mr. Vanden Burre, the general administration of the Treasury has coordinated with the competent services of the administration of the Heritage Documentation to cross-check all information in order to determine the possible heritage of these oligarchs in our country. This administration is also in regular contact with the financial institutions of our country and the competent administrations in order to identify all these assets. To date, a total of €2.7 billion has been frozen in connection with the sanctions imposed on Russia. To this, we must add 7.3 billion transactions stopped. The assets freeze is an administrative measure that does not divest the persons concerned of their property. This is not about the seizure of their property since an attachment is a judicial decision that requires a judicial investigation. A consolidated list is available on the FPS Finance website. As far as the procedures for searching and analysing the different databases are concerned, it is a question of cross-checking the data, so the FPS Finance has with the European consolidated list. Mr Vanbesien, in the first line, the Foreign Ministers decide on the package of sanctions. It is my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who represents the Belgian position on sanctions at European level. This is of course recorded in the DGE. Between 23 February and 15 March, the European Union took four packages of significant sanctions against Russia and Belarus. The European regulations have been amended six times over three weeks. The list of penalties now includes 893 persons and 65 entities, whose funds and economic resources are frozen. In addition, the far-reaching measures, such as the sanctioning of Russia's central bank and the decoupling of SWIFT's additional Russian banks, can be discussed as far as sanctions are concerned at European level. So, politically speaking, these are huge achievements. I strongly believe that only a united European Union can weigh on this conflict. Within my powers, I have always followed the next line on sanctions. I asked my administration to inform the sectors and actors concerned immediately after the European publication of the Sanctions Regulation. It is the latter's responsibility to apply regulations. A derogation from application may be applied to the Treasury, which shall take a decision on the matter if necessary. Where there would be margin of interpretation, I asked the thesaurus to act under the precautionary principle and to contact the European Commission directly in case of legal doubt. Contacts between the Treasury and the Commission are therefore well developed. The Commission also provides further clarifications and guidance. I also referred to the head of the treasury as the Belgian representative in the Freeze and Seize Task Force set up by the Commission. This task force has already met twice and serves primarily to implement sanctions policy as homogeneously as possible throughout the Union. Finally, there is also, of course, close contact with neighbouring countries. Our government is therefore committed to the common European line and to the strong cooperation and exchange of information with other Member States. In reply to your question about sanctions against specific sectors, I can only indicate that Belgian positions are determined in the DGE. This is and remains one of the basic principles that sanctions must hurt Russia more than we are hurt by taking those sanctions. For good understanding, there is today a ban in Belgium on exports to Russia of all types of diamonds and precious stones, with the exception of diamonds with certain codes. With regard to the oligarchs, I can confirm that all the immediate interests of the sanctioned oligarchs are frozen. Some of them knew, of course, that these sanctions were coming. They therefore took action in the days before to hide their assets or to make them appear as if they had withdrawn from certain shareholder structures. The administration works as quickly as possible to see through these complex and less transparent structures in order to freeze all interests. There is good cooperation both between the various general administrations of the FOD and with the other administrations. Mr Vandenbroucke, I can also confirm once again that EUR 10 billion of Russian assets were frozen or blocked. This increase compared to 2014 is, of course, due to new sanctions. There are currently no concrete plans to confiscate and use these assets for post-war reconstruction. With regard to your questions concerning the UBO register, I can say that the Belgian UBO register is one of the best performing in the European Union. Of course, it remains susceptible to improvement. The emphasis is placed on the accessibility of information, either for the interconnection of European registers such as the BORIS project or through the integration of the know-your customer systems of the sectors concerned. Here too, I believe, the answer lies in further European cooperation and coordination of data from the different Member States. The UBO register should be used in accordance with its objectives. In the case of international sanctions, this means that the UBO register is consulted on the basis of sanctions. As mentioned, that investigation has been carried out by my administration, with the desired result. However, a demand for only the number of final beneficiaries with certain nationalities does not belong to this. Finally, I would like to point out that financial institutions are already legally subject to reporting and information requirements. They are required by law to inform the treasury of all the information available to them and to facilitate the application and elaboration of financial penalties. There is also a duty of cooperation in the verification of this information. This is done, among other things, through the central contact point of the account at the National Bank. This regulation and cooperation result in the necessary results. Today there are no elements that require an adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. I remain on my hunger on certain elements, such as those related to money laundering. I asked you if the services were able to identify the individuals mentioned in the press. It is not necessarily people who are subject to sanctions, but rather who are involved in mafia networks. It seems to me that the Russian mafia networks need to be given even more attention. You didn't really answer that question. I understand that the Financial Information Processing Unit (TIFU) is doing its job, and continues to deal with all the notifications made to it with great attention. You're talking about the assets that are frozen, even though some of the people affected by this freeze are pretending to be no longer involved in certain structures. This is a de facto reminder of the importance of the quality of the exchange of information, which is the subject of my other question. This morning, you gave a feedback from the Ecofin Council and referred to the fact that the list of non-cooperative countries at the tax level was mentioned informally. The use of front companies in tax havens is one way to get the assets out of the sight of the tax authorities. The automatic exchange of data should also be assessed from the perspective of the participating countries. Unless I am mistaken, you also did not answer my question on how Belgium could carry a voice asking for the evaluation of this automatic exchange of data, certain structures such as trusts still allowing to escape it. Despite the quality of your answer and the evidence provided this morning in committee, some elements of the answer are not there. I invite you to continue the work on tax cooperation, to ask for an evaluation and an improvement of the automatic exchange of data. The register of the Ultimate Beneficial Owners – UBO – Belgium is very efficient and this must continue. We need to be able to exchange this information. The TIF must also have sufficient resources to be able to fully carry out its work related to money-laundering.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u52	Thank you for the answers. I have no further reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u53	The same goes for me, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u54	Mr Freilich is not here. His question No. 55025729C therefore lapses. Mr Vermeersch, on the other hand, is still among us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u55	Mr Vermeersch, we have knowledge of the publication Chemical and biological dual-use trade and industry in Flanders: nature, size and challenges, but also of the advice on the control of trade in biological and chemical dual-use goods from Flanders. Following these publications, my administration was invited to the seminar on chemical and biological dual-use trade and industry in Flanders in the Flemish Parliament, where customs also sat on the panel. As regards the handling of infringements, it is important to distinguish between dual use goods and specific sanctions and embargoes. The sanctioning of infringements of the dual-use regulation in Belgium is based on the law of 11 September 1962, which refers to the application of the general law on customs and excise duties. The mechanism for dealing with infringements of dual-use goods is clear and works. The penalties provided for under customs legislation are criminal in nature and address serious infringements. The law of 11 September 1962 is currently being reviewed at administrative level, together with the competent departments of the FPS Economy, in order to remedy any uncertainties or gaps in the infringement of sanctions and embargoes. Following the case referred to above, a periodic consultation mechanism was established with the authorities concerned in order to facilitate cooperation and exchange of information. There is also an ad hoc exchange on specific dossiers. A formal cooperation agreement does not yet exist, but my administration is prepared to commit itself to this if that question were to arise. Finally, we are aware that there was an outreach and is done to different groups by the Control Strategic Goods Department. This outreach is only to be encouraged, given the complexity of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u56	Mr Minister, this question is a very topical one. You know that Russia is now accusing the Americans of producing chemical weapons in Ukraine, while the Americans and Joe Biden, who are coming to Brussels tonight, accuse Putin of considering using their own chemical weapons in Ukraine. That's all very unfortunate. That's a terrible way of war. If Flemish or Belgian companies are involved in this, then I, as a Flemish nationalist, naturally have the principle of never more war, in which we strongly condemn the use of such weapons. I live near Ypres, where those chemical weapons were used for the first time and where terrible war struggles have taken place. It's important to keep an eye on that. I look forward to your initiatives and any changes to the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament 55025939C by Mrs Thémont will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bayet's statement was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ben Achor's 55025944C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u58	Minister, we have often talked about inflation in recent times, as a result of the price increases. However, a higher risk is stagflation. The war in Ukraine increases the risk of stagflation, the economic phenomenon characterised by slow growth and higher unemployment combined with rising prices. This is a deadly cocktail for the economy, but also for the budget. As Minister of Finance, how do you estimate the risk of stagflation? Stagflation took place in the 1970s as a result of the monetary and fiscal policies of that time and the situation on the oil market. Do you see parallels as Minister of Finance with this period? In the case of stagflation, companies are caught between increased costs and decreased demand. This makes it difficult for some companies to calculate price increases in sales prices, resulting in inevitable pressure on profitability. This may force the banks to make provisions to anticipate a significant wave of default. Do you consider as Minister of Finance a risk to the financial institutions in this country? Finally, the risk of stagflation and the energy crisis put additional pressure on public expenditure. For Defence, too, spending will inevitably have to be increased by the war in Ukraine. Do you see an impact on the application of the budgetary rules from 2023? That was undoubtedly discussed here this morning, but there is also, of course, pressure on the further freezing of budgetary rules for 2023 to even towards 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u59	Mr Vermeersch, the risk of stagflation remains difficult to estimate. The war in Ukraine, of course, creates a context of high uncertainty. Overall, the risk of stagflation appears to have increased, but it is currently contained. According to the ECB's forecast of early March, real GDP growth in the euro area will reach 3.7 % in 2022, which is half a percentage point lower than expected in December 2021. Inflation is strongly influenced by the sharp rise in oil and gas prices. It is expected to reach 5.1 % by 2022. That's an upward revision of almost 2 percentage points. Forecasts for 2023 and 2024 are less affected, but these forecasts in the longer term are highly dependent on the assumption that the disruptions caused by the war are temporary. Since these projections only partially account for the war that has been over two weeks, the ECB also developed two more adversarial scenarios in which growth in 2022 is falling or falling to 2.3 % and inflation is rising to 7.1 % in the worst scenario. The rise in inflation that we are experiencing today may be a reminder of the end of the 1960s and the 1970s. There really is a difference between the '70s and now. The available indicators indicate that inflation expectations in the euro area are now anchored around 2%. This is the result of the central banks, which have focused on inflation control. The credibility allows the European Central Bank to gradually normalise its monetary policy. The Belgian financial institutions have come out of the corona crisis with a strong financial position and are therefore well armed to meet any challenges associated with the geopolitical crisis and high energy prices. Claims on counterparties in Russia, Ukraine or Belarus are very limited as they amount to less than 0,1% of the balance sheet total of the banking sector. As at the start of the corona crisis, banks evaluate their exposures in the light of these factors. They may need to set up additional commissions for any defaults and credit losses resulting from recent developments. However, the banking sector has a very large capital base to cover these additional commissions without compromising the financial health or stability of the Belgian financial system. By the end of 2021, the Belgian banking sector had a free capital reserve of no less than EUR 27 billion in addition to the minimum capital requirements. This large capital reserve will be sufficient to finance additional commissions, even if they are much larger than at the beginning of the pandemic, which seems rather unlikely. With regard to the suspension of budgetary rules, the general escape clause is still applicable until the end of 2022. However, in the light of the uncertainty of the war in Ukraine, that clause may be extended. My approach to this is clear that there are no taboos. However, we cannot take the final decision on this until the Commission's spring prospects are known in May. This general escape clause gives governments the opportunity to intervene in crisis situations. That was necessary for the corona measures and it may also be necessary because of the Ukraine crisis. Think of the additional expenditure on the reception of refugees, the support measures for rising energy prices and the support for our citizens and families. This escape clause serves only for temporary crisis measures. More structural expenditure, such as defence expenditure to which you referred, cannot be viewed in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u60	I hope that we will not have to reclaim this answer later, once stagflation has become a reality. Let's hope not. I would remind you, however, that, before the summer, during the discussion of the budget adjustment for 2021, I made a comprehensive statement on inflation. See where we stand today. Then there was a similar answer, namely that we should not worry about inflation. In December, I called the Secretary of State for the Budget an inflationary denier. In the meantime, it has to admit reluctantly that inflation will have a damaging effect on the budget. I have the impression that the government is going blind in this area. There is no sensitivity analysis of this inflation, but I would like to call for that. I will do the same to the Secretary of State for the Budget. How sensitive is our budget to that at the moment? Of course, we will not get away with it if we say that everything is budget-neutral. The government must be prepared to quantify not only the impact of inflation on the budget but also the stagflatory pressure. In the middle of February, the National Bank also made it clear that this country must create buffers in order to continue to bear the debt. The danger of stagflation and the energy crisis put additional pressure on public spending. There are additional expenditures for the energy crisis, for defence and for the war in Ukraine, which, for example, also put pressure on living wages. The government should show proactivity and caution here. Let us hope that there will be no stagflation, but inflationary pressures are increasing. Let us pay sufficient attention to this and be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u61	Mr Minister, this morning we have already debated in broad terms where it is going at European level with regard to budgetary agreements. In recent decades, this country has not been the best budgetary student in the classroom. We could use some external pressure. The European Union has put this pressure in the past. There are always discussions and some protests about that. A number of socialist excellences have now crawled into their pen and have written an opinion piece. This morning we discussed the general line and questioned whether or not this piece of opinion is the government's position. I would now like to test eight theories, so in detail, with you. The opinion document speaks quite destructively about budgetary discipline. It is as if that is the guarantee of social and political malaise. Do you agree? The document states that the standards of the Stability Pact, together with the making of such agreements, are a mistake. Do you agree? It is considered that fiscal policy, i.e. government, would be the driving force behind the economic recovery. That is not my view of an economic operation. There is above all private initiative a driving motor. The government must create opportunities there. What do you think about that? According to the authors, there should no longer be a general European vision for the budget paths. We will look at cases on a case-by-case basis and country-by-country basis, with greater flexibility for countries that are actually not doing very well. They can only do a little worse. Do you think that's a sensible suggestion? Countries that have contracted huge debts should not be expected to put their own house in order. They must be given more room for manoeuvre in the budget. Is that your opinion, too? The fundamental debate that we really need to have in this House concerns the definition of an investment. This morning you mentioned the labelling that would be applied. A number of European paramatists can already be used for this. Can you dig this out? What are your investments? How do you measure its productive character? Do you agree with the opinion document in which current expenditure is by definition classified as investment? Minister Vandenbroucke has been in favour of a reinsurance mechanism for unemployment for many years, and that mechanism is now reflected in the opinion document. Do you think that is wise, or do you think that it is necessary for Member States to assume their responsibilities? Finally, a proposal is being launched - interesting, certainly as an idea - to put social cohesion on an equal footing with budgetary stability. How this should work in practice, which should be the concern of a finance minister, I should like to hear from you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u62	Minister, in an opinion paper in the newspaper De Tijd, socialist ministers and State Secretary argued in favour of revising European economic and budgetary governance and transforming the Stability and Growth Pact into a pact for solidarity and resilience. Mr. Secretary, did you read that piece of opinion? Can you agree that the European Stability and Growth Pact needs to be revised and transformed into a kind of solidarity pact? Socialist ministers advocate, inter alia, the introduction of appropriate fiscal pathways in connection with their specific economic and social context. Furthermore, they believe that investments necessary for the ecological and digital transition, such as social housing and sustainable mobility, as well as social investment in care, education, training and early childhood, should be supported at Member State level, through differentiated treatment within the new regulatory framework. Does this answer to the federal positioning of European budgetary rules? I understand you didn't. Do you consider the position of the Socialist Ministers and State Secretary to be feasible in the minds of the Eurogroup? The opinion document was also signed by Walloon and Brussels socialist ministers and State Secretarys. On 14 January, you received from the Flemish Government a position on the European budgetary rules. In the meantime, have you received the official position of the other state governments? If so, what is the official position of Wallonia and Brussels on these budgetary rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u63	Mr President, this is an important dossier, as I have said on several occasions in this committee. Of course, I have had intensive consultations with all the partners on this subject for a long time. As a guide to the discussions at European level and, above all, the position I take in the debates but also during the bilateral discussions with the other European ministers and the Commissioners, my proposal already developed a federal position with some important lines of action at the end of last year. This has been intensely consulted within the government and has been shared with the Länder at the level of the prime ministers who have been given the opportunity to give feedback. I have, moreover, given a debriefing in detail with my colleagues at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Finance and Budget. We have already had a regular exchange of views on the content of this point in this committee, and I will, of course, continue to do so. It is not my intention to be in a position to be completely beaten by now, because the debate at European level is mainly on an informal basis and there are still a number of uncertainties. Firstly, there is the impact of the crisis and war in Ukraine. Secondly, there is the question of the possible extension of the general escape clause after the end of 2022. As I said earlier, that decision will be taken in May. In addition, there are few countries that have a genuinely formal position. I also noticed this during the bilateral consultations. It is important to me that the European Commission and the other Member States take on board the Belgian informal approach. I explained that to you this morning. In the fiscal guidance 2023 we notice that these principles are taken into account. I am therefore trying to weigh informally behind the scenes on the debate. That is much better than making big public statements and serves best the interests of our country. That is why I support this approach. I am also convinced that this is the best way to really weigh up the European debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u64	Minister, it seems logical to me that you should express a position formally or informally, depending on the context, as long as the result is there. But you'll have to have a position first. In order to examine an informal position, there must already be a position. It seems to me that you say between the lines that you still have time to make that point. You say that things were formulated last year and that testing is possible. But a formal decision that sets out the direction we are taking together with all the governments of this country is still not there, although the policy paper stated that this would happen this spring. I think time is short, because the discussion is ongoing at European level and I have no indication that the Commission would delay its planning. Moving on to the formal and the informal: I assume that you would rather consider an opinion piece of socialist ministers in the newspaper as a formal conclusion, while results I share your opinion that are best achieved in a different way than by looking up the spotlights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u65	Minister, you clearly indicated that there is an official position of the federal government as well as of the Flemish Government, but not yet of Brussels and Wallonia. Belgium therefore has no official position on the budgetary rules. That is particularly problematic. If we are intellectually and politically honest, we know that this is impossible in Belgium. You are therefore wisely not going into the document of opinion and the political fond of the budgetary rules dossier. It is very hypocritical that these socialist ministers and secretaries of state should go against budgetary discipline which they themselves have never applied. That's not serious. Regional deficits and debts are becoming increasingly unsustainable, especially in Wallonia and Brussels. It is also unseen that ministers and secretaries of state conduct party communication in the media in function, in principle party chairmen and MPs do so. Without budgetary discipline, which socialist excellence does not want, the abyss beckons, especially in a country like Belgium. It certainly leads to a complete schizophrenic situation in this country. In Flanders they are still more or less trying to make a fool of themselves. We are also trying to enforce strict and stricter budgetary rules. We've seen that. However, we see completely the opposite in Wallonia, with socialist ministers and Secretary of State in the lead. Worse still, as a result of the European Restoration Fund and the reduced revenue of EUR 350 million for Wallonia, Elio Di Rupo as Walloon Prime Minister argued for federal solidarity earlier this year. We now know what that means: more Flemish money for Walloon spending. Let us say it here: a plea against budgetary discipline cannot be reconciled at all with the warning given by the governor of the National Bank in an interview in De Standaard, that Belgium has absolutely no margin when a new economic crisis comes. It is now a matter of clarity, with the crisis in Ukraine. According to the governor, there should be no more delay in reducing the budget deficit and pushing debt down further, and it should not be assumed that interest rates will remain low forever. If no buffers are built up, the governor said, in five or ten years' time we will experience a scenario like what Greece has experienced. That was not a language of Flemish interest, that was the language of the governor of the National Bank. In short, Minister, as far as budgetary rules are concerned, you will still have to draw the dossier to your attention. I need you to knock on the table. I would have expected a clear response from you if your fellow ministers and Secretary of State were to distribute such an opinion document. We will certainly continue to follow up this dossier in the run-up to May.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u66	Mr Matheï is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u67	Mr Minister, during the Corona crisis, bilateral agreements were concluded with the Netherlands, Germany, France and Luxembourg in order to avoid the negative effects of the mandatory or recommended telework on workers working at home. In the meantime, these agreements have been renewed several times. The agreements with the Netherlands, France and Luxembourg run until 31 March, but may be automatically extended until 30 June. The agreement with Germany also runs until 31 March, but I do not know whether it can also be implicitly renewed. Meanwhile, the deadline is approaching. Many cross-border workers are concerned, because if neutralisation were to cease, they would have a negative tax impact. The mandatory and recommended telework is now fortunately gone. Homework is more settled than the corona pandemic. More companies are also focusing on structural homework. If we fall back on the ordinary tax rules for home-working border workers, they could be less able to work at home or suffer adverse tax consequences. Minister, what is the state of play? In addition to the tax section, there is also a section on social security, which is regulated at European level. The agreements with the Netherlands, France and Luxembourg are automatically extended until 30 June. What happens to the agreement with Germany? Social neutralization applies until the end of June. In the meantime, is a structural regulation taking into account the evolution towards more teleworking? Is the tax regime aligned with the social security scheme, since under the French Presidency an initiative was taken to review those rules for home-working frontier workers in the light of the new realities in the workplace?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u68	Ms Vanrobaeys, the agreement with Germany is likely to be extended at least until the end of April 2022 to allow frontier workers to prepare themselves for the end of the application of the specific rules during the health crisis. However, no formal agreement has yet been reached on the extension of the measure. The COOVID-19 agreements with the Netherlands, Luxembourg and France will be automatically extended until the end of June 2022. It is not unknown to you that we have been advocating structural solutions for some time now. We are truly convinced that we do not work with bilateral agreements, but rather at OECD level, i.e. at international level, examine the possibilities. At European level, in our bilateral contacts and in the OECD, we call for this to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u69	So, Minister, you have again bought a little time to work on a structural arrangement, although that is very tight for Germany, since the extension only applies until the end of April. Border workers will be most affected by this. In my question on the framework of telework yesterday to the Minister for Labour, I indicated that according to a survey by an HR company, only 7% of employees want to return to the office full-time. That will be no different for the border workers. On the contrary, in view of the distance they have to travel daily, they will be even more in demand for more structural embedding of telework. I am not saying that they have to work full-time. Everyone is aware that telework cuts the employee off contact with colleagues; contact which must be maintained. I can only support you in providing a structural solution in an international framework rather than in a bilateral framework. Tax rules should also be aligned with social rules in order to avoid negative tax consequences, to ensure equal treatment of frontier workers and workers living on the ground, and to keep frontier work attractive. In terms of mobility, we could see a decline. A very interesting report from the University of Maastricht has been published on this subject. I recommend reading it and your services. What I find particularly cynical, however, is that just that university, which publishes such a beautiful report, has its employees teleworking two days a week. If we have not found a solution by July, it will be a dead letter for the many border workers working for Maastricht University. I would find it particularly regrettable that she is losing this advantage, which allows for a better balance between work and family life.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thémont's 55026153C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u71	Mr Van Besien, the board of directors of Credendo - Export Credit Agency, the parent company, meets every month and receives all necessary information on outstanding commitments and on the concentration of risks by country. It goes without saying that Credendo applies the system of sanctions strictly to Russia, as well as to Belarus. Credendo has been extremely cautious since the outbreak of the conflict and has drastically reduced the country's policy for Russia and Belarus as the conflict evolved and international sanctions were tightened. On 24 February last, it was decided to suspend the coverage of risks in Ukraine. On 28 February last, the country's short-term and medium-term policies were finally classified into category 7, the worst risk category. In practice, this means that cover for risks in these two countries has been discontinued. Credendo also states that it does not ensure significant strategic investment. In mid-March, gross exposure to Russia to the Credendo Group amounted to EUR 3.1 billion. After deduction of the portion re-insured, the net exposure for the group is EUR 1.4 billion. It should be stressed that EUR 724 million of this, i.e. just over half, is attributable to the Russian entity for the coverage of domestic transactions in roubles that are not subject to sanctions. The remaining exposure of the other entities of the group for international trade transactions that are endorsed by the sanctions is therefore slightly less than EUR 721 million and is developing positively and is therefore falling. Credendo has not yet suffered any damage as a result of the conflict. The Russian subsidiary concerns a joint venture with a major Russian private insurer. This entity covers almost exclusively domestic transactions. That activity is not covered by the system of penalties. In addition, the Russian subsidiary has been instructed to proactively reduce the outstanding amounts by stepping out of the existing commitments as soon as possible. The Belgian State is involved in Credendo's policy. The Minister of Economy, the Minister of Foreign Trade and the Minister of Finance exercise joint custody of Credendo. The Management Board of Credendo shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice-President and ten members. Four members are appointed on the proposal of the federal ministers responsible for finance, foreign affairs, economics and development cooperation respectively. Those members or their alternates shall represent on the Management Board the Federal Minister who has nominated them. The ministerial delegates shall determine the general lines of the policy to be followed by Credendo. In the event of deliberations of the Management Board, they may suspend decisions which they consider to be contrary to the law and the interests of Belgium. As described in Article 38a (1) of the FPIM Management Agreement, the latter will carry out an analysis of the centralisation of Credendo in the course of 2022. This analysis is then discussed with the government. It goes without saying that the FPIM makes an analysis for each participation of compliance with its CSR charter, of which respect for human rights is an integral part. It will also apply to Credendo if it is centralised or not. There are no pending dossiers in Russia for which Credendo will soon have to make a decision. Credendo no longer covers new export transactions or investments in Russia. Moreover, it is also recalled that the financial commitments entered into before 26 February 2022 are not subject to the sanctions and should therefore be complied with. Credendo's risk analysis models, which define the institution's country policy, also take into account a whole range of indicators to assess, in particular, the risk of political violence. The violation of human rights is indirectly included in the indicators used to assess the risk of political violence. With regard to Belgian strategic energy independence, I refer to the Minister for Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer. I am glad to hear that it is being looked at seriously, that all these risks are being weighed up and that changes have been made to the circumstances. I'll read your answer again quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u73	In February last year, you announced that carat tax would be subject to an evaluation. It was due to take place in July last year. This evaluation is the result of both the explanatory memorandum to the 2016 Law and the decision of the European Commission to allow this flat-rate scheme. Has this evaluation been carried out effectively? Can you share this assessment with Parliament? What are the main results for you? Will the evaluation lead to an adjustment of carat tax? Is the carat tax as it currently exists compatible with the need to introduce an effective minimum corporate tax of 15%? In October last year, the publication of the Pandora Papers once again demonstrated the sensitivity to fraud in the sector, hence my additional questions. Do you believe that additional measures are necessary to reduce the sensitivity of the diamond sector to fraud? Do you believe that carat tax in its present form contributes to reducing the sensitivity of fraud in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u74	The evaluation of the yield of the diamond system in order to assess the reliability of the percentage of the gross margin was indeed launched in accordance with Article 71/1 of the Programme Act of 10 August 2015. This evaluation is currently being completed and will be submitted to the Chamber of Representatives as soon as possible. Logically, there are currently no plans to change the system of the diamond system. The system can be applied by a company which is a member of a multinational group and which falls within the scope of the model rules. These rules are currently being transposed into a European directive to ensure a minimum level of taxation of multinational groups worldwide in the Union. Where appropriate, those rules will be applied to the company which uses the diamond system in Belgium. As I stated in my policy paper, the Special Tax Inspectorate and the Anti-Fraud Coordination Service will develop additional general anti-fraud measures within my administration, inspired by the recommendation of the Special Committee on Panama Papers and international tax fraud and taking into account an analysis of the publication within the Pandora Papers, with a view to tackling international tax fraud. With regard to the impact of the flat-rate system on the sensitivity of the sector in general, there are too many parameters to rule on this. Specifically for tax revenue, I refer to the decision of the European Commission in 2016, which considered that the design of the diamond system appears to be an adequate and proportionate means and is in line with the anti-fraud objective of the diamond system. I do not want to anticipate the evaluation report, which will allow the debate to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u75	Thank you for your reply, Minister. At the time, this tax came on demand, and with it made to measure, of the diamond sector. This also ensures that alarm bells continue to go off, even if only to monitor and evaluate this carefully. I understand that the evaluation is now under way and that you also intend to share with Parliament the conclusions that follow. I am therefore looking forward to the exchange of views that may take place in this committee after the evaluation, and to any conclusions that may be drawn from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u76	Questions Nos. 55026188C, 55026189C and 55026192C by Mr.Hugues Bayet are deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u77	Minister, Minister Dermagne's answer to a parliamentary question shows that Belgium will transpose the European directive on the protection of persons reporting breaches of Union law, the so-called whistleblowers, in 2022. It was striking that the Minister indicated that Belgium would extend the scope of that Directive to whistleblowers on tax fraud and tax avoidance. I questioned you about this last year. Then you indicated that you would examine the possibility of improvements to the current situation. However, the drafting of a whistleblower's statute or a reporting point for tax fraud was not part of your action plan against social and tax fraud. So I was pleasantly surprised to hear from Minister Dermagne that you will now be working on this. That's why I have a few questions. Given the extension of the scope of the directive, I assume that you are closely involved in its transposition for this part. Can you give us a look at the timetable? Could you also give us some more information on what the system for whistleblowers on tax fraud and avoidance will look like? To what extent will this statute be in line with the rules set out in the directive? Are there any points on which you are considering derogating from the directive? To what extent do you believe that synergy can occur if the protection of tax fraud detectors is aligned with the system we have for social fraud detectors? Will all persons reporting tax fraud and avoidance be covered by the scheme or are there limits to its scope? In De Tijd, Mr Baele and Mr Aass say that Belgium must work on a speech-up culture, with the principles of trust, impartiality and protection at the heart of the transposition of the directive. Do you think this is possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u78	The scope of the whistleblowers directive is very broad and transversal. This ensures that in Belgium many public authorities are involved in the transposition of this directive. Thus, the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination, depending on Mr Sophie Wilmès, ensures that the various authorities involved meet on a regular basis and that they exchange information and consult on the transposition work. The FOD BOSA, depending on my colleague on Petra De Sutter, coordinates the transposition work for the federal public sector. You refer to the reply of my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, responsible for the FPS Economy, who coordinates the conversion work for the private sector. The three Regions and the three Communities should also transpose the Directive, each with regard to their competence. As regards the timetable for the implementation of the texts of the transposition of this Directive, the preliminary draft law was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 25 February 2022. It was transferred to the Council of State for advice. The detailed examination of the provisions will take place at the time of Parliament's examination, but I can already give you the following elements. Firstly, the provisions of the external reporting channels do indeed apply to tax fraud. Tax fraud is defined as an infringement of tax regulations. Secondly, the FPS Finance has set up a working group led by the Anti-Fraud Committee (CAF) to give concrete details of this hotline. Thirdly, in the future, everyone will always be able to report fraud to the FPS Finance Agency, as has already been the case today. In addition, the whistleblower scheme now offers protection against reprisals to the detector under a number of conditions. The hotline to be set up will in future lead to a uniform channel and procedure for reporting to the tax administration. Fourthly, there has been consultation on the establishment of a hotline between the FPS Finance and SIOD, including on best practices. Finally, in the context of the College for Combating Tax and Social Fraud, there are projects aimed at continuously improving the exchange of information and cooperation with SIOD services and social security services. I believe that Belgium should set up notification procedures to protect whistleblowers from reprisals. Together with my colleagues in the government, I closely follow up on the transposition work, which really contributes to a speech-up culture. The principles of trust, impartiality and protection are central to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u79	Thank you, Minister. I'm happy with the answer. I also know, of course, that tax fraud is very important to you, as it is to us. We are also happy to see you coming to the committee to explain and discuss your fraud plan. That invitation still stands, she hasn't expired yet. We hope to welcome you soon. This section can certainly be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u80	Minister, on February 16th, in response to one of my oral questions about the low income of personal discount payments relative to the mass of dividends distributed, you replied that "the FPS Finance does not have statistical data on the total amount of dividends paid during the years 2018 to 2020". On the other hand, in 2021, you indicated that "of the €66 billion in dividends paid, €52 billion in dividends were taxed at zero rates". These 52 billion taxable at zero are enormous, both in absolute and relative terms (79% of the total). This also raises the question of why this non-taxation is not possible. I assume that a large part is due to the system of permanently taxed income (GDR) which exempts dividends received by certain companies in the name of avoidance of double taxation. However, this system creates discrimination between companies which fulfil the RTD conditions on the one hand and natural persons and companies which do not fulfil the RTD conditions on the other, the latter two categories being subject to double taxation. With regard to these RTD conditions, it is incomprehensible that, among shareholders holding less than 10% of the capital of the company distributing the dividends, companies with a stake of at least EUR 2.5 million obtain the exemption, while those with less than that amount are taxed on the dividends received. This discrimination thus allows the very rich shareholders to accumulate the income of their financial assets in company without ever paying any tax on them. Minister, how is it that the FPS Finances does not have data for the years 2018 to 2020? How do you explain the importance of the amount of €52 billion of zero-rate taxable dividends? Are all 52 billion taxable at zero rates under the RTD scheme or are there other causes? In the latter case, can you give a breakdown of the causes and amounts? How do you justify the discrimination of RTD between shareholders with a stake of more than €2.5 million and those with less? Shouldn't this characterized tax injustice be changed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u81	Mr Van Hees, the new application dedicated to PRM, Rv-follow up in service since 2021 provides more usable data than was provided by the old Rv-on-web application. For almost $50 billion taxed at a rate of 0%, the rationale in the report for applying this rate is given by codes 102, 101 and 80. These codes refer to dividends already taxed in respect of profits of the company which distributes them and which will actually be regarded as definitively taxed. Codes 101 and 102 refer to distributions by subsidiary companies. Companies which do not hold a 10% stake may nevertheless benefit from the RTD scheme provided that they hold a €2.5 million stake at the date of award or payment of the dividends and that the other conditions of the RTD scheme are fulfilled in order to take account of all types of large stakes. In addition, a series of exceptions to the minimum participation requirement are provided for certain types of companies, e.g. those which cannot, under the laws specific to their activities, hold significant stakes in other companies. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment No 116/2006 of 5 July 2006, already confirmed that this requirement of minimum participation is not discriminatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u82	Minister, I am pleased to learn that there is a new application that provides more accurate figures. As I understand it, the three codes you indicate represent 50 billion out of a total of 52 billion euros. Is that how it should be understood? Two billion are still in nature. Your ventilation was not very clear. On the issue of €2.5 million, why are companies with a €2.5 million stake entitled to the exemption and not the others? It's kind of the reverse progressivity. I understand that the Constitutional Court held that this was not discriminatory. But, politically, I don't see how you can justify this kind of discrimination. Now, that's what I would have liked to hear from you. Unfortunately, it's not for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u83	Minister, at the beginning of February 2022, the Network for Tax Justice (RJF) sent you a letter concerning their "satisfaction with the fight against tax fraud and illegitimate tax evasion, financial fraud and the communication and information on these matters". An annex to this letter details multiple points of dissatisfaction on the issues of international tax fraud, illegitimate international tax evasion, lack of resources in the fight against tax fraud through the National Security Plan or the implementation of some of the tax measures of the anti-fraud plan which would leave to be desired. The RJF, consisting of some 30 organisations, including the country's two main trade unions, has been carrying out since 1998 awareness-raising work focusing on public information and the inquiry of the political world. In the above-mentioned letter, the RJF states that it wishes to meet with you to present its findings and requests in the fight against tax fraud and illegitimate tax evasion. Have you responded positively to this request? If not, do you intend to do so soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u84	Dear colleague, the Network for Tax Justice (RJF) is known to us for the transmission of information on various subjects such as Panama Papers and Pandora Leaks or the Court of Auditors' report on permanent tax regularization. This information is transmitted to my administration for all useful purposes. The letter to which you refer contained points of view so clearly defined that they do not need to be clarified at first. In view of the budgetary discussions, no consultation with the organization is planned in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u85	Minister, I take note of your non-positive response to their request for a meeting. I find this a pity because it is an important and representative organization. She works in the field that is yours since you are both Minister of Finance and Minister in charge of the Coordination of the fight against fraud. This is typically the organization to meet! In the short term, without knowing what it will be in the longer term, you refuse their offer to meet. In my opinion, this is damaging, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u86	Mr. Freilich is not present to ask his attached questions Nos. 55026279C and 55026281C. Question No 55026307C by Mrs Cécile Cornet is transformed into a written question, together with the attached questions Nos 55026310C and 55026334C by Mr Malik Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u87	Mr Minister, a bilateral Franco-Belgian convention of 10 March 1964 addresses the question of the taxation of French-Belgian binationals living in Belgium and working in France. Article 10 (1) of that Convention provides that "remunerations awarded in the form of salaries, wages, supplements, balances and pensions by one of the Contracting States or by a legal person governed by public law of that State not engaged in an industrial or commercial activity may be taxed exclusively in that State". However, the Court of Cassation issued a judgment in November 2020 interpreting the bilateral agreement in such a way that it would allow the SPF to rely on this decision in order to demand that Franco-Belgian residents pay their income taxes a second time and retroactively. Minister, what return can you give us with respect to the new interpretation of this double taxation tax treaty? What obligations are incumbent on French public service workers residing in Belgium and holding dual nationality? Were you able to talk to your French counterpart on the matter? What are your intentions in terms of cross-border taxation, particularly with regard to the new bilateral tax convention applicable from 2023? Minister, I am the mayor of the most French municipality in Belgium, with 34.2% French.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u88	My colleague, it should be noted first of all that Article 10(1) of the Franco-Belgian Convention of 10 March 1964 merely confers the right to impose public remuneration on the State of their source. In this context, the question of nationality is dealt with only in the third paragraph of article 10. This article does not apply where remuneration is awarded to residents of the other State having the nationality of that State. In such a case, the competent Belgian and French authorities have agreed to grant the right to impose the remuneration in question on the State of residence of the beneficiary provided that the beneficiary possesses the nationality of that State without jointly possessing the nationality of the debtor State. Concluded under the conciliation procedure provided for in the Convention, this agreement was published in the Moniteur belge on 9 November 2009. However, in a judgment of 17 September 2020, the Court of Cassation held that by requiring that a resident and national of a State not be at the same time a national of the State which allocates the remuneration, the agreement added a condition not provided for in article 10, paragraph 3. In so doing, the competent Belgian and French authorities, in the Court's view, derogate from the provisions of the Convention so that the agreement concluded by the Court is not binding. As a result, French public service workers residing in Belgium are now taxable in Belgium as soon as they have Belgian nationality. The tax obligations of workers in the French public service resident in Belgium and holders of French-Belgian dual nationality are identical to those of any other Belgian tax resident. This includes the obligation for each of them to report its global income. My administration met with its French counterpart in order to avoid double taxation on the remuneration received by the taxpayers concerned. Various avenues are being explored. The new Convention resolves the issue and restores the situation as it existed before the judgment of the Court of Cassation. Since the date of entry into force of the new Convention is subject to the approval of parliamentary assemblies in both Belgium and France, there is thus far no guarantee that it will be applied to income received from 2023 onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u89	Minister, you will understand that I will reread your rested head answer before replying since it is still quite technical. I'll check this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u90	Question No 55026383C by Mr Malik Ben Achour is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u91	Minister, the CumEx-Files were unveiled by several international media in October 2018. This case revealed to the general public the operations CumCum and CumEx, the first being at the limit of legality, the second totally fraudulent. They consist of asking for undue repayments of movable pre-payments on dividends. In order to combat this phenomenon, Belgium adopted legislative amendments in 2019, but they seem to be quite limited in relation to those taken by Germany, France and Denmark. In addition, in 2021, a second CumEx-File, an international media cooperation led by the German media Correctiv with the collaboration of the University of Mannheim, shows that no country is immune and that global tax losses are not 55 billion euros as originally estimated, but 150 billion euros, of which 7.5 billion for Belgium, which is the sixth largest in the aggrieved countries. Minister, your careless optimism in the answer to my question of February 16 and Mrs Marghem's question of November 2021 is not really reassuring. Have you been able to consult the study of the University of Mannheim which covers a period until 2020? What conclusions do you draw? How many FPS Finance officers have been mobilized to counter these fraudulent transactions? What detection procedures have been put in place to avoid repayments based on fictitious, abusive or fraudulent transactions? Can you, either in application of the preventive conventions or in application of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on withholding tax on dividends, provide me with the following data for the years 2010 to 2020: the number of refunds requested in respect of the withholding tax on dividends; the number of refunds granted on these matters; the annual amount of refunds on these matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u92	Mr Van Hees, the administration is only aware of the refunds processed by the relevant department. The amount of fraudulent repayments returned at the time of the scandal is well known and amounts to about €208 million. Working methods and selection standards in the fight against fraud cannot logically be communicated. I can assure you that an appropriate procedure has been put in place. The PM administration's specific centre team, responsible for processing requests for refunds on household allowances, has 20%. However, this team selects high-risk cases, which are then handled by the competent departments of SME and large enterprises administrations. In addition, the ISI administration makes its own selections. The exact number of officers controlling critical files then varies depending on the case. With regard to the figures you are asking for, I suggest that you provide them in writing. It seems to me that this is more a written question than an oral one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u93	Minister, thank you. I agree on obtaining this encrypted information through a written question. For the rest, I didn't really get accurate answers even though there weren't many numbers. With regard to the study at the University of Mannheim, there is no real answer. In the meantime, I have just received a document containing the figures I had requested. Thank you, Minister. I understood that they had to be obtained through a later written question. I'm going on. As for the number of agents, it varies and unfortunately it is less precise than the table I have just received. I'll take note of that. With regard to not being able to communicate certain information, it can of course be understood that this is delicate. But with regard to the past and the fact that these frauds persist, it would have been appropriate, in terms of parliamentary scrutiny, to be reassured as to the effectiveness of the fight against this fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u94	Minister, Circular 2021/C/20 sets out the conditions for a flat-rate office allowance to be granted to a worker who performs telework on a structural and regular basis (at least the equivalent of one telework day per week) to be considered a reimbursement of employer-specific and therefore non-taxable expenses. The maximum amount of the flat-rate office allowance shall be EUR 134.71 per month. The flat-rate office allowance may be combined with the provision of office furniture and computer equipment such as an office seat, a desk table, a desk cabinet, a second computer screen, a printer, a keyboard, a mouse and a telephone headphone. Minister, will you significantly increase the maximum amount of the flat-rate office allowance to cover the increase in telework costs caused by the explosion in energy prices? Indeed, the workers have become accustomed to teleworking because of the covid. Therefore, they legitimately expect government intervention. How do you justify that the flat-rate office allowance for FPS Finance agents should be limited to EUR 50 per month, which is clearly insufficient to cover the costs of telework and far below the EUR 134.71 mentioned above? Why does FPS Finance not provide these teleworking agents with the office furniture and computer equipment needed to perform their work properly? Don't you think that by refraining from providing them, the FPS Finances does not comply with the legislation on well-being at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u95	Mr. Member, as you know, last week the government took additional steps to temper the increase in energy bills. These measures are in addition to the envelope already released in February. The measures decided by the government apply to the entire population since everyone is affected by these increases. The Royal Decree of 22 November 2016 on teleworking and satellite office work in the Federal Administrative Public Service allows agents to telework at a rate of 3/5 of their working time. But this is not a telework obligation. Telework is neither a right nor an obligation. The increase of the lump sum allowance to 50 euros per month for FPS Finance staff is a federal measure proposed by the Minister of Public Service. This is a project to adapt the Royal Decree of 22 November 2006. The allowance consists of two parts: a flat-rate base amount of EUR 20 per month as an intervention in connection with connection and communication costs and a flat-rate amount of EUR 30 per month as an intervention in office costs. The new flat-rate office allowance is in addition to the existing allowance of 20 euros per month, already mentioned for the use for professional purposes of a connection and a private internet subscription which will be fixed uniformly by this draft royal decree. The additional allowance will, in accordance with the provision set out in the notifications of the multi-annual budget 2002-2024, be EUR 30 per month and will be applied uniformly within the Federal Administrative Civil Service. It covers, inter alia, the costs of water, electricity and gas consumption. Since the beginning of the health crisis, each agent has a laptop and has been able to choose a screen at home and in the office. With regard to ergonomic chairs, employees with a medical certificate were able to take back their chair at home. A first file for the purchase of ergonomic home chairs for teleworkers was rejected by the Finance Inspectorate in December 2020. The Minister of the Public Service took over the file and recommended at the end of last year that the various FPSs make ergonomic equipment available to teleworkers. The Finance FPS wanted to launch its own public procurement, but the Finance Inspection requested that the order be placed on the market that the BOSA FPS is busy preparing. Depending on the timing and allocation, the FPS Finance hopes to be able to provide ergonomic seats at home in the spring of 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of this small additional amount, since you will have noticed that we still remain well below the 134 euros, which is fixed in the tax legislation for all workers. Beyond the question of the material premium that is given to FPS Finance and other FPS officers, if I understand correctly, the screen is provided either at home or at the workplace. But if you work part of the week at home and the other part at the office, it would logically take two screens. [[I also have, of course, the difficulties in obtaining an ergonomic seat.]] The unions explained to me that they had been told that the budget was not available and that there was a need to choose between equipment and recruitment. This is, in any case, the response that the FPS Finance union delegates receive from the hierarchy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u97	Mr Minister, the Orpea scandal, concerning the ill-treatment of the pensioners of the retirement homes of this French group, has provoked a wave of indignation in France, but also in Belgium, where the group is also active, both in the north and in the south of the country. This abuse has economic reasons: to generate maximum profits from the leaders of the group in question by drastically limiting the expenditure of retirement homes. However, various analyses show that Belgian institutions in Orpea do not make significant profits or even lose, but that profits are transferred to other entities in the group via probable overestimations of expenses. These excessive charges would take four circuits, among others to Switzerland: - excessive real estate costs; - excessive management costs; - excessive invoicing to a purchasing centre; - excessive interest charges. These facts may constitute fraud, such as transfer pricing. It should also be borne in mind that these establishments are subsidised, so the alleged malfeasance would be carried out at the expense, in addition to customers, of public finances. Have you heard of these practices? Is the IRS mobilised on this issue? If not, will you require tax services to look into this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u98	As my administration is bound by professional secrecy, I cannot answer your question about the tax situation of this taxpayer. As you know, my administration is conducting a central risk analysis for the selection of files for review. In addition, local control centres may also add files to their work plans based on their own selection if tax risks arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u99	Minister, thank you for your non-response. I know there's a professional secret and you can't give the details of the tax file. But this is a large-scale case involving a group and I think it is not a breach of professional secrecy to say that you are going to ask the tax services to investigate this group. You don't violate any professional secrets if you do that. I have not heard that answer, therefore, obviously, you do not find it useful to require tax services to look into this matter. You let the tax authorities do if they want to do this investigation by chance. I find this problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u100	Mr Minister, the government agreement of 1 October 2020 provides for the introduction of a computer analysis mechanism (datamining) on the data of the Central Contact Point managed by the National Bank, which contains information on Belgian bank accounts. This text provides that the introduction of this mechanism will take place by September 2021 and that the Data Protection Authority will carry out a study. This deadline is obviously exceeded. I have asked you several times about the issue in the last few months, but I have not received a precise answer. Minister, what is the status of this datamining project? Has the Data Protection Authority been studied? If so, can I get a copy? Is the government still considering the realization of this datamining? If not, why? If so, when will it be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u101	Mr Van Hees, the Data Protection Authority has informed me that it is not in a position to carry out such a study. In doing so, it refers to the limited resources available to it and states that "the performance of additional tasks or missions on behalf of the Government is not part of its legal mandate". However, my administration prepared and presented the study requested from the College for the fight against tax and social fraud on January 24. Twelve specific projects were proposed in this study. In the current state of legislation, only two of the twelve initiatives discussed can be implemented. This study is currently under discussion within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u102	Minister, thank you. Indeed, it is quite surprising to hear that ODA cannot conduct this study for lack of resources, whereas it is an explicit request in the government agreement. It is not known whether this means that you are deadlocking on this study and are continuing to move forward or are looking for a specific way to get the information that ODA should provide. Is it the administration that will then fulfill its role? I understand that only two out of twelve projects can be undertaken, but I do not know what this is about. In any case, the government is discussing it. A timetable would also have been satisfactory. This is not yet the case. I will therefore come back to you for further clarification. Let me remind you that the deadline was September 2021. One can wonder about the causes of such a delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u103	Mr. Van den Bergh is not present to ask his question No 55026409C
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u104	Minister, in an article in De Standaard we could read that the Deposit and Consignation Cash provides an interest-free deposit account to legal persons who received government funds, as a form of solidarity between governments. Alexandre De Geest, administrator-general of the Belgian Treasury, states in the same article that companies and wealthy individuals can legally also use the deposit fund to avoid negative interest rates. Personally, I am very pleased with the initiative. I have already pointed out that negative interest rates are particularly unfair, especially for organisations receiving public funds. Such organisations often have little or nothing to do to spread their revenues in order to avoid exceeding the thresholds. I have therefore announced the possibilities of the new deposit account to my network, but still have some questions about it. How do you look at the deposit account yourself? It was an autonomous deposit fund initiative. Do you support the initiative? Will you also raise awareness of the initiative yourself? What I am not quite clear about is who is and who is not able to use the system. Does it concern only public entities or in principle all legal entities as mentioned in the article? My direct contact with a deposit fund representative showed that all organisations receiving public funds can claim it. Is this the case, for example, for a non-profit organisation or an NGO whose part of the activities is financed by public funds? Where's the border? I also learned from my communication that the offer of the deposit account with a zero rate is a temporary aid measure. Can you confirm that? What is currently the proposed duration of zero interest on the account? On the basis of what parameters will the scheme be adjusted and the deposit account will continue to exist on its own?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u105	The possibility of voluntarily depositing funds with the Deposit and Consignation Cash has existed since the establishment of the cash account. In recent years, the DCK has invested in modernising, standardising and digitising its operation, enabling its services to provide these services in a safe and efficient manner. The DCK's initiative is to provide the public institutions operating with public funds with an alternative to the placement of funds in the short term in order to avoid negative interest. The initiative was promoted through the usual channels of the FPS Finance, i.e. the website and social media. In addition, a targeted communication was made to the municipalities, from which the information was further disseminated to potentially interested local authorities. Finally, at specific request, the DCK also provided additional information, for example to hospitals. The DCK is not subject to prudential legislation, which applies to credit institutions, but is subject to specific legislation. The funds placed with the DCK follow the general rules of a deposit, as laid down in the Deposit Cash Act of 11 July 2018. In concrete terms, all the funds placed with the DCK yield interest. The interest rate shall be fixed monthly on the basis of the calculation set out in the Ministerial Decision of 13 October 2016. It explicitly states that no negative interest is charged and the interest rate in that case is 0%. The deposit account is not a temporary measure. When the financial markets recover, that category will continue to be offered, with the interest rate offered being the same as that which will apply to the other funds deposited with the DCK.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u106	Minister, it is still not clear to me whether a non-profit organisation or non-profit organisation can go to the DCK or not. Public money or donations today are actually almost directly transferred from the government or from the people who have made a donation to the shareholders of a bank and that is a bridge too far. The deposit account with the DCK could be a simple solution for non-profit organisations and NGOs that have placed their social liabilities with a commercial bank and have a negative interest on them, even if the problem would automatically disappear once interest rates rise again. Do you have a clear answer to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u107	If I understand correctly, you may expect a further response from the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u108	If he has one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u109	I'm talking, but I don't know. I'm not 100 % sure of the answer and I don't want to give it if I'm not 100 % sure. My assessment is that it only applies to the public institutions, not to non-profit organisations and so on, but let me clarify that in an answer to a subsequent oral or written question, in such a way that it is clear to you as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u110	Mr Minister, during the discussion of your policy paper we briefly discussed the VAT reduction for bicycles. You said that you had to wait until the federal bill came into force until European VAT legislation had been amended. It now appears that the amendment of the European VAT Directive will very soon appear in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 of the federal bill states that the entry into force of this law is subject to the consent of the European Union with the amendment of Annex 3 to the VAT Directive. Can you confirm that the adoption at European level will be very soon? I hear it's due on April 15th. Do you have any more information about that? Will the federal law automatically enter into force once the amendment of the VAT Directive has been published or do you still have to intervene? If you have to intervene yourself, will you do so immediately after the entry into force? In that case, can you give us a timing? Finally, is the sector able to introduce the VAT reduction immediately, or is there a need for a transitional period, for example to adapt checkout systems or to prepare other logistical changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u111	Thank you, Mr Vanbesien, for your question. Indeed, on 7 December 2021, the Council unanimously approved the amendment of the European rules on VAT rates. This amendment will enable Member States to apply a reduced VAT rate to bicycle delivery, among other things, after the entry into force of the new European provisions, but we must indeed await the finalisation of that European process. It will indeed take place in the coming weeks. It is only at that time that further steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u112	Do these further steps then automatically follow through our law or do we still have to take initiatives ourselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u113	At least we have to wait for publication, and then we will see what happens next. The publication is, in any case, the first necessary condition before we can proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u114	Minister, Articles 21 and 22 of the Act of 12 December 2021 implementing the social agreement in the framework of the interprofessional negotiations for the period 2021-2022 raise the maximum amount of the tax employment bonus to 870 euros for the 2023 tax year and to 880 euros from the 2024 tax year. Minister, could you explain to me the budgetary cost of these increases in the maximum amount of the tax employment bonus for the years 2022 and 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u115	Mr President, on the basis of information provided by ONSS on the cost of the employment bonus at the level of social contributions, the FPS Finance estimated the tax impact of this increase as follows. A decrease in personal social security contributions of $65.2 million leads to a decrease in federal government revenues of $3.6 million for revenues of 2022 and an increase in PPI revenues of $5.15 million for the Regions. A decrease in personal social security contributions of $90.6 million leads to a decrease in federal government revenues of $8.82 million for 2023 revenues and an increase in PPI revenues of $6.74 million for the Regions. This difference between the impact for the federal state and the regions is due to the fact that the increase in the cost of the low-income tax credit, the tax employment bonus, has an impact entirely on the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u116	Minister, thank you for your answers. This, of course, also raises the question of compensatory measures for social security for the social aspect of the employment bonus. But these are more clear figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u117	Minister, I asked you a written question about the tax treatment of the employer's travel expenses. This issue is all the more topical with the explosion in fuel prices. I was wondering if you thought it would be appropriate to completely exempt travel expenses, especially when collective agreements provide for them. You replied that with the important environmental issues we are currently facing, there is no reason to further encourage the use of the personal car. However, I had drawn your attention precisely to the fact that, for many workers, the use of the car is not a choice but an obligation because the offer of public transport is what it is, many workplaces are not served or the schedules do not correspond in particular to the work on breaks. An FPS survey Mobility confirms this: accessibility to public transport is the most important factor influencing people's movement to their workplace. Minister, what data do you use to state that the tax treatment of travel expenses would have a decisive impact on the mode of transportation used to travel to the workplace? If, as you claim, the tax treatment of travel costs has an influence on the choice of transportation, how do you explain that the proportion of workers travelling to work by car remains stable and high (65%) while this choice is taxed? Finally, you argue that the use of the personal car to travel between the home and the workplace should not be encouraged through tax measures. Why then do you continue to grant important tax advantages not to say huge to corporate cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u118	Mr Van Hees, indeed, the car remains for many workers the preferred means of travel used between home and workplace. I see that a change in mentality and mobility habits can only go hand in hand with a full and varied offer of public transport. Again, with the important environmental issues we are currently facing, there is no reason to further encourage the use of the personal car to travel between home and work through tax measures. I do not intend to amend the tax legislation in this direction. The benefits of company cars are benefits for many workers who can only be reformed with caution, which is also an integral part of the wage policy of many employers. However, recent reforms have been put in place to ensure that only carbon-free vehicles are deductible in the employer's leadership at the beginning of 2026. Thus, the environmental impact of these corporate vehicles is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u119	Minister, I think my reply is included in my question. This tax penalty is neither ecological nor social. People who have to go to work and who have no alternative to public transport are obliged to take their car, but they are now severely penalized. Discrimination is increasing compared to those who have a company car because they don't pay anything. They do not suffer the cost of rising fuels. This huge budget for company cars could be used to really develop public transport and, indeed, offer a positive alternative to these workers. Obviously, that is not the government's choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u120	Minister, for the worker who opts for the deduction of the actual costs in his tax return, the expenses of moving the home to the place of work are calculated on the basis of a lump sum of 0.15 euro per kilometre, or 6 francs at the time when the king did not exist. I asked you a written question asking you why this amount of 0.15 euro/km has never been indexed in 30 years – since it came into effect on 1992 income. You tell me that this amount has not been indexed because the application of the rounding rules provided for in the Income Tax Code (IRC) would result in this amount being reduced to 0 euro. I am quite surprised by this answer which seems rather ridiculous to me. Article 178 of the IARC 1992 provides for at least five different indexing methods. Is there a legal obstacle that would make it impossible to introduce a specific paragraph in Article 178 of the Code to provide for indexation that would not be reduced to 0, for example by rounding up to one hundredth of the euro? If there is no obstacle, do you intend to take such an initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u121	No, there is no legal obstacle to the introduction of a new rounding rule in the 1992 IRC. Moreover, this is not part of my plans in the near future to foresee something in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic737x.u122	I take note of your refusal to reconsider the situation when, in my view, there is no justification not to index any tax amount – and this in particular. From the moment you have a tax amount in the Code, you would have to index them all. Why make an exception on this amount? All the more so since at the time, the six francs were not already particularly high for 1992. If you look at the current price of fuel, this package actually barely covers the "fuel" item. If you count the price of fuel per kilometre, it completely absorbs these 0.15 euros. Normally, it is a package that covers, in addition to fuel, car depreciation, traffic tax, insurance, maintenance, repairs, financial costs, etc. This amount is intended to cover all these items. Today, at current prices, it only covers fuel. If this package had been indexed since 1992, it would now be 0,27 euro instead of 0,15 euro. So we'd be almost double the amount. The refusal to index it is therefore totally incomprehensible, especially given the current price of fuel. But I'll take note of it. I also note that we are coming to the end of our work. I therefore release you, minister, and thank you for participating and staying to answer all the questions – as we have exhausted the agenda.
