ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you already for paying attention to the respect for your speaking time. I have to apologize to Mrs. Nadia Moscufo this afternoon. She's sick. His questions No 55025903C, No 55026159C and his inquiry No 55000269I are therefore postponed; those raised in the context of the attached questions become irrelevant. Ms. Leslie Leoni is due at 5:00 p.m. to pay tribute to the victims of the road tragedy in Strépy-Bracquegnies. She will therefore ask her question more quickly than expected, after this topical debate, in the context of the questions attached to item 17 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u2	Minister, this is not really a surprise: the human species is capable of the best as well as the worst. Crisis situations, in particular, are an opportunity for those working in the second category to demonstrate the full extent of their turpitude. In this respect, it will not have taken us long before we felt a sense of shame about the behaviour of some of our fellow citizens. The press echoed two examples, to say the least, which also illustrate the precarious conditions of women in this context. The first takes place in Antwerp, where the Labour Inspectorate and the police discovered, hidden behind a locked door, three Ukrainian women who worked for a salary of seven euros per hour. Of course, they were not registered with the National Social Security Office (ONSS) and did not have a work permit. It would appear that this case is not isolated. The second refers us to the commodification of women's bodies, a phenomenon which also tends to increase in times of crisis. Indeed, the Payoke Centre for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings reported on the experience of a Ukrainian woman who was offered accommodation on condition that she gratified the owner of some sexual favours. It is a fact that the actors in human trafficking and the exploiters of all kinds have taken action, and these stories of life are the first of them. A task force has been set up in this regard, at the initiative of the Minister of Justice. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions: Do the initial data from the Labour Inspectorate confirm these deviations? Are you associated with the work of the Task Force? In the field of your skills, what measures could be taken? What mechanisms are in place by the labour auditorate and the police, possibly in partnership with them, to prevent the exploitation of displaced persons from Ukraine? Finally, what specific provisions are in place within the Social Inspectorate in order to prepare for the fight against this type of abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u3	Minister, the war in Ukraine has caused many people to flee to Belgium. Nearly 10,000 Ukrainians have already arrived at our home - mostly women and children - and the forecasts are based on 200,000 refugees in the long term. Upon arrival, Ukrainians can enjoy temporary protection to stay and work for a year in our country. At the time of the filing of this question, Actiris claimed to have 99 Ukrainian jobseekers registered in its database - a figure which has surely increased since then and which will continue to grow. Some sectors and companies that face a shortage of workers wish to welcome these refugees. However, the employment of refugee women with children may be complicated, as jobs in need often require very specific profiles that are not always in line with that of refugee women. Moreover, as they care for their children on their own, it will be difficult for them to succeed in reconciling work and family life. Minister, the plight of these Ukrainian women opens the door to all kinds of precarious contracts and working conditions. Have you contacted the Regions in order to improve coordination and facilitate access to employment for these Ukrainian refugees? Are you considering increasing inspection controls to ensure that they are in good working conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u4	The war in Ukraine leaves no one untouched. It is therefore our task, together with other countries, to take care of the refugees as well as possible. Ukrainian refugees can receive temporary protection, which gives them right to housing, social security and access to the labour market. It is important to give the refugees who want to work the opportunity to do so. However, we must be vigilant. We are talking about a vulnerable group of people who have had to leave haven and good to flee to a safe country. They don't know our language, laws and habits, but they want to work and take care of their families. They often end up in the hands of smugglers, sometimes even without noticing it. For example, if they receive an hourly wage of 7 euros, it is about as high as in their country and they do not realize that the lifespan and costs are much higher with us. So they don't always see it as abuse. Minister Van Quickenborne recently announced that he would distribute brochures to Ukrainian refugees. Are you working with the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration to ensure that the brochures actually reach Ukrainian refugees? When will these brochures be available? How will they be divided? Which bodies will be referred to in the brochures? In what way will the refugees who have already registered and therefore no longer come to the Heysel or another registration point still receive the leaflets? How do they get the information? Finally, there is an important task for the Social Inspectorate, now that there are perhaps 120,000 to 200,000 refugees, or even more, arriving. Our social inspection is already undermanned. Are additional resources allocated to these services? Will additional staff be recruited to control more and thus tackle abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u5	Minister, trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious crimes. The government agreement rightly calls the fight against trafficking in human beings an absolute policy priority. Trafficking in human beings often also takes place in secret. So we need a strong government to get human trafficking on radar and to fight against situations of extreme exploitation. Your inspection services also play a very important role in this. This absolute policy priority must not be merely on paper. It must also be visible in the facts. Where people find themselves in precarious conditions, the exploiter is ready with euro signs in his eyes. This is, of course, also the case with the Ukrainian refugees. Many European countries have already sent out first signals from exploitation to even trafficking in human beings. A number of stories have already been reported in Belgium, to which colleagues referred. Your services therefore play a major role in this. This requires a proactive attitude and detection. If we don't see it or only part of it, it's because it's not on the radar and we need to look for it. There is a problem in that respect. I asked you a question last year about the ECOSOC service, which we will come back to later today. You replied to me at that time that with the current capacity there were no or hardly any proactive controls. Your answer to an earlier question from me taught me that the situation with the ECOSOC service has become even worse in the meantime. Then how will you carry out the checks on horticulture companies, for example? In addition, I have made a general appeal to many ministers, such as ministers Verlinden and Van Quickenborne, and to the Prime Minister for the utmost vigilance and preparedness in all Belgian services that come into contact with Ukrainian refugees to detect signs of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. So, of course, I am also asking you this question. Were both ECOSOC inspectors and other inspectors brought into the highest level of vigilance? How does that happen? Is the regulation being recalled? Is there a list of indicators, as is the case in the Netherlands, although the Dutch list can be tightened up? What indicators are there then? What approach is there to controls? How many cases of potential exploitation to trafficking in human beings have your services detected? What services were they detected by? In what circumstances did that happen? How many possible victims were referred to the centres for victims of trafficking in human beings? What's the situation now? What is also the general picture? Vooruit's proposal prompted Minister Van Quickenborne to develop a general awareness campaign. The aim of the campaign is to get the right information about exploitation through the right channels to the Ukrainian community. How does your inspection services fit into this? Will the RSZ continue to spread that information? Fourthly, Minister of Quickenborne calls for a central hotline for all potential cases of trafficking in human beings. There is now an embryo for this in the wake of the Ukraine crisis. Hopefully that will have a sustainable basis. For economic exploitation, such a thing is necessary and possible. The central hotline may also record those cases. Finally, following the corona crisis, a whole structure was devised for socio-economic monitoring. Now it's another crisis, with a huge impact on Belgium. Will you again provide for such monitoring in order to have a clear view of all the possible statutes in which Ukrainians will be employed and, if necessary, to be able to adjust your policy? Will you appeal to academics and stakeholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u6	Minister, Ukrainian refugees are vulnerable. Our city now has about 60 people, and it strikes me how loyal they are to the families who receive them, but also to the local government and our country. They want two things very quickly. They very much want their children to go to school and the local authorities must do what they can to meet that demand. They want to work, too. If they decide that they are ready, we must facilitate this. We must not abuse that either. Colleagues tell sharp stories here, but not everything is black and white. The mayor of Bruges told how a family of 7 children, 5 of whom are underage, arrives on Thursdays and is already working on Saturdays in a caterer shop. We need to pay a lot of attention to that. Like my fellow Members, I urge that the necessary information be provided to the refugees and that awareness-raising be promoted. Consultation with the regions and local authorities will be very important. Furthermore, you must bet on control. The services have worked very well together in corona times to tackle abuse in temporary unemployment. A basis has been laid and can be built on to ensure that people in a vulnerable situation are given all the rights they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u7	I didn't get those two requests for reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. First of all, I would like to express my support for all the victims of the war in Ukraine but also in other parts of the world. We must do everything possible to welcome them in dignified conditions. I would also like to commend the solidarity and investment of citizens, associations and local authorities, who every day do their utmost to help and support these people in difficulty and to welcome them with dignity. It is still too early to assess the true socio-economic impact of the war, but we must of course prepare ourselves for it and allow companies and workers to cope with it. That is why, from the very beginning of the invasion, I asked the FPS Economy to bring together the Interdepartmental Economic Commission, which brings together all federal, regional and other governments that are closely or by far concerned with economic issues. The Commission regularly monitors developments and is also in contact with the various professional federations, the various sectors and the National Crisis Centre, in particular to deal with possible shortages of raw materials or essential goods. This is also why the government has already taken the decision to prolong the temporary unemployment for force majeure that was used during the Coronavirus crisis to deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine, sanctions and possible Russian counter-sanctions that will be taken. As you know, this temporary unemployment for force majeure was extended until 30 June this year. This was one of the demands of the social partners and we have done so. The European Council decided to grant a temporary protection regime to Ukrainian citizens. That decision makes it possible for Ukrainian citizens to stay on our territory. This is a special residence situation which also gives automatic permission to work in Belgium. So Ukrainian refugees can work in Belgium unhindered. With regard to that specific residence situation, the federal government is competent, while the regions are competent in the event of economic migration. A residence permit will state that there is unlimited access to the labour market. Persons wishing to settle as self-employed persons will have to apply for a professional card. Ukrainian seasonal workers currently working and residing in Belgium on the basis of a work permit may exceptionally extend that permit. Of course, particular attention is paid to the consequences of the war, particularly the number of people who will come to Belgium. We discussed the subject at an interdepartmental conference yesterday with my colleagues from the federated entities and I know that all levels of government are determined to put in place solutions to support these people in their efforts. It is clear that not all Ukrainian citizens will be aware of their rights and how to exercise them. Excellent information is therefore absolutely necessary. That is why we must be able to combine all our forces and act on the various axes. I welcome the initiatives taken by my colleagues either at the federal government level or at the federal entity level. As far as I am concerned, and particularly those areas that fall within my competence, I have invited my administration to provide detailed and pedagogical information to feed the website specific to the info-ukraine.be crisis. This information will also be published on the Employment FPS website. At the level of federal regulation, an adjustment is also under way to provide access to the labour market for family members of persons who are granted temporary protection. This will include Ukrainian family members in the context of family reunification. A draft royal decree is currently being submitted to the Council of State for its opinion in accordance with the emergency procedure with a view to being adopted as soon as possible. In addition, in order to support the momentum of solidarity in our society and not to penalise citizens who open their doors to refugees, arrangements are being made at the level of the ONEM to ensure that this solidarity reception does not impact the status of isolated unemployed. I have also asked the inspection services to pay more attention to the plight of those foreign nationals who may find themselves in a very precarious financial situation and thus become the potential victims of black work, economic exploitation, human exploitation, social dumping or work as a false self-employed person. Together with my colleagues from the Länder, I have instructed SIOD to bring together all federal and regional inspection services and the Foreign Affairs Office to coordinate the actions. A meeting is taking place today. The purpose of that meeting is to adopt an active attitude towards an inspection campaign, including joint SIOD inspections on the ground to raise awareness of the need for increased vigilance among inspection services for all, Belgian companies and citizens. I also asked SIOD to develop an approach as soon as possible to reports of economic exploitation through the Fair Competition Contact Point, as is the case with reports of social dumping. I will also ask the government to strengthen the RSZ's ECOSOC teams with additional inspectors to deal with these specific problems. A decision is expected at the beginning of April. Finally, contacts at European level with my fellow ministers of employment from neighbouring countries are also planned in order to identify problems in border regions. The issue will also be discussed at the level of the European Labour Authority in the framework of the Undeclared Work Platform at today's and tomorrow's plenary meetings. Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, these are the answers that I could give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u9	Minister, in my question I referred to the first two manifestations of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. Since the writing of this question and its submission, that is, only a few days ago, others have come in addition. There is thus this story taken up by the local press of a lady who arrived in Belgium with her seven-and-a-half-year-old daughter and who, thanks to the vigilance of the social staff of a municipality in the region of Liège, Ans, was probably able to escape a network of prostitution. A special commission on trafficking and trafficking in human beings was established in the House two weeks ago. And now, by the chance of events, our country is confronted with an illustrative crisis of almost all the problems that can be encountered in this field. We'll have to look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u10	Mr Minister, I referred in particular to women, first-time arrivals. When these people arrive in our territory, they face obstacles that complicate their journey: the lack of mastery of the language, the difficulty of recognizing their experience, a problem of equivalence of diplomas, etc. As part of the reception of these first arrivals, the accompaniment will have to be really specialized. You say that the Employment FPS will provide detailed and educational information and, as far as federal regulations are concerned, an adaptation is under way to give access to the labour market. It's already a good thing. I was asking you if you were going to strengthen the Inspectorate's control. I hear you're going to ask the inspection services for more attention. As you say, neither should these people become slaves to the labour market and be exploited.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased to hear that you will be working with the government to see how the inspection can be strengthened. We'll know that in early April. The information on the website is also being further worked on. That's good. Unfortunately, however, I did not hear you say anything about the leaflets that the Minister of Justice would distribute. So I have not received any answers to my very clear questions. Where are they distributed and to whom? I would also like to ask you to disseminate the leaflets and information in cooperation with the refugee organisations active on the ground, but also with the organisations of the Ukrainian community. In Antwerp, there are a lot of organisations active in these areas. They can achieve these people much better. It is also important to keep a finger on the wrist there. A crisis is sometimes an opportunity to do things better. Exploitation of the weak is not new. Unfortunately, this has already happened with other refugees in the past. I hope that greater attention will be paid to this issue so that we can tackle this problem for every refugee, for all the weaker people affected by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your kind answer. I have received answers to many questions, but not to a number of questions. I have also asked you how many situations of exploitation there are and how many situations have already been referred to the centres for trafficking in human beings. I don't know why that question wasn't answered. I'm very curious about the overall picture. Does the current situation regarding exploitation already exist? I am sorry that I did not receive an answer to that question. In the meantime, I know that the RSZ has recently been involved in the awareness campaign. That is a good thing. The information will also be disseminated through them to Ukrainian refugees and diaspora. I also welcome the increased vigilance in the inspection services. I do have questions about the possibility of proactive controls. I have another question about that later. At least I hope that we will get to that today. It is good that this will happen through the SIOD, because it will be together or not. You also said something about a hotline exploitation. I have to read again exactly what you said about this. I think this is basically a good thing. I would like to warn you that Minister Van Quickenborne is already working on something at our request. We want to avoid duplication. You may, therefore, be able to tailor your work accordingly. We need to ensure that there is a multidisciplinary model for trafficking in human beings in Belgium, where these reports also reach the competent centres. It must therefore not be possible to intervene without reason with something that is separate from it. That will have to be well embedded. I wish you every success in the fight against exploitation and trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u13	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I note that things are accelerating at different levels. It gives me a good feeling that the Ministers for Economic Affairs, in the context of inter-ministerial cooperation, are once again working together to tackle this crisis. I experienced during the first corona crisis that this is a very dynamic group with a lot of confidence. For me, they've been an engine in the exit from the first corona crisis. In this sense, it is good that this strong coordination is continued. With regard to your approach to the inspection services and everything related to them, I would like to call for this integrated cooperation with the regions and local authorities. I notice that the welfare workers, the OCMW's and the bridge figures at the schools are picking up the first signals. Cooperation must not go beyond their heads. I believe that there is a need for strong consultation with these services with these local authorities. By integrating the different levels one must know to whom one can contact to act against infringements. Mr Lanjri is right to say that in the past some of this has been a failure. This integrated cooperation is therefore very important to me. I suspect that this will not be the last debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u14	Minister, these are people who are completely distraught in a country that they do not know, in a country that has to take care of them. I don't think any of us, luckily, can imagine what it means to suddenly lose all the solid ground under our feet. To become a victim of exploitation from day one in the country that is supposed to provide shelter, that is unforgivable because of whom shamelessly exploits the enormous vulnerability of those people. That is why I urge you to do everything possible, together with the government, to protect those people and at the same time to be merciless to anyone who thinks they should exploit them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u15	Minister, thank you for the guidance you provide in your long answer. Indeed, the right of residence is accompanied by a right to work for Ukrainians fleeing the war as well as for their family members who arrive by family reunification. This is interesting not only for people but also because it allows us to open doors about their integration, through work, into Belgian society. I have noted that you intend to strengthen the inspection of ONSS and the ECOSOC teams. It would perhaps be useful, given what has just been said, to be able to review the status of inspections within a few weeks, but also very specific cases and requests for strengthening the ECOSOC teams. Finally, you said a word about how to support the hosts. This is a question that we will return to. It is included in agenda item 18. We will therefore have the opportunity to further develop this point at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u16	Just yesterday, Minister, Unicef warned against the exploitation of Ukrainian children. They are at increased risk of becoming victims of trafficking in human beings. The exploitation of war refugees from Ukraine is appalling and reprehensible. Unfortunately, there have also been clear cases of economic and sexual exploitation in Belgium. I hope that these few isolated cases remain. You said that there are different levels of cooperation. That makes sense, too. In dealing with the flow of war refugees, the OCMWs already play an important role. The OCMW employees are often the first contact point and the trusted person. It would therefore be advisable to provide additional support. Last week we had a debate on this with Minister Lalieux. It was suggested that, in addition to the existing inspection services, OCMW staff should be involved and that a number of tools should be provided proactively and preventively to enable refugees to be adequately informed, for example about their labour rights and also to warn them of malicious practices. It also seems logical to me that, in the case of complaints, the OCMW services act as a relay to the inspection services. As I said, such exploitation is reprehensible. I therefore hope that all the means will be used to counter such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u17	Minister, people fleeing a barbaric war to our country are in a very vulnerable position. Many are traumatized and then it is not easy to work, those traumas need to be processed first. It is often a question of young mothers with small children. They are told that they would like to work in our country in the long term. That's a good thing to say. However, it must be clear that economic exploitation is absolutely unacceptable to us and that these abuses must be detected and punished. However, we should not prevent people who may wish to work part-time from doing so. It is a good thing that they want to take that step, and we must not make every form of employment suspicious immediately. We must be vigilant in this respect. It is clear that these abuses need to be addressed. As Mr Segers said, Minister Van Quickenborne has set up a task force focusing mainly on information and sensitisation, but which is also a tool to be used in cases of abuse. I support Mrs Muylle when she says that it is very important to involve local authorities. Social services are under very strong pressure, are greatly questioned and are often the first contact point for people who are confronted with abuse. The local authorities should certainly be involved in the multidisciplinary approach that you put first. I repeat that any exploitation is unacceptable and must be stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u18	Minister, you have certainly heard of the testimonies related to the filming of the song Son of Joy by artist Stromae, produced by Abyssal productions. It's January, in the 50th Anniversary Park. The hundreds of professional extras and dancers gathered by Abyssal productions have sometimes remained motionless long moments, in stage costume. Some say they've been refrigerated. It appears that these persons were only paid, or even paid, by way of payment of fees. It's information that you've probably already examined. In this type of shooting, for mass images, it is necessary to distinguish functions and missions and to understand their articulation. The professional image providers would have been paid 150 euros per person for five days of work including rehearsals, fitting, and shooting. For the volunteer extras, only on the two days of shooting, we are told that the price was 60 euros gross for a day from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m., or 11 hours of work. In addition, the schedules appear to have been built in the night preceding the working day. In Belgium, payments range from 60 to 350 euros, so the minimum rate has been applied here. On the other hand, contracts, conditions and workloads would have been revealed only after the casting had taken place. So they danced. For the WITA (Working in the Arts) reform, you have defined three objectives: strengthening artistic practice, solidarity with and within the sector and ensuring a broader basis for the social protection of artistic workers. You will agree that the filming of this clip is in contradiction with each of these objectives. Minister, what do you think of these practices? Have you heard of this controversy? Do you consider these financial conditions to be decent and acceptable? Is it not appropriate to start a political reflection in order to arrive at a clearer definition of the functions of the list and to guarantee suitable collective labour agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u19	Mr Minister, I would have asked my question better in French, because this can be expressed so beautifully with his song. In January, a video clip of Stromae was recorded in the Cinquantenaire Park in the freezing cold. Although the end result is beautiful - I have already admired it - it was less beautiful for the dancers. There were several complaints about the working conditions of the extras and dancers in this video. Some dancers indicated that for five days' work in the freezing cold, sometimes 11 hours a day, they received a fee of 150 euros. The trade association L'Union des Artistes also received similar complaints. According to that association, professional artists had to be satisfied with a fee of 30 euros per day, which is lower than the legal minimum, while the extras received a higher fee of 60 euros per day. They were lucky to have a sugar waffle for lunch. According to the artists, the production house that was responsible for recruitment did not disclose the terms of employment until after casting. Minister, did your services know about these complaints? Did they end up only with the organisations? Do you think that this is a fair remuneration for the services that were provided? Has there been any consultation with the said trade association? Can action be taken on this? The baremas were not respected. This was also often about freelancers, not employees or people under Article 1a. We are in the process of improving the status of artists, as was stated in the coalition agreement. The first phase now lies with the NAR for advice. We hope to be able to make progress in the area of social protection. There will also be a second phase on fair pay and fair practices in the sector. Do you think there's more attention to the fair practices? Do you not agree that sectoral minimums should be agreed, including for freelancers, regardless of the status with which people in this sector work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the filming of the clip of Stromae, Son of Joy, took place in January in the Parc du Cinquantenaire and made a big noise. As much as Stromae's latest album highlights the question of precarious workers, here as well, the filming of the clip highlights practices of an entire sector. In this case, for the mass images, the dancers were reportedly paid 150 euros for five days of work, even though it was particularly cold. The extras, on the other hand, were said to have received a fee of 60 euros per day for two days of shooting each of 11 hours, which is the minimum. Some are said to have even been paid below this minimum, according to the Workers' Organisation Union of Artists. However, no complaints were filed with the Employment FPS, it appears. To top it all out, the conditions of filming and reclamation would have been communicated to the workers only after the casting, which is very common in the field. There is no wrong target in this case: it is the production companies that are responsible for these working conditions. The enthusiasm of volunteer extras or dancers to participate in this type of shooting all too often allows them to draw the remuneration down. Minister, I have no doubt that these working conditions also raise questions. Do you have or are you going to meet the Union des Artistes union? And, above all, while the first phase of the reform of the status of artist should soon be successful, would it not be appropriate to look more specifically at working conditions in this specific sector in order to improve them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I was questioned by hearing in the press about the conditions under which this video shoot would have taken place in Brussels. According to my latest information, the inspection services of the control of social laws have not received a complaint regarding this filming. Nevertheless, in cooperation with the Minister for Social Affairs, I have asked the competent administration to check that all legal obligations have been complied with. As you know, the first part of the reform of the status of workers in the art sector is currently under discussion at government level. In a second phase, the 8A working group "Working in the Arts" will focus on working conditions in the sector. We also have consultations with the Communities on the improvement of these working conditions. The lessons learned from this particular case will feed into the discussions in the framework of this reform in order to ensure that the wage scales set in the sector, as well as adequate and decent working conditions, can no longer be circumvented. The aim is to ensure good pay and working conditions in the sector as well as in any other sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u22	Minister, thank you for that clarification. As I say in the title of my question, "who says taff tells you the moneys." It is normal that for all work there should be decent remuneration. There was no complaint, and I'm not sure that makes me feel any better. Given the amount of stories and testimonies filed, it is very surprising that there is no formal complaint. Does that mean that in the sector, a complaint is also tantamount to a ban on other benefits for the future? As an artist, could we then be blacklisted and never be engaged in such castings again? Frankly, I dare hope that this is not the case and that there has been no pressure. The initiative you are taking with the social inspection services is positive and I thank you for that. In the arts sector, just as in other sectors, there is still a lot of work to be done on the status, remuneration and clear and strict rules in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u23	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I look forward to that first phase, in which we will hopefully come to a final result. The main aim is to improve social protection, but for me this improvement in social protection is also linked to fair working conditions and a fair wage. That is what I said during the various discussions we have had on this subject. An amount of EUR 150 for five days is already insufficient for the number of effective working days, let alone taking into account all the preparatory work, rehearsals and so on. So I would like to make a warm plea for fair play and fair pay in the sector in the second phase. Mrs Leroy, you say you're surprised there are no complaints. I am pleased that the Minister has his services themselves investigating what is possible, but in fact I am not surprised. After all, what is the problem in this sector over and over again is that the motivation and passion of those involved are being used, which makes them willing to work for such a wage. Getting the chance to join in a video by Stromae, I wouldn't spit on that as a dancer, to be honest. The problem, however, is that it happens time and time again, which ultimately results in a career of 20 years' pay and never gets away from their profession. In fact, there should be a minimum of appreciation and respect for every work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u24	Minister, I agree with my two colleagues and thank you for your answers and your steps. I know that work and consultation to improve working conditions are under way and I look forward to seeing the end of this issue. All work deserves a salary. I think we tend to forget it a lot in the cultural and artistic world. As my colleague said, we appeal to people who are passionate; we also appeal to the artist's prestige and we sometimes forget the working conditions. But I have every confidence and I know that we may come to better conditions in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u25	Minister, your strategic plan to combat social fraud (2022-2025) has been severely "stroked" by the Finance Inspectorate, according to Lecho. At the point, notes the daily, that "we wonder whether this text will meet the expectations and even how it could be approved as it is". The Finance Inspectorate states that it is on purpose that it "places the terms'strategic plan', as this document does not constitute an action plan (no concrete measures) and its'strategic' dimension does not appear clearly. Rather, it is a kind of catalogue of 'good intentions', most often formulated in a completely imprecise way (not to say drowned in absolute blur) and without the slightest beginning of a description of concrete content, sometimes even by operating countersenses of a very involuntary funnyness". As a result, the Inspectorate mocks the "emphatic tone" of the plan and a "nearly complete lack of precision" in defining its objectives. The opinion given by the Secretary of State for the Budget, Eva De Bleeker, is no more positive since she "reserves the right to decide on each of the concrete measures to be implemented for the implementation of this plan". And the daily to ask the question: "Will she only see it pass? We reserve the right to doubt it." Minister, I have just quoted. How do you respond to these criticisms? In addition, has your plan been discussed in the Ministerial Committee on Combating Fraud chaired by your colleague Van Peteghem, Minister of Finance? If so, was it considered sufficient? If not, when is the review of this plan in the Committee scheduled? What is the expected budget performance for each of the years involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u26	Thank you, Mr. Member, for your question. I will not comment on the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate and the style license granted by the inspector in question. I leave this to your appreciation, but I prefer to come to the substance of the case. The strategic plan (2022-2025) to combat social fraud and social dumping was validated by the Strategic Committee and submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. The strategic plan is implemented in an annual operational plan which includes the individual control actions of the social inspection services, the control actions to be carried out jointly and the new strategic and operational actions. Only the annual operational plan is submitted for approval by the Ministerial Committee on the Fight against Fraud, after which the plan is submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. The strategic plan is available on the Social Information and Research Service (SIRS) website. A correct reading concludes that during the first legislature of the duration of this strategic plan, our objective is to generate a billion additional tax and social revenues, as provided for in the government agreement, through the implementation and efforts of the inspection services. The balance sheet for the year 2021 shows that the inspection services recovered sums well beyond the estimates for the year 2022. If we rely on facts and not on assessments, we will find that this is a serious project that produces results.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. I discovered in the press the results of 2021 regarding social fraud. On the other hand, the amount of one billion you give me represents a mixture of social and tax fraud. How can it be used for comparison? It seems problematic to me that budgetary objectives should be consolidated in this way. I hear you don't want to comment on the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate. I think he'd have deserved an answer, after he'd tweak you so much. For my part, I am more tax evasion, and I am already seeing the government's shortcomings in this area. When I hear what is said about the fight against social fraud, I have the impression that it is no better. I find this harmful, because fraud represents tens of billions of euros in losses each year, which must be compensated by the population. This is a really important issue and what I read here doesn't reassure me. However, I will go to the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u28	Minister, at this stage of the health crisis, statistics on access to employment for young people are taking a positive turn. In particular, young graduates are seeing their job search prospects improve, as in 2021 one in five young people reported difficulties in finding work due to the health crisis, compared to 57% in 2020. They are even 71 per cent committed within three months of completing their studies, compared to 65 per cent in 2020. Nevertheless, these encouraging figures conceal less encouraging realities: 16% of these young people claim to have made concessions in their search for employment, by expanding the research sectors, by accepting jobs lower than those of their level of education, or by accepting low wages or even precarious contracts. Minister, thanks to the economic recovery, the job prospects for our young graduates seem to be improving, but many still face difficulties in finding a job. In Wallonia, it is even one in five young people who are unemployed. As part of your target of 80% employment rates by 2030, are you planning to implement targeted measures on access to employment for young people, especially young graduates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u29	Madam Member, thank you for your question. The fact that the prospects of young people with a university degree in the labour market have improved confirms, I think, the general trend. That some of them start their careers in another sector or in less well paid employment is of course regrettable but, fortunately, not insurmountable. Of course, the situation is less favourable for young people without a diploma. The figure you mentioned, one in five is unemployed, must be somewhat nuanced. In 2020, 5.3% of all young people aged 15-24 working and inactive in Wallonia were unemployed. The unemployment rate, i.e. the share of the unemployed in the population of the unemployed and employed workers is much higher (21.7%), but it is distorted by the fact that many young people in this age group are still in school. As far as policy is concerned, young people obviously benefit from the federal government's general policy of increasing the employment rate. However, the Regions are solely responsible for measures concerning specific target groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u30	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. In fact, the Regions are also competent in this field. I would just like to say that we often start from the assumption that diplomas are a good protection against unemployment. This is partly true, but I also believe that there are inequalities in access to employment among young jobseekers who have graduated according to their type of study. I also believe that many factors have an impact on the timing of young people's employment and that the choice of a sector can often lead to differences in the labour market by facilitating or not facilitating access to employment. But, as you say, there are many areas of competence within the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u31	Mr Minister, following the decision of the Belgian Government to grant a corona premium to employees from companies who achieved good results during the corona crisis, a special web site was created, in particular corona premium.be. It is written in two languages, which is only more or less as it should be. German was forgotten, German speakers apparently did not work well during the corona crisis. That is a first violation of the language law in administrative matters. For some employees the corona premium is compulsory, for others not, depending on the joint committee. To find out which joint committees the premium is required for, click on the web site. If they do so in the Dutch-language web site version, they end up on a French-language web site version of Monizze. That's a second violation of the language law in administrative matters. Apparently, the federal government relies on the private company Monizze for the award of the premiums. A Flemish worker who received the premium tells me that all communication about this was done exclusively in English. This is a third infringement of the language law in administrative matters, as well as of the Flemish September Decree and of Article VI.8 of the Economic Law Code. Minister, how do you explain the accumulation of violations of language law? Does all communication based on Monizze systematically happen in English or is this an exceptional case? What measures will be taken to ensure that everything is done correctly and in accordance with the language rules in force? Will those who received an English-language message from Monizze still be contacted? Will they still receive the message in their own language?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u32	Mrs Samyn, the issuing offices of the corona premium cheques do not work on commission or under the supervision of the government. The website to which you refer is apparently a commercial initiative of the company Monizze. So this is not about government communication. For questions about the website, please contact the company. The award of a corona premium is, of course, one of the social relationships between an employer and an employee, to which language legislation applies. For complaints about the application, an employee may address himself to the competent authorities. For the homogeneous Dutch language area, this is for example the Flemish Social Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Language law is a law of public order. This means that there can be no deviation from that. However, this also applies to concessionaires of a public service, as is the case with Monizze. We have identified three shortcomings here, which indicate that language legislation has taken a considerable step. It is not in that way that language peace will be ensured in the country. In addition, there are sanctions for violating language legislation. I have just checked whether anything has changed since my question was submitted. Apparently, the links to Monizze still go to the French version. I still do not find any trace of the German version, which is to be regretted two weeks after the submission of my question. I asked you a fourth question about English correspondence. I hope that they will be contacted and given the message in their own language. After all, that is the least that could be done other than apologizing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u34	Question No 55025903C by Mrs Moscufo is postponed. Ms. Merckx, Ms. Moscufo and Ms. Vindevoghel are not present. Questions Nos 55025942C, 55025943C and 55025945C are deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u35	Mr Minister, we have talked about these accidents several times here last year, every time such an accident occurs. In a few months serious accidents at work have occurred with foreign posted workers on three construction sites. In June five Polish workers died in Antwerp. At the end of September, a Ukrainian worker collapsed in Charleroi. In December, one dead and three seriously injured after the collapse of a house in Saint Gillis. After the drama in Antwerp, you had a consultation with the trade unions and announced that you would draw up a roadmap in consultation with the social partners to put an end to these abuses. It had already been agreed at the time to set up an exchange for building leave in order to detect the problems and start a process of tackling the problems of accidents at work and, in particular, the language problems and the fact that there are different nationalities working in a construction site. It would be about the security of posted workers, but also about social dumping and the security aspect in public procurement. Since then, it's been a bit quiet. Ukrainian refugees can now also be employed in Belgian construction. The problem is therefore even more serious. Can you give an update on this roadmap? Has there been a meeting? What appointments were made? What concrete measures will be taken to ensure the safety and social protection of posted workers? A detailed report should normally be drawn up for each serious accident at work with a posted person on the cause of the accident and the prevention measures taken by the employer to avoid accidents. That report should be sent to the Department of Welfare Monitoring at Work. How many reports have been sent to that service over the past five years? Will these reports remain limited to a notification or will they also be followed up by the service to see what measures the employer takes? The victim's family's attorney who died in Charleroi says there's a shortage of inspection services, but there's also a lack of follow-up by the Justice Department. Files just stay down, allowing companies to continue their exploitation. Is there any cooperation with the Justice Department on this? How many files do you have ahead of you? What measures can be taken there in cooperation with the Justice Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u36	Mrs Vanrobaeys, safety and well-being at work are a priority in my policy, as you know. The follow-up of serious accidents at work with posted workers by the General Directorate for Welfare Supervision is one of the areas for action. Accidents at work on posted workers do not occur in Belgian accident statistics because posted workers remain subject to the social security system of the country of origin. In addition to the specific supervisory powers of the inspection of Welfare at Work, I would also like to refer to the SIOD's strategic plan 2022-2025. Those inspection services will closely monitor compliance with the legal provisions for serious accidents at work in the case of posted workers. In the event of an infringement, the inspection services will not hesitate to act as a deterrent. I also specifically included that action point in the FOD WASO's 2022-2024 strategic plan. The electronic registration system available to the inspection of the Welfare at Work has not so far allowed for a separate inventory of accidents at work in the case of posted workers. Therefore, no figures can be provided for the past five years. However, I can tell you that a digital solution is being worked on to make this possible in the future. I can also confirm that there is very intense and constructive cooperation with Justice at all levels, both within the strategic and structural consultation committee of the SIOD, within the district cells, between the management of administrative fines and the labour auditors, as well as between inspection services and the labour auditors. In view of the separation of powers, it is of course not for me to express my opinion on the follow-up of the cases within the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u37	Mr Minister, I do see that you are giving priority to this in various policy plans, both through the SIOD and the FOD WASO. Compliance with safety measures concerns, in part, prevention, but also inventory and follow-up. After the accident in Antwerp, we had said that a roadmap should be drawn up so that it would never happen again and those people did not leave their lives for nothing. This would be done in cooperation with the social partners, but I miss that a bit in your answer. At the time there was talk of language measures so that people at least understand each other when it comes to security measures. It's good to list some things in theory, but the practice of a construction site is something else. I'm missing that part of your answer. At least I hope that the social partners... there may now be a new occasion with the Ukrainian refugees. The General Central of the ABVV has today sent out a press release asking for Ukrainian refugees to be safely employed in the construction sector. I hope that this will be an opportunity to pick things up again and to see how, in practice, a building site, with all its complexity, can be guaranteed the safety of everyone who works there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u38	Interpellation No. Mrs Moscufo's 55000269I was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u39	Minister, in the last two years during the Corona Episode, the government has taken a lot of measures. Not least, it has created temporary unemployment corona, a much more flexible application of the temporary unemployment scheme than the regular system of temporary unemployment. The measure has, in a certain sense, also proved its usefulness and service. Now we have another extension of temporary unemployment, i.e. the much more flexible regime. Some argue for an extension of one month and others argue for an extension of three months, despite the fact that we are in code yellow, which, especially when it comes to the workplace, is very close to the complete normalization towards precorona. This raises a number of questions for me, especially since it must be clear that temporary unemployment has proved to be a very expensive measure but also particularly sensitive to abuse and fraud. This is also reflected in a number of figures that you yourself have recently made known about the results of the fight against abuse, including those of that measure. So here's what I want to know from you. Do you think it is a good idea to extend the temporary unemployment corona in view of the context in which we now find ourselves, i.e. a quasi normalization of socio-economic activities in this country and the shortage of labour? I would have liked to have heard your views on that. Although it is up to the social partners to decide on the extension, I would have liked to know your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u40	Minister, under the energy deal, the temporary unemployment scheme for force majeure was extended until the end of June 2022. The reason given is that companies are currently suffering from a significant increase in raw material prices. They also suffer from delayed and more expensive transport and a lack of raw materials. The reason for this is the war in Ukraine. However, I have also seen that employers' organisations call for a thorough reform of the traditional system of temporary unemployment. That is why I have a number of questions. It's true: we're in code yellow. We thought that at last we had some way behind the crisis, but then came the drama of the war in Ukraine and all its consequences. However, in the past, there have also been different systems to cope with crises, such as during the banking crisis. There is still a system to cope with the consequences of the Brexit. That system concerned temporary crisis unemployment, but also crisis time credit and the possibility of collective reduction of working time. What lessons have been learned from these systems? Has there been an evaluation of this? Can we take these lessons with us in the future, both in order to deal with the consequences of the war and in the event of a thorough reform of the temporary unemployment system? You asked the National Bank to investigate the impact of the war in Ukraine by the end of April. On the basis of this research, you would examine with the social partners what further measures are needed. Could you give us a little more explanation? Do you have any concrete pistes in mind? With regard to the thorough reform advocated by the employers, have they proposed pistes for this? Do you have any proposals in mind? Has the administration made any evaluations based on the experience in corona time? What method will be used to further work on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u41	Minister, I think there is no doubt. The system has proved its worth. We can all agree on that. The only question is how we proceed, even after June. There are questions coming from a lot of sectors today. It's good to see where we're from, what used to be and where we're standing today. In the long run, we experience things as an automatism. In the past, the system of temporary unemployment existed for reasons of force majeure, which was used in real situations of force majeure, such as fire and floods. If an activity really could not continue, there was the system of temporary unemployment for economic reasons. What we are experiencing today, and no matter how bad the crisis is international, is partly the result of a war. Economic reasons have economic consequences. There are a lot of systems on the table. Either one can say that one has to have a certain percentage of temporary unemployment in order to enter a system of economic unemployment, or there will be some kind of transitional regime. Either we will reform the former unemployment regime for economic reasons and see if, for example, we will not be able to build in any more activation and provide training or training. There are a lot of elements on the table today to look at that thoroughly. I hope that it is not the intention to extend it indefinitely, because I have the impression that the social partners find it easy to do so. The invoice is for the government, or at least the surpluses are sure for the government. In that sense, now is the time to look at that thoroughly. I also agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. What steps are being taken? What's for discussion? What are the opinions of the social partners? How do you see the journey between now and June? I do have a feeling of rethinking the economic power, of creating a new reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u42	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, at my request and on the basis of my proposal, the social partners have begun discussions in both the NAR and the Management Committee of the RVA on the development of a reform of the temporary unemployment system. They also talk about a transitional system of temporary unemployment before the end of temporary unemployment due to force majeure due to the corona crisis. As you know, these discussions are still ongoing. However, on 14 March 2022, the nuclear cabinet decided to extend temporary unemployment due to force majeure until 30 June 2022 to help companies suffering from the effects of the corona crisis, the war in Ukraine and the sanctions against Russia. The impact of the two crises on health and the future of companies cannot be ignored. The war in Ukraine, with its consequences for the Belgian economy, is currently in the spotlight, but there is no reason to believe that the health crisis is over, as demonstrated by what is happening in China today. It is therefore our duty to continue to support companies and workers with the same determination as during the health crisis. Temporary unemployment due to force majeure has worked very well to protect companies from closure and workers from sudden dismissal. The extension of temporary unemployment is an important element in securing the future of our companies and protecting the purchasing power of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u43	Minister, from your answer I conclude that you think it is a great thing that the social partners want to send the bill back to the government. It is high time to review this and not simply make the norm of the exception that is the corona scheme for temporary unemployment. That would be extremely unwise. You must take into account a number of realities, such as the war in Ukraine. At the same time, it is important to leave room for normal economic activity and also for the impulses inherent in a free economy, namely the disappearance and recovery of businesses, despite the current situation with the war in Ukraine. It cannot be the intention to allow one, two, maybe even three or four years if it depends on some social partners, companies that have been dead for a long time to survive. That really can't be the intention. The measure then misses a lot of its purpose, and that is what makes it very expensive. Moreover, the measure is particularly susceptible to fraud. Don't just make the exception the norm, as some argue. You have done so until the end of June, but review it thoroughly and see what underlying problems the social partners are trying to solve with what will become a form of symptom reduction. The use of temporary unemployment corona, too often, is becoming more and more a symptom control. That cannot be the intention, which means that serious reforms must be considered and that the order of the day cannot be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u44	Minister, I fully agree with you: the temporary unemployment corona has indeed kept a lot of families and businesses straight during the two-year crisis. This is an important measure, both for the maintenance of employment and for the maintenance of staff by companies and the maintenance of purchasing power for families. The study of the National Bank indicates exactly what will be investigated. Which slopes do employers' organisations have in mind? I agree with Mrs Muylle. In the past, force majeure was real, with flooding and fire. In addition, there was temporary unemployment for economic reasons. We must, of course, also deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine. I'm in favour of a strong government. I have already mentioned the temporary systems that were set up during the banking crisis, then before the Brexit, and we have not yet discussed the floods. We need to take the time to see how we support businesses and families in a good way in times of crisis, without this having to depend on extensions and uncertainties. How do we reform the system so that we can provide the support we need?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u45	I agree with Mrs Vanrobaeys. There is also no one who ignores the two crises. We do not know what will come to us in the next few weeks and months. At the same time, it is our duty to continue to give firm support to companies during the crisis. The question is whether this determination should be done in the same way as we are doing now. We have had a whole discussion about asymmetric policies and the demand of regions to be able to employ the temporarily unemployed much faster: activate them, retrain them, make them available, lead them to other jobs, reorient them. That is the kind of thing we will have to embezzle more and more into the systems of temporary unemployment. The question also arises as to whether we should participate in such systems from day one. We need to reform systems much better in line with the current labour market, Minister. By doing so, we are reacting not less decisively, but for the longer term and the future. Hopefully we will take this into account in the next few months and see how we can optimise the systems and prepare them for the challenges of the labour market. At the same time, we can face two crises and remain decisive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u46	Minister, there is not much in the coalition agreement that can charm me, but there was still a bright spot. It contains a passage giving the Länder the opportunity to turn their holiday into a paid holiday. We have not yet seen the design on which you are working, but we have already been able to observe the guidelines, by means of an opinion from the National Labour Council on your draft. This shows that you choose to use the employer's operating seat as a criterion for awarding that paid holiday. You won't be surprised that I find that an absurd choice. It is absurd for the many hundreds of thousands of commuters working in Brussels. That opinion of the National Labour Council on your draft royal decree showed that the workers' organisations and employers' organisations have questions about this. What will happen to those commuters? The employers' organisations expressed a negative opinion on your draft. I find it strange that you stated on 30 March last year that, in line with the government agreement, it would be for the Länder, both the Communities and the Regions, to turn their holiday into a paid holiday. It was therefore up to them to make a choice in this area. My colleague group chairman in the Flemish Parliament questioned Flemish Prime Minister Jambon about this half an hour ago. Now it appears that there has been no consultation with him on this matter. He even said in his reply on the draft as it now stands and was advised by the National Labour Council that he did not agree to it, that there had been no consultation and that, should the question arise, he would not agree to it. That was the answer of the Flemish Prime Minister. I questioned the two ministers for institutional reform on this matter last week and they claim that there has been no consultation with them. When are you going to discuss this design with them? Have you consulted with other state ministers? You clearly haven't discussed it with the Flemish Prime Minister. When will you consult with them? Why weren't they consulted in advance before you started designing a royal decree? What do you think of the claim made by the employers' organisations that this regulation poses practical problems and an additional cost for them, despite the fact that it was said that there should be no additional budgetary cost? I am most curious about your answer to the question in what sense will the design of KB be revised?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u47	Mrs Pas, thank you for your question and the first-hand information. Indeed, I have submitted a draft of KB which grants private sector workers an additional holiday to the NAR. This holiday is determined on the basis of the Region in which the operating seat is located. KB's draft has not yet been submitted to the government. That will happen soon. There is regular consultation with the Ministers for Employment, on a variety of dossiers. This specific subject has not yet been put on the table by one of the ministers during these consultations. The wages for this additional holiday shall be borne by the employers. This scheme will therefore indeed entail costs for them. Following the advice of the NAR, this additional holiday may be replaced by another day in a cascade scheme, either by a collective agreement at sectoral level, or by a collective agreement at company level, or by a decision of the works council, or by an agreement between the employers and the trade union delegation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u48	Minister, I am very curious to see how you intend to amend this draft. According to the Ministers for Institutional Reforms, you and your colleague, the Minister of Civil Service, would first have an opinion, but Mrs De Sutter has already said that she would allocate this earlier to the Communities. That makes more sense to me because it is a cultural holiday, more than it would be for the regions with all the practical problems. Constructive as we are, I would like to save you some work by referring to a Chamber document No. 1466 with a proposal in which we worked out it ourselves two years ago. In view of changes in your draft of KB, I would also like to give you immediately what the Prime Minister has just said. I quote: 'I also believe that it cannot be intended that Flemings working in Brussels should have a paid holiday on 8 May, the day of the Irisfest, and that they would not be able to enjoy it on 11 July. An arrangement whereby, in the bilingual area of Brussels-Capital, the holiday would be set at the employee's choice on the holiday of the Flemish or French Community seems to me to be a much better option." I'll just give it to you. I am very looking forward to KB's modified design.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u49	Mr. Secretary, telework is one of my best interests. As you have just noticed, the coronabarometer is yellow, which means that teleworking is no longer mandatory or recommended. It is of course a relief that we can also physically see our colleagues again. A survey carried out by Acerta shows that only 7% of the employees questioned wish to go to the office full-time. Most people want structural teleworking, preferably a few days a week, because they can combine work and private work better and are also more productive at home. Their preference is for a flexible arrangement, so not the same days of telework every week and the same days at the office, but alternating according to the type of work they have to do. One downside is that there is less contact with colleagues, which we already know from the corona period. The workers questioned also pointed out less opportunities for training as a disadvantage, which I consider important. The HR service provider recommends employers to pursue a well-thought-out telework policy, which provides happy workers and provides additional appeal to the labour market. Have the social partners made progress on structural telework? Can you give us an update? Meanwhile, time is ticking away. For more than two years, people have been working at home without telework and paying all the bills. It strikes me that teleworkers have fewer opportunities for training, especially when we use the work deal to promote these training opportunities. Have you received any similar signals? Do you think it is necessary to take additional measures to ensure the training opportunities of home workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u50	Madam President, Ms Vanrobaeys, telework is regulated by collective agreement 85 of 9 November 2005 on telework concluded in the National Labour Council. Article 5 of this collective agreement underlines the voluntary nature of telework. According to that provision, telework is voluntary both for the workers concerned and for employers. If telework is not part of the original job description and the employer offers the possibility of telework, the employee may accept or refuse that offer. If the employee indicates that he wishes to telework, the employer may accept or refuse that request. It follows that the employee and the employer may agree to telework on a voluntary basis. They may include quotas for this purpose in the written agreement they conclude. However, the worker cannot claim a right to telework. On 4 March the Consultative Committee asked companies and public administrations to establish a structural anchoring of telework, in consultation with the social partners. As far as enterprises are concerned, I expect the social partners to make progress in the short term in the discussions that have been going on for some time in the National Labour Council on this subject. As far as training is concerned, collective agreement 85 also provides that teleworking workers must enjoy comparable working conditions to those employed locally in the undertaking. The teleworker must therefore have the same training rights as other workers. This will certainly be a focus for the social partners in the debate on teleworking. In practice, companies have shown that they have been able to adapt to many challenges during the crisis. There can certainly be new forms of training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u51	Mr Minister, along with a whole bunch of people who work at home and who like to do so, because it can facilitate the combination of work and family life and also work itself, I look forward to the progress that the social partners need to make in order to achieve the structural telework scheme. As I said, the teleworkers have been paying the bill for two years, especially in view of the rising energy bill. In that sense, we really need to take a step forward. Of course, collective agreement 85 gives similar conditions of employment, but that is a point of attention. I also asked you a written question on this. For example, look at KBC, which, under the status of homework, continues the experiment, while, just at the time when collective agreement 85 was concluded, it was stated in a unanimous opinion of the social partners that all legislation had to be adapted to this, just in order to ensure the similar working conditions of teleworkers. We will therefore have to pay particular attention to this so that it can be guaranteed in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u52	Mr. Secretary, Thursday is Equal Pay Day. That day is organized every year by the ABVV and ZIJkant. This shows that the pay gap is still 23%. Women have to work 83 days longer than men to get the same pay. Equal Pay Day falls on March 24th this year. Research shows that the pay gap narrows and that highly educated young women even pass men, but once they are 30 and 40 years old, they fall back into the ranking. At this rate, women will have to wait another 58 years for equal pay. A study carried out by ZIJkant by Ipsos shows that both men and women do not link at all between a more balanced distribution at home and equal pay and employment opportunities, while not only does this study show that the pay gap is largely reduced to that traditional household role pattern. As soon as children arrive, the pay gap increases, and then ends in a pension ravine of 33 %. A European Parliament survey shows that the traditional division of labour at home has been strengthened by corona. Women, in particular, have taken on care responsibilities at the time and more women are considering part-time work. Have you taken note of the study by Zijkant and of the European Parliament's survey? Are the figures reflected at Belgian level? What is your analysis and opinion on that? How can we reduce the pay gap? The birth leave was extended from 1 January 2021, but this is not always taken by fathers or co-parents because of social pressure. Is that where you foresee sensitisation? A number of joint committees have still not transferred their job classification or do very little about it when they report it. Do you think that there is a need for further adjustment, rather than just the current approach to name and shame?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u53	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, the fight against the pay gap remains a priority. For example, I actively cooperate with my colleague Sarah Schlitz in the implementation of a European directive on pay transparency. We are also looking at how our legislation can be strengthened in this context, including the obligations on joint committees using job classifications. A balance between private life and working life is essential in order to improve equality between men and women and to reduce the pay gap. We are working hard to achieve an adequate transposition of the Work-Life Balance Directive by 2 August 2022 at the latest. After extending the length of maternity leave at the beginning of the legislative term, I am now actively working on the effectiveness of the exercise of this leave by transposing the directive. With regard to the data requested on birth leave, the RIZIV has informed us that the data for the full year 2021 will only be available at the beginning of July 2022. You also had a question about the pandemic. In the first instance, it has led to a reduction in the number of men working, because they are more often active in sectors where temporary unemployment has been widely used. As a result, the pay gap has narrowed slightly by 2020. This could be the result of a slightly stronger negative impact on men's wages, but this requires further analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u54	Madam President, Minister, I have also requested the figures from Minister Frank Vandenbroucke. So in all directions I look forward to those figures of the RIZIV, to see if there is a positive evolution. I support you to strengthen that legislation, to oblige joint committees to use that job classification. This will also give rise to consultation and a time when these job classifications are being consciously handled. Of course, there must also be an adequate transposition of the work-life balance directive. I have already said it several times about birth leave, and I believe that all fathers and co-parents, regardless of their status, should be able to rely on it. It is very important that the partner is involved in the care tasks for a child from birth. It appears that the distribution of these care tasks continues throughout the career at that time. I also think it is important that everyone should be entitled to this, regardless of the statute. I have a bill concerning temporary workers. That piece is divided among the social partners. In any case, I hope that you will take that with you, so that people can make use of it independently of their statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u55	Question No 55026159C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u56	Minister, this is a subject that comes back regularly to the Public Enterprises Committee and on which we have regular exchanges in one form or another with the minister in charge of bpost. On March 15, we had an exchange of views with the President and CEO of bpost, during which this subject came back, namely unfair competition in the public service led by a number of private companies, possibly transnational ones. We also had a letter from the trade union organisations who are concerned about it and who ask for clarification of the rules and for the fight against what is illegal. As we know, the delivery sector of parcels is experiencing phenomenal if not exponential growth. The crisis of the covid-19 further stimulated this type of sales. The IBPT identifies about ten operators who are struggling to capture new market shares. One way to do this is to use unfair competition or even purely illegal practices. I believe that the public authorities must intervene in this area, in particular Mrs De Sutter, who should come with legislation to regulate this sector. As for you, Minister, it is in terms of social inspections that I wanted to question you. Through social inspection, do you have an idea of the extent of illegal practices in this sector? Do you have data? What is the frequency of controls that would reveal illegal practices? Which ones, if any? Do you have figures on the number of jobs in the parcel delivery sector? What proportion of workers are covered by an employment contract within each undertaking? To what extent can a delivery person who does not freely determine his income, his place of work, his working hours or his working tools be regarded as self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u57	Madam President, Minister, we have discussed social fraud in packaging companies such as PostNL, GLS and DPD a number of times here in committee. The parcel delivery guys get exploited all the time. They have to work very long days. Sometimes children are also employed. We are talking about undeclared work, illegal employment and social fraud. These are very serious infringements, which we must not tolerate and which not only violate the rights of parcel delivery workers but also endanger them. Many parcel companies have also been subpoenaed by the labour auditorates. Some depots have already been sealed. It is a good thing that we are taking decisive action. However, the fear remains that the infringements are just a tip of the iceberg and that there are still a lot of problems that we do not see today. Minister De Sutter proposes that by 2025 all packing companies should be obliged to have at least 80% of the packages delivered by paid workers. The Minister is working on a draft law to regulate this by means of the postal law. This will enable fewer subcontractors to be appointed. You indicated your support for the proposal. Is the proposal to have at least 80% of packages delivered by paid workers not contrary to the European Directive on the free movement of goods and services? Can we do that? Do you also believe that adapting the postal law is the most efficient way to combat fraud in the parcel companies effectively? We also have to take care of the 20% that will be paid off. How will you check that? Are you in the process of increasing the number of checks by the social inspection? How many controls were carried out by the social inspection in 2020 and 2021? How far do you stand with the recruitment of additional social inspectors, in order to increase these controls, as agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u58	Mrs Lanjri, in line with the government's recently adopted strategic plan to combat social fraud and social dumping, an integrated and integrated approach to priority fraud phenomena, including social dumping, is being sought. This means de facto that any minister can, on the basis of his or her powers, take measures to tackle or discourage social fraud. I therefore refer to previous answers given in committee. I referred to the initiative of Minister De Sutter, which I support. Of course, the bill will be further discussed within the government. The main source of irregularity and infringement is the conditions of occupation of driver-delivery personnel by subcontractors under various statutes – salaried workers (often contractual obligations), active, independent or other partners. During the year 2021, federal labour inspectorates conducted 1,055 surveys of delivery companies as part of their core business activities. Of these, 474 investigations – or 45% – led to a finding of an offence that gave rise to a follow-up: either regularisation, a warning, or the drafting of a pro justitia or a criminal report. As I have already indicated in committee, I have asked SIRS to organise additional controls within the district units run by the labour auditor, in collaboration with the various regional and federal social inspection services. These actions will also be continued during this year. For example, in Action Plan 2022, 1,500 inspections are planned in the transport sector, which includes the parcel delivery service. During the last budgetary conclave, it was decided to recruit 45 additional inspectors in the social inspection services to tackle, inter alia, economic and social exploitation. These recruitments are ongoing, but I have not yet received the exact figures. In any case, we are working on it, and recruitment has been launched. As regards the determination of the status of a worker, the legislator has laid down rules. In the present case, they are of two types: firstly, the irrefutable presumption of employee status, which is provided for in the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 on social security for workers in Article 3.5; secondly, the Programme Law of 27 December 2006 on the nature of labour relations, which applies on a case-by-case basis on the basis of general criteria and on the basis of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. You are right to say that the fight against social dumping was really the goal and the broader priority. Here we are talking about a segment of activity in this context. I thank you for the figures you are giving because I believe they are helping to fuel the debate and get an idea of what is below it. The colleague was talking earlier about the tip of the iceberg. We must discover everything that is below and that contributes to deregulation, impoverishment of workers and insecurity of work. We can only encourage you to continue, to provide the means to combat this type of fraud. For the rest, we are, like you, paying attention to a legislative initiative that would help to clarify things and combat this phenomenon even more effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u60	Thank you for your answer and for the figures you have given. I note with you that it is a matter to be dealt with on all fronts at the same time, with all ministers and with the Länder. I'm glad you do. I also believe that this can be an example. We have just talked about the fact that we also need to cooperate with the Länder in other areas of employment and activation policy, but it is good that it is being done for these abuses. We are talking about people who are being exploited, and we cannot allow that. It is also good that the recruitment of the 40 inspectors is in full swing. I really hope it doesn't take too long before it's all done. I hope that they will all be there before the summer so that they can step up the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u61	Question No 55026235C by Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure is postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u62	Minister, I have had the opportunity, not long ago, to question your colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke, who, like you, has been involved in the reform of the compensation of plastic artists proposed by the FAP, the federation of plastic arts. It has put forward a proposal for minimum remuneration which it would like to see materialised and generalised, or even become mandatory, why not. As a reminder, in the world of exhibitions, everyone is paid except the visual artist under the famous justification of "exhibition is worth compensation". Without any change in remuneration, while the reform of the "artist status" is advancing, the situation of artists remains in the status quo since, in the absence of remuneration proportional to the work undertaken during the public exhibition of their work, they will only have very exceptional access to this status and will not be able to benefit from unemployment insurance. Minister Vandenbroucke has already invited all federal entities to take initiatives that strengthen the professional artistic practice of arts workers. Sub-sector collective labour agreements with remuneration and labour criteria fall within your competence. So what are you planning specifically for plasticians as part of this WITA reform? What do you intend to do to allow artists to hang their sector to the convoy of reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u63	Madam Chair and Member of Parliament, this topic has been somewhat discussed in previous questions about the conditions of the shooting of the clip of Stromae. You have mentioned this: much of the work is invisibility and the intermitence of income is inherent in this organization of work. The reform of the status of art worker takes this reality into account by proposing to reduce the number of days needed to access social protection. The Arts Labour Committee will also take into account the invisibility of creative and exhibition moments to recognize these workers as workers in the arts sector. The generalization of the rule of conversion of wages will also make it possible to take account of this reality since a work is not created in one day. The federation of the plastic arts is also actively involved in the consultations as a member of UPAC-T on the ongoing reform. Yesterday afternoon I received a letter from UPAC-T, addressed to all members of the government, asking that the reform as prepared follow its course as soon as possible. As far as collective agreements are concerned, we will analyse how to improve them in the context of the second part of the reform of the Staff Regulations, but I am already pointing out that the CTCs are a prerogative of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u64	For information, since I do not know whether this information is public, the Sparadrap fund set up during the crisis has referred to the number of applications it has received, and the first category of applicants is made up of plasticians and plasticians, and one can obviously understand the mechanisms that lead to this situation. Therefore, indeed, it is all the difficulty, I agree with you, the collective agreements, the prerogatives of the social partners... It does not prevent, I know you are extremely close to social consultation, and I know how much you can also help and support this social consultation in order to achieve major advances for workers, and I urge you to do so in the second phase. Indeed, the FAP reiterated these concerns and participated in the consultation. She is particularly concerned because there will be the whole question of demonstrating this invisible work. As a matter of principle, proving invisible work is not possible. And so, indeed, this reform is intended to make invisible work recognised, and I think there will be a fundamental element to be highlighted, it is the question of trust, or in any case the defined framework on this invisible work, where this work is recognized de facto, and we should not begin to have to prove it in one way or another. That's what I'm worried about. For example, with regard to the reduction in the number of days to enter into this reform, we are very much in agreement, it is essential. On renewal, it is also essential, especially for this sector of activity, which must be able to remain an active partner and be able to be maintained in this reform of the statute. I therefore hope that we will be able to have more information in the coming days for this sector of activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u65	Madam President, Minister, the situation for recipients of unemployment benefits – whether they are temporary co-vides, artists or job seekers in receipt of compensation – continues to be a matter of concern with respect to the follow-up of their files at CAPAC. It is up to me from several sources that the problem is far from being solved. I have already asked you about the state of exhaustion of the teams and therefore the means available to them. I would like to address in parallel the way in which CAPAC is able to fulfil its mission. In your answer to my previous question, you indicated that CAPAC's windows had been reopened since June 23. However, these are only information counters, open only on certain days, from which users can only make an appointment or obtain certificates or control cards. This window is therefore not the place to resolve a problem in a file or to obtain specific answers. It is also regrettable that it is extremely difficult to reach the services by telephone, too long deadlines for an appointment – I am told that by mid-March the appointments were placed on May 5th! – and a "cat" that is not always reliable either: I am relayed cases where the cat stops purely and simply after a few minutes, and therefore without answers. Despite your reassuring response and the fact that the teams are doing their best, CAPAC is still not in a position to ensure its mission to the unemployed. Many payments remain blocked because people do not have the opportunity to complete their files, some of whom have been waiting for their allowances for many months. Minister, how quickly will CAPAC completely reopen its offices? Are you aware of the major problems that beneficiaries face in reaching out to services? What solutions are you considering? Can you send me in writing the number of cases processed per month since September 2021? How many of them remain one or more outstanding payments? Have more accurate data on the exhaustion of CAPAC agents (absenteeism, burn-out, etc.)( )? Can you communicate them to me? Of course, this is important information for us. Has the Covid Reserve been used to strengthen CAPAC teams since September 2021? When and for what amounts? How many full-time equivalents were hired?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u66	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, the CAPAC offices are indeed open. However, depending on the size of the office, the information desk is open between two and four days a week. However, the opening ranges continue to be gradually expanded. The appointments take place either physically or by videoconference. In 77% of cases, they are obtained within two weeks. I don't like the term, but CAPAC's market share is now estimated at 15.7% of the beneficiaries of unemployment benefits, compared to 11.83 % before the Coronavirus crisis. As a result, the workload has increased structurally. CAPAC is still recording more than 6,000 calls a day, which, you will agree, is huge. The percentage of final and unprocessed payment files received prior to February 1, 2022 is low. It should be noted that 70.9% of the payments received between September 2021 and February 2022 were made in the month for which the unemployment benefit was claimed, and 91.4% in the month in which the application was received. I will be happy to provide you with the requested data contained in the tables annexed to my reply. The rate of absenteeism is very low. CAPAC has put in place training for stress management and burn-out prevention as well as training in assault prevention. You will also find the data on the rate of absenteeism in the annex I will send you. In 2021, CAPAC received a budget of €1,858,000 to deal with the crisis and hire 60 level C contractors. Due to the current workload, a request for an additional budget of €1,237,138 for 32 employees has been submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u67	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I'll analyze the documents you'll pass on to me. I understand that CAPAC's market share, if we can say so, has evolved enormously. This is probably an aspect that points to the quality of the service generally rendered. You have provided interesting statistics on the month of receipt and payment of allowances. However, when you say that 91% of the allowances are paid within the month of receipt of the application, this means that almost 10% of the beneficiaries receive their allowances well after that period. I hope that the cases that have been relayed to me are isolated, but I believe that in reality this is not the case. I hear that teams are doing their best, that absenteeism is very low, which is a very good indication of how teams are supported. Thank you for mobilizing the covid reserve in 2021. For the 32 full-time equivalents and 1.2 million reported in your response, you did not specify a timing. But if I understand your non-verbal expression correctly, the information may be transmitted later. In any case, supporting these teams that do their best is a good initiative. CAPAC is the public service tool for people in need of an unemployment benefit. It is therefore essential, especially in the context we know, that this public service works well. You therefore have my support to respond to this request for a supplementary budget, given the increased attendance at CAPAC. I will certainly come back to you with a seventh question to take stock of this supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u68	Minister, since 7 March, the yellow barometer code has put an end to the mandatory nature of telework. But while employers and employees were looking forward to a return to their workplace, the portfolios took a blow. The recent rise in fuel prices is currently leading to difficult situations for many workers. Some are even forced to sleep in their vehicles in order to be able to limit the costs associated with their travel. At the same time, the recent rise in energy prices also has a significant impact on people who work from home. Minister, rising fuel and energy prices are putting pressure on workers; many find themselves having to pay for work. Are you considering the introduction of measures to support workers on long journeys by vehicle, as well as teleworkers working mostly from home? Is an increase in travel and telework allowances envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u69	Ms. Thémont, under the Act of 27 July 1962 and the CLC No. 19/9 of 23 April 2009, employers in the private sector are required to intervene in the cost of commuting by public transit. The employer's involvement in private transportation costs for home-to-work travel is not mandatory. However, such intervention can be regulated at sectoral or company level, which, in view of the current context of the explosion of energy and fuel costs in particular, seems to me to be something absolutely necessary. The employer's obligations with regard to reimbursement of the costs of structural telework are the result of CLC No 85 of 9 November 2005. Collective agreement 85 provides, as you know, that the employer is responsible for the supply, installation and maintenance of the equipment necessary for telework. In addition, the employer reimburses or pays for connection and communication costs related to telework. Reimbursement of telework costs must be agreed between the employer and the worker. In this context, employers may make use of a number of lump sum reimbursements of costs which are exempt from social security contributions and taxes, in particular for basic supplies such as water, electricity and heating. Discussions within the National Labour Council on the evaluation of telework and disconnection regulations are still ongoing. However, as you know, the government has taken steps to start reducing costs, including lower fuel excises and VAT on electricity and gas, as well as the granting of fuel checks. As far as mobility is concerned, which I have just mentioned, it was mainly a matter of reducing the excise duty on petrol and diesel and not applying the expected price increase to SNCB by offsetting it, of course. As far as teleworkers are concerned, they will benefit from the reduction of VAT on electricity and natural gas and/or an automatic reduction of EUR 200 for households that heat oil, propane or butane.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I welcome the measures taken by the government. I know you have something to do with it, especially with the fuel check. It was a famous battle! However, as you pointed out, as telework has become widespread since the beginning of the pandemic, the employer is free to grant the worker a tax-exempt telework allowance. However, according to my figures, whether you can confirm me or not, seven out of every 100 workers are entitled to this allowance. It's really very little. In addition, increased travel costs may also affect the home care and services sector. I am also thinking of domestic workers, who make many journeys by car which receive a travel allowance far less than the cost of their travel. The precariousness of the caretaker trades will therefore worsen. It will therefore have to be kept in mind. I know you're doing everything you can, but there's still work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u71	Minister, working conditions in the service securities sector remain difficult and expose these workers to high risks of musculoskeletal disorders. Indeed, a study conducted by ULB and INAMI states that working in the sector increases the risk of becoming disabled by 260%. Another study, conducted this time by VUB, shows a higher rate of lung disease-related deaths than in other professions. In the face of these alarming findings, INAMI and Dulbea advocate further analysis of the impact of this occupation on the health of these workers in order to identify new initiatives aimed at reducing the disability rate in the securities sector. Mr. Minister, you recently announced that there will be controls in 160 companies in the near future. What is the regional distribution of these enterprises? What criteria will be used to determine whether working conditions are safe and healthy? What penalties will be applied in the event of non-compliance with the rules in force? Will the results of these checks serve as a basis for further reflection on the implementation of preventive measures to protect the health of domestic workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u72	Mrs. Thémont, thank you for your question. During the inspection campaign organized by the Occupational Welfare Inspectorate, a total of 160 service title companies will be monitored, distributed linearly among the eight regional directorates in the country that will carry out 20 checks each. For this inspection campaign, a list of checks and a warning letter were drawn up, indicating the infringements found and the article violated. This warning letter must also be brought to the attention of the CPPT or, in the absence of a committee, to the trade union delegation or, in the absence of a trade union delegation, to the workers themselves in the undertakings. In the course of this campaign, particular attention will be paid to prevention and protection services at work, both internal and external, the comprehensive prevention plan and the annual action plan, risk assessment and preventive measures taken, in particular with regard to manual handling of loads, exposure to chemical agents and protection of maternity; also health surveillance, in general, training of workers, prevention of psychosocial risks at work, supervision by the employer and his supervisor, including prior visits to the workplace and checks on work equipment provided by the user, and provision of adequate personal protective equipment. The results of this campaign will be submitted to me and will also be presented to the social partners in the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. It is clear to me that the results of the campaign will be studied and will have a follow-up at legislative or other level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u73	Minister, thank you. I think it is really good news that this campaign and the various controls that will take place soon, in eight regional directions, if I have understood correctly. It is true that these domestic workers are often workers who already live in a very precarious situation. It cannot be accepted here that in addition to very low wages and flexible working hours, there are regular and sometimes irreversible health problems for some. It is important to ensure that the focus is, and you have said, on risk prevention rather than on health protection and monitoring. I think it is crucial, in any case to avoid long-term illnesses, but also long-term disabilities, especially in this function which is recognized as a difficult job. I think so. Is that already the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u74	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u75	It's a shortage, but it's not a pain. It is true that he should be recognized as a difficult job in the longer term. But in any case, it is already a good initiative. I will of course come back for the results of this study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u76	I'd say one induces the other, actually. Between scarcity and hardness, I guess there's some connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u77	Minister, when a worker dies, a specific scheme applies to his holiday allowance, other than to servants. The holiday allowance of a deceased worker, in order according to the law, first goes to the husband with whom the worker lived, second, if there is no husband, to the children and third, to any other person with whom the worker lived, for example a partner with whom the worker was not married but it can also be a friend. Fourthly, it goes to the person who met the costs of nursing and fifthly to the person who intervened in the funeral expenses. For those two last categories it is a limited payout. For the husband or wife or children living at the same address as the deceased worker, the award is automatic. The other categories must fill out an application form for the National Agency for Annual Holidays to obtain the holiday allowance, or part of it. Modern forms of society are gaining popularity, which can cause difficulties in implementing that law. As an example, I mention a situation in which some young people live together, cohousing to cover the rent. In the event of death, the young people with whom the deceased lived are entitled to that holiday allowance, instead of being entitled to the parents of the deceased, although the parents have often made payments, such as funeral expenses. That's causing a weird situation. Moreover, the holiday allowance due is not paid to the heirs, but to acquaintances with whom the deceased has lived together. It seems as if the legislation that determines this order of payout is no longer adapted to today's society. Nowadays, people with an ineffective relationship can also live together. Mr Minister, is the holiday allowance due after death automatically paid to the person or persons with whom the deceased was living, even if it is not a marriage in that form of residence, or do those persons first apply for it? Do you envisage a revision of the legislation on the payment of paid holiday allowances after death, so that it is adapted to modern forms of society? If so, how do you intend to implement this legislation? If not, why don't you want to do that? Can the payment of the holiday allowance payable to workers and servants not be arranged in the same way? Can the rules for workers not be aligned with those for servants, since there has been a single statute for a number of years? Can the parents of the deceased who, for example, have incurred costs, such as funeral expenses, do something to receive the holiday money due instead of paying it to friends or acquaintances with whom the deceased happened to have lived together?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u78	Mrs Lanjri, people living together must apply to the holiday funds to receive the unpaid holiday allowance from the deceased worker. Payment to the persons concerned is not automatic. The experience of the holiday funds is that people who share the same home never apply for the holiday money of their deceased friend, because they do not think they are entitled to it. If they do so, an investigation will be carried out into the composition of the household in the National Register and the actual family situation. The holiday funds therefore do not pay the arrears to these persons. People who have paid the funeral expenses will not be punished. It is therefore not necessary to amend the rules. The holiday allowance for servants is paid by the employers. Employers treat the payment of late holiday allowances to the deceased's heirs in the same way as the salary. On the other hand, for reasons of administrative simplification, several administrations are not looking for testamental heirs, but they are applying a procedure which, in most cases, makes it possible to automatically pay the arrears to the entitled persons. This is to the advantage of the holiday funds, the other administrations that apply this system and the beneficiaries and is not linked to harmonization of the status of the workers and the servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u79	Minister, you say that it does not prevent people who have lived together from applying. I have an example in which that has happened. It involved cohousing of three young men, one of whom died. After being asked by one of the cohousers, that money was paid out anyway. The parents must now try to prove by all means that this happened unlawfully. I therefore believe that it is necessary to amend the legislation in order to clarify them, or else at least other directives will have to be adopted. If this is not possible within the current legislation, then the legislation needs to be adapted. It is not possible for the heirs, in this case the parents, not to receive this holiday allowance, whereas they used to take care of their son and also paid the funeral expenses when they died, while someone who happens to live with the person concerned can apply for that money. That happened last year. I would therefore like to draw your attention to this problem. I am not talking about the one case, but about the fact that it can happen and that it already happens in practice, when you say that this is not the case. Will you handle that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u80	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u81	I would certainly like to send that to you, but my intention as a Member of Parliament is actually to regulate the problem in a generic and structural way. It would be good if we could arrange it for the person concerned, but it is not intended that only the cases that happen to arise through politicians should be settled. We will also have to deal with the matter in a structural manner. Perhaps you can answer via email what you want to do and whether or not you want to change the rules for this. I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u82	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u83	That's good, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u84	Madam President, Minister, people who receive unemployment benefit or are in the SWT, the former bridge pension, must ask for permission from the RVA to engage in voluntary work. If they do not do so, they may lose their benefit. The aim is to prevent the unemployed or people with SWT from working under the guise of volunteering. The Volunteers Support Point has already identified this problem, considers that there are many problems with this obligation to notify and calls for it to be abolished. It is also the case that the RVA may decide whether these persons are allowed to carry out a particular activity. Certain activities are not seen by the RVA as voluntary work. An example of this concerns someone who was not allowed to volunteer in the cafeteria of a football club. However, voluntary work legislation does not specifically define which activities can be considered as voluntary work and which do not. There are also very large regional differences between the different RVA offices. Depending on the RVA official, the treatment differs. In addition, questions may also be asked as to the purpose of this reporting obligation. This creates an additional threshold and makes it even more difficult to do volunteering. However, research shows that those who volunteer will take the step towards the labour market more easily. It is also possible to learn new skills and have social contacts thanks to volunteering. According to Support Point Volunteering, there is hardly any abuse. Nor is it the case that the unemployed no longer apply for a job by doing voluntary work and looking for a job. You indicated that you would submit this question to the inter-federal platform. Are you aware that there are regional differences in the RVA when granting authorisation for volunteering? Do you think that the guidelines on which the RVA's decision is based should be clarified and made more uniform? What are your views on abolishing the obligation to report on voluntary service? This does not mean that people will no longer have to be available for the labour market; they will also have to respond to an offer from, for example, the VDAB. They will also have to look for work and show that they are looking. Have you also contacted the interfederal platform? Has it made an opinion yet? When can this advice be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u85	Mrs Lanjri, the RVA guidelines set out in detail how different types of situations should be assessed. However, it is impossible to include all the different factual situations in instructions. The director of the unemployment office therefore retains the power of assessment in the specific case. I would also draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the individual application, there is also a system for obtaining a general authorisation in the case of an organisation operating in different regions. This general authorisation provides legal certainty that an application for the same voluntary service will be positively answered throughout the country. It is important to be aware that there are risks of volunteering being used as a cheap alternative to normal employment as an employed or self-employed person, without paying the social and tax contributions. The compulsory prior declaration is to be regarded as an important form of legal certainty for the unemployed who avoids that, if the voluntary service could not be accepted as such in the event of an ex post check, the unemployed person would be faced with the recovery of unduly received benefits. Finally, it cannot be ruled out that in practice voluntary work prevents normal employment. Flanders has asked whether this voluntary work can also be implemented in the employment path of the unemployed. This question is currently being discussed in a working group set up in the womb of the inter-federal platform. The findings of the working group will then be submitted to the platform and to the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u86	Did I understand correctly, Minister, that you have said that volunteering is an obstacle to normal work? Then I guess many don't share your opinion. Research doesn't tell us that either. Unless I've misunderstood you. Volunteering is no excuse not to enter a vacancy. You're nodding. So you agree with me. We have even seen the very positive effects of volunteering. Volunteering can be a stepping stone to normal work, but it doesn't replace it. Minister, the inspections should always be able to deal with abuses, with or without the obligation to notify them. I do not see the benefits of reporting the criminal offences in order to tackle them better. If there is a check at a certain employer and a person has reported that he is doing volunteer work, but that turns out to be not volunteer work but undeclared work, then there is abuse anyway. Reporting isn't gonna solve that abuse. I would like to ask you to consider, possibly at the discussion in the inter-federal platform, whether this notification is still useful. Put your energy somewhere else. Check for the abuses, but don't check for anyone who reports that he or she does volunteering on the neighborhood committee or the school. This is how people are demotivated, while volunteering is just a very positive thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u87	Madam President, Minister, like all other European countries, Belgium will take on its responsibilities to help the Ukrainian population, not only at institutional level through administrative and financial arrangements, but also by the population to receive refugees. It is an essential societal commitment and indispensable for a solidarity and human state, as many citizens have already shown in recent years. Of course, accompaniment by the organisations and individuals who will support the reception must live up to the political commitments of our country. Minister, can you tell us what is the situation with regard to the reception of migrants? I would point out that I am referring not only to migrants but also to refugees or persons who are still in the process of obtaining refugee status. In the case of private accommodation, can you confirm that the rights of the guests will be maintained, as in the case of situations of aid following floods?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u88	Mrs Cornet, I can confirm that the rights of the welcoming people will indeed be maintained. The momentum of solidarity with Ukrainian refugees cannot be discouraged. Thus, as with the measures taken following the floods, an unemployed person or a worker on a career break or on credit will not suffer a reduction in his or her allowances if he or she receives a refugee or a family of refugees from Ukraine. In addition, the full and temporary unemployed will be able, through voluntary activities, to support local and international associations working for Ukrainians, giving their time, without having to declare it. A communication to this effect was published on the ONEM website last week on 17 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u89	Minister, thank you. In your answer, you point out that these are people who welcome Ukrainians. Can you confirm that this answer is valid for all nationalities? Supporting those who opt for solidarity is essential. It is important to open our doors in the literal sense of the term, but also in our conception of hospitality. It is normal to welcome people who are fleeing the war – and there is not only one for the time being in the world. This fabulous momentum of solidarity, which concerns hundreds of families, has long existed. It is a very nice event to open the doors and it would be an excellent opportunity to open the minds even more in the face of migration. Perhaps you could complete your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u90	I share your concern to treat everyone in the same way. A person fleeing a conflict situation must be treated equally. The reception of Ukrainians has a special feature. They were granted temporary status on the basis of the European provisions. This is a precedent that had never been activated. However, I would like to join you in saying that reception and solidarity do not have a barrier or a border, and that everyone must be treated in the same way. But, as I said, specifically with regard to the reception of citizens of Ukraine and/or members of their families, the situation is somewhat different legally, given the special status granted to them on the basis of decisions taken at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u91	Mr President, thank you for your further reply. Of course, I understand that the legal situation is different. I also hear that you share my concern. I deeply regret that there is a difference between those accommodated according to their nationality and, at the same time, I am very excited that this possibility is open. Minister, I ask you to help make progress on equality between all those in need of protection. It's really important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u92	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u93	What are the further steps you will take? Wanneer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u94	Mr Segers, you therefore confirm that this is well reflected in your written question because it is always difficult for the services to know what to say in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u95	Mr Segers, the competence to which you refer, in particular to intervene in legal disputes to defend the rights of a third-country national residing illegally in Belgium who is or was at work, has already been granted to several bodies, including the representative trade unions. Five other organisations were contacted with the question of whether they wanted to take on this task by 15 March. Three of them responded positively. My administration has now completed the draft KB, so that it can be communicated to the co-signatory fellow ministers in the near future. Advice may then be sought from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u96	Thank you, Minister. I also asked you what added value you see in a fragmentation of competence. So I want to understand why. You can always convince me of the opposite, but I honestly do not see how it can be in the interest of people with an illegal and precarious stay that several authorities are competent to do so. I understand that there is already fragmentation, but that is no reason for me to create even more fragmentation. You have a unique opportunity here to create a single point of contact. As far as I am concerned, I am not yet making a plea for one organisation or another, which may even be a new organisation, all modelled according to your insights. Although I am pleased that the RB will be there, I would like to ask you to reconsider and seize that unique opportunity with both hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u97	Minister, we have just talked about trafficking in human beings as one of the most serious crimes, and the government agreement also states that the fight against trafficking in human beings is an absolute priority. Of course, we need strong inspection services for this. We have them to detect the exploitation and the networks. A year ago, I questioned you extensively about this. At that time, you acknowledged that in a large number of ECOSOC teams, the occupation is absolutely inadequate and that this puts pressure on cooperation with the FGP or the Labour Auditor to compromise the so famous multidisciplinary model in Belgium. You told me, among other things, that the current capacity is insufficient and threatens to reduce even further by retirements. However, you promised to allocate additional human resources to intensify the field controls. Recently, I asked you again a written question. This showed that the situation is even worse now than the already dramatic situation of a year ago. Even with the promised four additional forces from April onwards, which will need a decent run-in period... you are only at last year's level. This will, of course, keep you far from the so-called minimum scenario that you said was necessary to bring detection to an acceptable level. Of course, this will also keep you very far from the scenario you have chosen to be. So last year you promised additional staff resources. What's the status? Were they awarded in the last year? You write that it is the intention of the RSZ to increase the number of social inspectors, through additional recruitments, to the desired number over the next few years. However, what very concrete commitments are there against this? Will you do this year what you announced last year? Do you choose the minimum scenario or are you going for the to be scenario? What will you do in particular for Brussels, which you said last year was only able to deal with the tip of the iceberg and where the situation has deteriorated? Finally, in your reply to the written question from a year ago, you replied that the proactive controls were not possible in view of the capacity shortages in most provinces. Today we also need these proactive controls for Ukrainian refugees. Does this mean that, as the situation is even worse now, no proactive controls can be carried out to detect the exploitation of Ukrainian refugees in particular? You just referred to SIOD, and I'm glad you did, but of course you still need the powers to do so. You need ECOSOC and this specialization.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u98	Mr Segers, the government clearly has the ambition to strengthen the social inspection services. During the budgetary conclave, it was decided to recruit 45 additional inspectors from the social inspection services to work on different themes, including economic and social exploitation. These recruitments are currently underway. In addition, in the context of a potential Ukrainian refugee crisis, I will ask the government to further strengthen the ECOSOC teams with additional inspectors. A decision is expected by early April. I refer to my speech in the topical debate on the exploitation of Ukrainian refugees. From this, you have been able to see that the forces are combined, at all levels, to minimise the negative consequences of this unprecedented crisis in the interests of the rights of these people of Ukrainian origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your commitment. I am, of course, looking forward to the follow-up, especially after what has been decided during the budgetary conclave, among other things. It is absolutely necessary to get exploitation on the radar, stop exploitation and roll up the networks. This is the only way to ensure that our multidisciplinary model, which is so famous throughout Europe, remains an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u100	Dear colleague, workers in the arts and culture sector are above all passionate people. You know as much as I do. Nevertheless, they had to face great difficulties during this health crisis, as you also know, because their sector was hard hit by closures and restrictions. In order to help these workers, the Federal Parliament adopted the Act of 15 July 2020 which provides for important support measures: access to temporary social protection, white periods for access and maintenance of status or unlimited cumulation with the collection of copyrights. As you know, on my initiative, the federal government has extended these measures and has adopted complementary measures, such as increasing the status minimums. For the event, the government has also adopted specific aids in the form of reductions in social contributions for target groups. However, as in the case of Horeca, some workers in the sector have been forced to reorient themselves to other sectors of activity, which now leads to a shortage of labour, especially among technicians and technicians, as you mentioned in your question. I have no doubt, however, that when the situation stabilizes, a large number of workers will return to the culture path, especially as, as you know, the government is examining a reform to improve the social protection status of workers in this sector. As far as Fund 304 is concerned, this is a joint fund which is managed directly by the social partners in the sector. Of course, I have every confidence in these social partners so that they can mobilise the Fund in the best possible way. I am sure that, aware of this problem, the social partners will mobilise the Fund's resources to address this problem and this situation. We will, of course, discuss this issue with my colleagues in the Communities in the context of the forthcoming interdepartmental conference on culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u101	Minister, thank you. That's good news. I think it is important for this sector to imagine that all the partners and actors of the CIM Culture, as it is called, will put this difficulty on its agenda. I also hear you say, and this is a good thing, that technicians and technicians, since they are the subject of my question, will therefore be involved in the reform in the broadest possible sense. You know how much we will support you in these discussions. As for Fund 304, I understand that it is managed by the social partners. I can also look at how it can be more supportive of needs. On recovery, maybe we'll talk about it in a few weeks. In parallel with the reform, I think it would be really important to draw up a support recovery plan to enable the entire event sector to reprogram and be able to provide long-term structural guarantees to their workers. The law, as it was urgently passed in July 2020, did not necessarily address the needs of these workers, knowing that technicians did not necessarily ask for this law. It is likely that in the near future we will have to think about economic redeployment around the event by means of aids and guarantees, for example. This will be essential, if only for programming. The major problem for the time being in this sector is the difficulty of programming. I know that it is a wish that we all wish because it is always the question of the longest term and of the programming that is being asked. I thank you, however, for the positive signals you are sending.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u102	Mr Minister, the leave of mourning for people who lose a partner or a child has been increased from three to ten days. Several sectors provided for more than three days before the law was amended. There is now a lack of clarity in these sectors. After all, many sectors interpret the amended legislation in such a way that seven more days can be added to the four or five days already foreseen. This creates a great deal of uncertainty and differences of interpretation in these different sectors. Can you clarify that? Can you confirm that mourning leave is up to 10 days, unless there is a collective agreement at company level? Will you instruct the services to communicate clearly in these different sectors? This is because there are conflicts between the employer and the trade union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u103	Mrs De Jonge, unless otherwise agreed at sectoral or company level, the funeral leave shall not exceed 10 days. The social partners are free to conclude agreements granting additional days, just as the social partners are free to grant additional days for other reasons. If you think it is necessary, I am prepared to communicate with the social partners in this sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u104	That is quite clear, Minister. Thanks for that. There are signs that there is a different interpretation of this. However, it is important that there is clarity about this. Many companies go very far in granting small-scale leave, including maternity leave for women in large companies. So there is the example of Volvo. At company level, this may be decided differently, but the legislation is clear: up to 10 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic732x.u105	Minister, thank you. This concludes the session of the day. I wish you a good evening and tomorrow for the colleagues who will come to committee.
