ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u1	On 29 and 30 June there will be an important NATO summit in Madrid. We have an exchange of views on this matter today. In accordance with Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, an integral and concise report shall be drawn up of the exchange of views. My fellow Members' questions will be added to the comprehensive report. Following the introduction by the government, there will be a round of speakers from the political groups, with a maximum speaking time of 10 minutes per political group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u2	Mr President, as indicated, there will be a summit of NATO Heads of State or Government next week. As usual, I would like to inform you about the importance of this meeting, its agenda and the issues that are ready to be approved. I would also like to explain the decision taken by the government last weekend on the defence budget. But first, what are the stakes at this NATO summit? Last year, a summit was held in Brussels. This was the first time this took place in the presence of President Biden. The Alliance had clearly taken a fresh breath at that time. It was a sort of transatlantic reunion summit. The Allies had adopted a series of initiatives to ensure that NATO could continue to face all potential security and defence threats and challenges. The aim of the summit, which takes place next week, was to put into practice some of the initiatives that were launched in Brussels last year. This objective is maintained, but it is clear that the Russian aggression against Ukraine has given a new twist to this meeting. Support for Ukraine and NATO's reaction to the Russian aggression will be the focus of this summit. From the beginning of the Russian invasion in Ukraine, the Alliance displayed cohesion and determination in its deterrence. The key mission is to protect the territory and our people. NATO is not part of this conflict between Russia – responsible for aggression – and Ukraine, which exercises its right of self-defence of course. In addition, the Alliance wishes to avoid a geographical extension of the conflict. However, Ukraine is currently defending our values. His border with Russia is ours. Ukraine cannot lose this war. It would be a disaster. That is why all the States of the Atlantic Alliance have decided to help the Ukrainian people and government. Like many partner countries, Belgium provides important bilateral support to Ukraine, from a political, economic, humanitarian and security point of view. We will continue to do so. Faced with this open war in its immediate vicinity, the Alliance intends to adopt a new strategic vision, adapt its military posture and intensify its cooperation with its partners. That is what is on the agenda of the Madrid Summit! A first objective is the adoption of the new Strategic Concept of NATO. The previous one dates from 2010. At that time, Russia was considered a partner, there was no mention of China and only indirectly referred to climate change and social resilience. Since 2010, of course, the world has changed considerably. Even without the war in Ukraine, a thorough review of the Strategic Concept would have been necessary. It is clear that Russian aggression increases the urgency of this. The Strategic Concept 2022 confirms the alliance's commitment to the protection of its population and its soil, as well as to the protection of our democratic values and of the international legal order against aggression and authoritarianism. NATO remains a defensive alliance anchored in the collective defence as defined in Article 5 of the Treaty: an attack against one is an attack against all. This doesn't change, of course. What does change is that resilience is more closely interwoven with this collective defense. I am thinking of transversal dimensions such as climate security, technological innovation, cyberspace and gender. The inclusion of these broader themes in the Strategic Concept is essential for our country. The Strategic Concept also outlines the changed strategic environment in which the alliance operates. Russia is no longer a partner but the most direct threat to peace and security in the Euro-Atlantic zone. Terrorism remains the most asymmetrical threat to NATO in the Middle East, North Africa and the Sahel. China's coercive measures towards its own population and its strategic convergence with Russia are being denounced, but the door remains open to dialogue with China. The alliance's support for arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation is underlined. The ultimate goal of NATO remains a world without nuclear weapons, but the nuclear detachment remains the ultimate guarantee of our security. The Strategic Concept considers the European Union to be a unique and essential partner of NATO. The EU's efforts in the field of defence are welcomed. The need for cooperation between the EU and NATO and the recognition of the EU's contributions to security and defence is very important for our country. Belgium is calling for a clear European pillar within NATO to make the alliance more effective. In addition to adopting the new strategic concept, we must also agree on a new military posture for the Alliance. NATO's ability to successfully secure the defence and security of the Euro-Atlantic zone depends on its military power and political solidarity among the Allies. At the military level, NATO is in the process of transitioning to a new model of force that will make better use of the existing pool of forces following a dynamic and flexible deployment concept. It aims to strengthen the existing forward presence model, to pre-position more equipment and to further pre-identify the forces that will temporarily position them for exercises in a specific region. The third important issue on the agenda of the NATO summit is partnership with allies. The alliance currently has 40 partner countries and also has relations with institutions such as the EU and the United Nations. The Madrid Summit proposes an action plan to improve cooperation with our partners. Three partners in particular are exposed to an increased Russian threat and interference, namely Georgia, Moldova and Bosnia and Herzegovina. They will be offered increased support packages. They are also partners in geopolitical key regions such as the Western Balkans, the Middle East, North Africa and the Sahel. NATO will cooperate more closely with the so-called Asian-Pacific Four, which is Australia, New Zealand, Japan and South Korea, in areas such as innovation, cyber and resilience. Finally, Finnish and Swedish applications for accession to NATO will also be discussed at the summit. Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Finland and Sweden applied for NATO membership on 18 May. This has given rise to a debate on the security concerns of one of the allies, Turkey. The Secretary-General of NATO is currently working with the countries concerned on how to respond to these concerns. Belgium is in favour of the accession of Sweden and Finland, as soon as possible, on the basis of the sovereign right of countries to choose their own security arrangements. We hope that the accession talks can begin at the Madrid Summit. The Strategic Concept concludes with a number of clear and binding commitments on resources. In doing so, the Concept builds on the commitments made by the allies in the framework of the Defence Investment Pledge at the NATO summit in Wales in 2014. In 2014, Belgium, like all allies, committed itself to changing the defence budget to 2% of GDP by 2024. It is clear that this commitment has not been fully fulfilled. Moreover, the current context does not call for a downward revision of this commitment. On the contrary, it is an additional effort that is expected of each of the members of the Alliance, including Belgium. Our allies rely on our operational capabilities. These are already highlighted with our contributions to NATO, for example in Romania or the Baltic countries. We will continue to be solicited and we will have to be ready to take on our responsibilities. Our budgetary efforts will help us. The question is, in fact, quite simple. We would like to remain a member of this club of 30, which will soon include 32 countries. They are democratic countries that guarantee both collective defence of our territory and unwavering solidarity in the protection of our values and freedoms. If we want to remain a member of NATO, we must respect the rules of operation of the Alliance, the most fundamental rule being that everyone must participate in the functioning of our collective defence up to 2% of GDP. The government agreement was clear: the government will examine how to chart a growth path by 2030 in order to realign our defence effort with that of NATO's non-nuclear European allies. All European members, without exception, have taken the decision in recent weeks to increase their defence budget to 2% of GDP or more. That is why last weekend the government decided to approve a clear budgetary trajectory for the defence sector. In 2023 and 2024, the defence budget will be increased by a total of EUR 1 billion. Those additional budgetary resources will be used to increase the operationality of Defence. The government has also decided to increase the defence budget to 1.54 % by 2030, equivalent to 10 billion euro in additional resources. The military programme law will be submitted to Parliament by Minister of Defense Dedonder in the near future. Between 2031 and 2035 the defence budget will then increase further to reach 2% by 2035. It's a phased increase spread over 12 years. There are good reasons for that. If the allies increase their defence budget in just a few years, it will only lead to price increases. We must also take the time to strengthen the European defence industry in view of European weapons programmes which are less fragmented than they are today. An example of this is the cooperation we already have with the Netherlands today. This should lead to a greater economic return for the Belgian and European industries. At the time, we bought the F-35s because there was no equivalent European alternative. I hope that will be different in future purchases. The social return of our increased defence efforts must also be increased. I am thinking, for example, of the role that Defence can play in cybersecurity, and of a broader resilience agenda. These include the protection of our critical infrastructure, increased training opportunities in Defence, better deployment of Defence in climate and natural disasters, or a greater contribution by Defence to the improvement of our port and rail infrastructure in the context of military mobility. Weatherability or resilience is indeed wider than military investment alone. Finally, we agreed that the increase in defence budgets should not be at the expense of other important investments, such as climate change or social challenges. I'm glad that decision was made. The subject has been under discussion for years; we have known for years that we were not fulfilling our commitments to NATO. For years we were viewed as a country that was a bit freeriding and wanted the lusts, but could not bear the burden. The government has now put an end to this situation. You will have understood that the Madrid Summit will be, in many respects, historic. We go there with a clear vision of the future of the Alliance, as well as the tools that will enable us to activate it: the development of a new defence posture and the definition of a new strategic concept, which must help us to better understand the massive changes that have taken place in our strategic environment since 2010, at a time when our continent has been affected by an armed conflict of unprecedented magnitude since the end of the Second World War. The Alliance remains our best life insurance. It is therefore crucial to strengthen it. This necessarily requires awareness, as well as responsibilities, to be translated into strong commitments to our Defence, which demonstrate our solidarity with our Allies. At the same time, it is a matter of ensuring that these efforts consolidate the coherence of the European Allies to secure our continent. To this end, efforts are needed, as well as greater convergence within both the Alliance and the European Union. At European level, Belgium has also mobilised all its energy to promote European Defence initiatives. Indeed, the European and Transatlantic Allies must remain united in order to meet the new challenges and adapt NATO to a new environment. The decisions we are going to take in Madrid will make an important contribution to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. I am satisfied that there is an agreement and that you can go to the summit next week. I would like to emphasise that. Peter Buysrogge, Hendrik Bogaert and I have written a book about NATO. I don't know if I've already handed you a copy. I should do that urgently. We were allowed to present that in English at headquarters yesterday. The title of our book is:NATO, brain dead or ready for the future? We were triggered by the ruling in President Macron's Economist, in which he said NATO was braindead, following the invasion of Turkey in Northern Syria against so-called terrorists of YPG, but also against peshmerga, fighters who have done us a tremendous service in the fight against the IS. I was there when I was in the government myself. It was impressive to see how our Special Forces worked with the peshmerga in the fight against the IS. We must never forget that, not even in our solidarity with that people. That has triggered us to put some things on paper and to think further about it. In that process, which we started two years ago, when we look at where we are today, primarily triggered by the war in Ukraine but not only by it, we have actually taken steps forward with NATO. NATO is stronger and more united than it was two years ago, five years ago, than it was ten years ago. That is in itself positive. If the coalition agreement states that NATO remains the cornerstone of all its concepts, including the nuclear doctrine, of our collective defence of the West and therefore of Europe and of Belgium, then I agree with that. I also know that this was also your merit in writing your coalition agreement. That you can go next week is a good thing. I wish you every success. It will be a very important summit, the most important summit in many years, with a new Strategic Concept. The old one was really out of date. Russia was still seen as a strategic partner and China was not mentioned by a single word. I can't do that anymore in this day and age. It had to be updated. I hope that an agreement can be reached on a text. I also hope that Finland and Sweden will be able to obtain the green light for accession in Madrid. I do not know if I have any vain hope, because I know that it is still difficult with Turkey, but I hope that they will get out. It just so happens that European MEP from Sweden, Charlie Weimers, sat at our conference next to the Turkish ambassador to NATO. They had a nice conversation there after the book show. I hope they get out, that would be good. I don't think Finland is a problem. Finland, however, will only become a member if Sweden joins, it will not come alone. Sweden is still an issue for Turkey. I have a number of questions and, above all, a number of comments on the content. The 2 % is the point in your agreement that speaks most to the imagination. That 2% is now reached, albeit in 2035. May I interpret that effectively, Prime Minister? The first thing I saw, after all, was a tweet by Ecolo who said that this is nothing more than an intention to move to 2 % in 2035. Their absence here probably also says a lot, I don't think anyone from Green or Ecolo is present. Is there going to be a concrete proposal, some sort of STAR plan 2, in this legislative period, to set a budgetary path to 2035, so that we can achieve that 2%? Isn't there going to be a budget line knocked off in the government? Mr Bouchez says that he would have preferred it in the law. Isn't there gonna be a law? You say you're going to file a military programing law in the next few weeks. It has already been tabled, Mr Prime Minister, and you should know that. The Minister introduced it yesterday and we will discuss it further next week. I have one amendment to that, namely that there should be a path to 2%. The strange thing is that, in order to increase development cooperation to 0,7% by 2030, there will be a budgetary trajectory in the law. So you had to accept a number of compensations in exchange for the 2%. One compensation is, I assume, requested by the left side of your government, to set the budget for development cooperation in the law at 0,7% by 2030. You had to promise that. Of the 2 % by 2035 in the law is no good. Did I misunderstand that? I would like to have some explanation on this. Mr Bouchez is concerned and I am, of course, worried. I'd like to get some clarity. What will happen to the statement by the Ecolo secretariat, but also by Mr Gilkinet? The party is one thing, but here it is about the vice prime minister. Is it merely repeating what Mr Di Rupo has already done in 2014, namely a promise with which we have actually done nothing? If that is the case effectively, then it is an empty box. Could you give us some explanation on that? There was another Ramstein group last week. I understand there are no arms supplies at the moment. Am I wrong about this? Anything planned? The Ukrainian people and the army of Mr Zelensky urgently need additional support. There was the somewhat annoying affair with the howitzers. That wasn't the best time, but finally hitting them on the right side of the battlefield, albeit not by our buy but probably by the British buy. That is still not quite clear. Are there any specific plans? Can you announce a little more about this in Madrid, or is it just words? One of the concessions you have had to make is the participation as an observer at the Vienna Conference on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons at the moment. What diplomat is there? Is that just a diplomat or is there a member of the government or a cabinet there? The participation in that conference also means that we share the costs. We also have to pay the bill. How much is that invoice? You say that this is not true, but I heard that yesterday. Can we get a look at this? Of course, our participation in Washington is very poor. However, we are not the only ones, you can always say that the Netherlands, Germany and Norway are going too. I'm certainly not a fan of our participation. What's that gonna cost us? I have a few more questions about these additional conditions. You have had to accept that there will be no additional increases in this legislature, while maintaining the target of 1.54% by 2030. It also concerned the creation of an industrial defence council. I assume that this is not a problem, but the question is whether the Regions and the Communities will be involved, because there is, of course, a lot of economic potential there. You say you want more economic return for our companies. That's what I like to hear, absolutely. However, we must agree on Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We've never used that article before. That article can be used to protect our own industry. The French and the British do so all the time, so do the Germans, the Italians and the Spanish. We never do that, we always want to follow the rules perfectly. Are you going to activate Article 346 in certain purchase files and development programs, if you want more return for the Flemish and Belgian companies? I find it interesting to discuss this further. There is also talk about setting up a Committee on Social Mobility within Defence, introducing the 3D-LO strategy, including more expenditure under Defence, more aid to the nation and so on. I don't have a problem with any of that. The guaranteed path to 0.7% for development cooperation, I have already asked. A number of conditions are understandable, others need clarification. I am therefore particularly asking for more clarity about the intention/agreement. What exactly does that mean before 2035? Isn't it a cat in a bag? Is there going to be a second programme law, or is there going to be a budgetary trajectory for Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u4	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Minister, I do not have the experience of my predecessor in the knowledge of NATO. Too bad Mr. Franken's party has never been in charge of defence! Prime Minister, I would like to welcome the decision taken in due time. It is a balanced, prudent decision and it is conditioned by its long-term nature, so it will also be adaptable over the course of events that will undoubtedly take place by 2035. I believe that this is a decision that does not give way to the pressures that have been put on our country for a long time, but that are further amplified today, at this time, by recent events on our continent. The reactions are sometimes dictated by emotion and it is always very bad counselor. I have heard elements in your presentation that remind me of many other presentations that have been made and that are somewhat part of a constant NATO approach that wants to become the world's gendarmerie, knowing, fortunately, the African continent that is very important. This decision, Prime Minister, Minister, is therefore not the victory of each other. It is the victory of all, it is a balanced compromise that will have to be explained to the people. It is a balanced compromise that also incorporates dimensions other than the only dimension of defence. It also speaks, somewhere, of cooperation and assistance to the Nation and civil society. It will be necessary to explain to the public that this decision extends the important efforts already made since the beginning of this Parliament, notably by the Minister of Defence and by the government as a whole. This decision is also explicitly conditioned. It confirms the cautious statement made by Mr.Di Rupo in 2014. He had no commitment to that. We were in routine business and the case was forwarded to the next government, which obviously did not follow up on it. It is this government that is making courageous decisions to get us on this path to the 2% as set out in this part of the government statement that I had the pleasure, along with others in this room, to negotiate. The present government was to take over the torch of what had been said in 2014 after an interlude where Defence has been treated much less well than it is today. I am not going to confront the specialists in this room to recall all the measures that have been taken with regard to personnel in particular. We must never forget, in fact, that the first wealth of a department such as Defence is first of all its staff. As has just been said, there is no point in having vehicles if there are no drivers to drive them. This decision therefore does not in any way call into question the decisions that have been taken. They are important – as you have pointed out on many occasions – to relieve the population who suffers from successive crises that cause uncertainty, anxiety, anxiety on a daily basis, but especially for the future. The decision therefore takes place over time and is realistic. If it is realistic, it is also credible. There is no point in pretending to announce and make promises that we will not be able to keep. There is no point in spending, sometimes uselessly, on materials that do not have trained personnel to implement them and to reach this figure of 2% that has been repeated for so many years and that now comes back to the pace of events. To talk about these rankings that say that Belgium is the worst student in NATO, they're bullshit. Indeed, these rankings do not take into account all our efforts as a nation hosting NATO infrastructure. Nor do they take into account the quality of our commitments. Belgium has never been taken in default of solidarity in NATO operations, provided that it is covered by UN decisions. We have always been present, from the beginning to the end of operations. We were often the first in the field and the last to leave. We saw him again with Kabul. Our field presence lasted 20 years. We have to call him back. NATO thinks about it and then forgets it. Clearly, quality, flexibility, expertise and the availability of our staff should be included in these rankings. These would then be real qualitative and quantitative rankings of our commitment made without any defect since the creation of NATO, of which we are a founding nation. The conditions are also important because they aim at greater integration of defence companies in Europe and their impact. The problem is that it takes time. European defence companies do not exist. We can't make agreements between ourselves. There I have some disagreement with your remarks, Prime Minister, about the F35s. We didn't buy the F35s because we had to buy them, but actually, there was nothing else on the market. However, the French offer, which was quite consistent and fully part of a European defence strategy that provided for contacts with the Netherlands and France, was rejected – Mr Ducrame will not deny it. We couldn't accept that. We had to honour promises made by Mr. De Crem and then Mr Vandeput, buying American F-35 aircraft that everyone criticizes. Another important element is the integration of 3D (defence, development cooperation and diplomacy) which we voted unanimously here. This is not the first time we've talked about a European defence. We have been talking about this since 1999 and your chief of staff can very well attest to it because he was one of the privileged witnesses of this policy led by successive Verhofstadt governments. There has been a lot of fighting and, each time, it has been dynamite sometimes by the British, sometimes by the new arrivals within NATO and at the level of Europe who sometimes pretend that they are in a collective and European solidarity approach but are not because they have other objectives and concerns. The enthusiasm for European Defence is probably still great – it is to be hoped – in our founding countries of Europe, but it is not the same enthusiasm that we see in some new NATO countries – and it is certainly not the case either of the countries that may one day join this NATO and European structure. Yesterday, at another meeting, I welcomed your caution in this regard and that of the Belgian Government. There is also this priority for human beings and peace, as well as the problem of the inclusion of strategic thinking. The minister, on her arrival, made this strategic council and conducted a reflection by involving businesses more closely and trying to ensure that there are balanced impacts on our regions. There is no point in putting the Regions on a strategic committee if the benefits always fall on the same side. It is unbalanced and what is unbalanced in a society never lasts long. I therefore believe that there is an approach that integrates businesses, provides for the association of the Regions and is pragmatic enough to answer the questions. There is therefore also a need for better collaboration in terms of training. When will we have a European Military Training Academy? We have been advocating this for a long time: if our officers and non-commissioned officers were trained together, there would be less duplication and multiplication, less unnecessary spending. This also applies to research, which you mentioned. Then we have to think about it, planning and not suffering. We are not going to make mistakes of the Second World War again, where we believed that, because the Maginot line existed, the Germans would never invade France. Sometimes we reason with equipment designed to respond to old conflicts, whereas today it is cybersecurity, the communication war, fake news that must be taken into consideration. In addition, the civil dimension must be integrated. I have just talked about the 3 Ds, through cooperation, but if we really want to integrate everything that is already part of the Defence, we have to integrate B-FAST into the Defence community. B-FAST has been the prefiguration of what you are advocating today: the collaboration between the Prime Minister, Foreign Affairs and Defence to respond urgently to concerns of the civilian population both outside and within the country. Perhaps we need to push the reasoning further and correct the dismantling, the destruction of our Civil Protection in Belgium by the previous government and integrate it upstream and downstream of the Defence. Often, it is the same equipment, staff that has good training. This would allow people to transit before entering Defence and, on leaving, it would allow our soldiers who are in reserve and would like to remain active to train people. It is a budget of almost half a billion that is actually being spent by our government on internal and external security. I invite you to put these concrete proposals on the table. Many are already under construction. The Minister of Defence's program was presented and will be discussed next week. It contains many concrete points that complement the balanced decision that everyone should defend, the majority as opposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u5	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your presence in our committee and for involving us in the pre-briefing. I hope that we will also have a debriefing afterwards on what was all discussed at the forthcoming very important NATO summit. There, among other things, the main security threats and the long-awaited and much-needed plan to adjust the strategic concept, the blueprint for NATO's positioning on our security interests in general with the necessary military and political responses, will be discussed. You have briefly explained the agenda. First of all, I would like to talk to you about the Swedish and Finnish accession to NATO, which is on the agenda. Both countries state that they wish to join NATO without delay and therefore break away from their long-standing neutral attitude. The reason for this is, of course, obvious. It has to do with the Russian invasion of Ukraine immediately. Their accession has of course been in the air for a long time, but is now being discussed in a very concrete manner, although Jens Stoltenberg, the Secretary-General of NATO, indicates that there is no deadline at the moment. What is expected of next week's summit in this area? If the Finns and Sweden join - this seems to be quite possible today - it will require a number of logistical and budgetary efforts in the alliance. Sweden and Finland, but also other European countries are already raising their budgets enormously. Even though you have made a declaration of intent, despite what Mr Flahaut said, we remain behind. We are still closing in on our budgetary efforts. You have explained the Belgian position, but I would like to hear from you what you expect with regard to the accession procedure. Will it be discussed now? Or what deadline is set? How do you see the impact of this accession on the budget resources of the alliance in general? After weeks of negotiations, Turkey still strongly opposes the accession of these countries. In fact, the country uses its blackmail policy, as it does in other areas. There are a number of measures that could be taken by acceding countries regarding the presence of the PKK and the like. I don't have to explain it to you. What will be the Belgian position during the discussions on the hostage situation that President Erdogan is still holding as regards the possible accession of Sweden and Finland? How do you see that evolving and how will we behave with regard to the Turkish attitude? As far as structural defence efforts are concerned, white smoke has recently emerged from the nuclear cabinet on the increase in the Belgian defence budget. At least a declaration of intent has been agreed within the Vivaldi government to reach the NATO standard of 2% by the year 2035, no longer by the year 2024. We are therefore hopelessly behind in previous commitments. Nor is the increase legally anchored, unless you contradict me immediately, which is the case for the OECD standard of 0,7% for development aid. Additional conditions are also laid down for the increase in the defence budget. Investing in Defence must not be at the expense of the climate, we must have a share of critical infrastructure, such as wind farms, there must also be a proper social and economic return for society and there must be greater integration. That is in globo the package of conditions that you have linked to the intention to increase the defence budget. Kwatongen would say that you've either taken a roll or taken a hostage. I will not say those words, but I would like to ask how you look at this green-red compromise in your government in terms of defence. Could you explain the terms of this public committee meeting? How do you link investments in climate policy directly to investments in security? How will you make that budgetary bulwark in these times of economic crisis? Why is the budget for development aid legally anchored and is the effort for our defence, our security tout court, not anchored? In other words, what happens with regard to the engagement after 2024? How will you secure this now or will you leave it to the future governments? I should hope not. A third question with regard to Ukraine, the NATO Secretary-General spoke about stepping up military cooperation with and support for Kiev. The summit will discuss how Ukraine can be helped in the long term. For example, NATO wants to help Ukraine switch "from Soviet equipment to modern equipment." The Alliance also wants to increase interoperability between NATO and Ukraine. I know that this is not the issue right now, but I would like to ask you how you frame it in a possible Ukrainian NATO membership in the longer term. Can you explain Belgium's attitude on this matter again? I also refer to future arms supplies. Is there currently a commitment from Belgium to Ukraine or not? I would like to hear your views on this. As far as the defence budget is concerned, I think we can conclude that not much more is happening at the moment than what was promised by then Prime Minister Di Rupo in 2014, and we see that this is being repeated without a firm commitment. Mr President, I shall leave it at that for the time being. The questions I have tabled will be annexed to the integrated report, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u6	Prime Minister, Madam Minister, before I ask you about the statements that you would like to share with us this morning, I would really like to thank the President and colleagues. Indeed, on the question of NATO, we have already been able to have a good exchange in this Defence Committee, as a foretaste of your coming today, Prime Minister. We were also able to receive the opinion of our ambassador to NATO. We have been able to debate motions for resolutions which we have put to sleep for one or two weeks. I must thank Mr Franken in this regard. We have done so in order to allow the government to complete its discussions on this issue with regard to what we are talking about today, the Madrid Summit. Prime Minister, there is something that you did not discuss this morning. This point will still appear at the Madrid summit. That is the question of the budget. We know that in 2021 there was a plan to expand NATO's budget. What about it? What is our position on this point that will be addressed? There is also the demand for the Eastern prepositioning of long-term troops. We are not talking about an important passage in Estonia or about our presence in Romania today. We're talking about a NATO demand to have troops in the East in the longer term. There is obviously the Strategic Vision. You spoke to her and I thank you for that. You point out an important element, Prime Minister, in your explanation today in the House. It is the will to ensure the European position, the European pillar within NATO. Let us say this: there is the transatlantic link, the link of Western values too, but American interests are not European interests. It may therefore be useful one day to formalise and further structure the European position within NATO. Perhaps this could come from Belgium. There is also the question of enlargement. You spoke out. You said that our position was clear on enlargement to Sweden and Finland. It will therefore be an extremely important summit with all these issues. Thanks to your agreement with this government, you are not going to land in Madrid in Adam's suit. I am not talking about you, Prime Minister, I am naturally talking about Belgium. I wouldn't dare! But that was what it was about. It would have been quite unworthy to present us, while we are on the list of countries according to their budgetary investment in defence (in front of Luxembourg), at the Madrid Summit without any frank intention, and without the agreement that you have been able to make and which must be stressed. It is important and gives important investment prospects to catch up. The European average of non-nuclear countries will be 1.83 in 2024. So we're already behind schedule as we try to catch up with him. We heard from the Minister of Defence yesterday about the STAR project. It is clear that the will is to reach 1.54% of GDP by 2030. This is a step in the right direction and corresponds to an annual Defence budget of $6.5 billion. If we really have to reach 2% between 2030 and 2035, the budget would be between 9 and 10 billion. It is a big budget burden and, to be clear, I do not know whether future governments will be able to really realize the commitment we are making today because we have the largest investment share for the period 2030-2035. If that goes in the right direction, we will see if we can give concrete effect to the commitment you are making today. Prime Minister, you know that I am one of your greatest advocates at the Francophone level. I am a member of the legislature and the party has not yet completely merged the legislative and executive branches, so I will allow myself to ask you a number of traditional questions that echo our role of parliamentary control over the executive. You have pointed out an extremely important element for us liberals and reformers: this commitment to defence must certainly not be made to the detriment of a number of other essential investments in climate, societal and social terms. I would nevertheless like to know, in relation to the extremely important negotiation that you have conducted, whether this agreement provides for budgetary increases for a number of other departments - social, climate, SNCB, etc. I believe that in terms of transparency, it would be useful to know the overall agreement and whether this increase and direction in defence have seen budgetary increases for departments other than that related to defence. I naturally want to join my colleague and friend André Flahaut on another point - perhaps not on the fact that Elio Di Rupo showed in 2014 the path we are taking today, like a visionary - and to agree with him on the question of investment in the F-35. Given NATO spending, have you considered investing to acquire more F-35? Indeed, it is the planes we have today and it is with them that we have to work. Unfortunately, Dassault had withdrawn from the proceedings. I say "unfortunately" because I would have preferred a European agreement. Madam Minister, on the basis of the 2030 to 2054 commitments and the direction you are taking with the government for 2% in 2035, we will be able to dispose more precisely of the investments that this will take in view of NATO's demands for fighter aircraft, frigates, drones, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Beyond this direction, are you going to give us a number of clarifications in relation to the needs and demands that are formalised by NATO and that are likely to come back to Belgium at the Madrid Summit? I conclude by simply stating that the government agreement, 2% in 2035, was the proposal of the Reform Movement. You'll remember that. We tabled a motion for a resolution which, in the end, was the agreement on which you were able to land. I thank you again for the strength of your commitment, Prime Minister, because without you and your stubbornness, I do not think we would have had this agreement. But next time you have a problem, call us!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u7	Apparently something beautiful is blooming. [[(Hilarity]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u8	Mr President, Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I am quite struck by the absence of the Ecolo-Green Group. There is some ambiguity about this agreement on the 2% increase in GDP. We have heard conflicting opinions. I take it that the absence of today expresses an ill-being in relation to this agreement. Worse than an evil-being, it is not to come to assume it in committee and defend its position. I regret that absence. I would have liked to hear the Group of the Greens on this 2% issue. This agreement brought the Defence budget to 2% of GDP in 2035. My group, my party, opposes this agreement quite firmly. Why? First of all, because it is an incomprehensible agreement in this context. This agreement has been justified by the context in which we are today: the context of the war on European soil, the Russian aggression against the Ukrainian people. In this context, this process has been accelerated to reach this 2%, which is a demand well ahead of the current situation. This is a request made by the Americans for quite a long time, which NATO is trying to impose on its various members. The current context has only accelerated the process. It was used to accelerate this process, but that will and vision existed long before. I am talking about an incomprehensible context, because what was that decision that needed to be made at this time? Is this the decision the public expects today? As we face a major economic crisis, while the population has been suffering from unprecedented inflation for decades, urgent measures must be put in place, budgets must be made available to respond to rising prices, to respond to the decline in purchasing power. All these people are suffering every day and are unable to make ends meet. What do we do when they've been waiting for months? We are proposing an agreement to increase Defence's budget to 2% of GDP. I am surprised, moreover, at the timing of this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u9	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u10	Mr President, I have not interrupted any speakers. I would like to be able to conclude my speech. We're not in plenary, we're in committee. I would have had a lot to say in the speeches of the various colleagues, but I remained discreet and waited to speak. I would like everyone to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u11	Mr Boukili, although it is not intended to have an extensive exchange of views here, I am not in favour of a sterile debate where there is no reply. That is why I would like to ask Mr Ducarme to replicate very concretely and punctually.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u12	Mr. President, I thought it was an exchange with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u13	The idea is not to interrupt you, Mr. Boukili. Since this is a debate, I should like to ask for the floor. I simply wish to draw your attention to the suffering of the Ukrainian people. I can hear you talking about our energy problems, the increase in bills, but Ukrainians are at war and dying. If we increase our defence spending, it's because there's a stake. You know that part of this budget is linked to weapons that we have sent to Ukraine. Let us not forget the suffering of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u14	Mr President, if I made a comment earlier on the interruption, it is because I have not been allowed to interrupt in exchanges of views such as this one. The rule is not clear enough about this. I would like to express this astonishment: the people are waiting for strong decisions to respond to a rather new situation of crisis and suffering and a counterproductive agreement is presented. Mr Ducrame, when you talk about supporting the Ukrainian people, we should start by agreeing on the best way to support them. Even if this translates into the sending of weapons, I do not see how NATO member countries should increase their current military budget in order to be able to help Ukraine against Russia. Indeed, the arming budget of NATO forces currently represents 17 times that of the Russian Federation. How can you justify that going from 17 to 18 times their budget will make a fundamental difference? That's the second element. This increase has a social cost. It has an impact as money is not invested in health, education, wage increases and energy bills. That is the question today, when as a NATO force, we already have a budget 17 times higher than that of Russia. I don't understand how this bugset increase would bring efficiency. A question arises. Why has this decision become so priority and indispensable when other decisions are just as indispensable, if not more so? And you didn't make those decisions, Prime Minister, but this one you made. You've reached an agreement on that. All parties managed to reach an agreement. When we need to increase military budgets, there's no problem, but when we need to meet people's needs, we're terrifying. It's a mark of your government, Prime Minister. I wonder why this agreement should be reached. Where are the pressures coming from? Is the pressure coming from the fear of going to Madrid and saying: "No, we do not agree on the 2%."? It is so much more important to arrive in Madrid and to show NATO white feet by saying: "Look! We too are moving towards 2%." It is so much more important to you than everything else, and I do not understand that, Madam Minister, Prime Minister, especially since we have an experience with the Americans. When they have demands vis-à-vis NATO countries, we have seen what this has given with the F35s. This contract is a fiasco! It becomes more and more expensive every day. These planes don't work, they have a lot of faults and are criticized by everyone. We don't even know what it's going to give when they're operational or how long they're gonna hold. The infrastructure exceeds the planned budget by double or even more. What is going on with this policy? What is expected of this policy? History has shown us that in this logic, when blocks develop, their first reaction is to invest in armaments. But history books criticize the arms race. We have a critical view of this story. We don't want to relive it and that's not what we have to reproduce. Today, however, we do the same thing. It's an arms race, whether it's on one side or the other. NATO's military budget is 17 times higher than Russia's, and this budget increase continues. I don't understand that, Prime Minister. Is the arms race considered a danger to peace in the world? If so, why do we do it? Is that how we get peace? As you will have understood, Prime Minister, we believe that this agreement is both an incomprehensible agreement in terms of timing but, above all, ineffective in terms of the objective of ensuring lasting peace. For this reason, we oppose this agreement. Unfortunately, we are the only ones in this Parliament who oppose it. I regret that. And, as I said at the beginning of my speech, I would have liked to know what changed the Greens' opinions. Why did they give in to this pressure? That's a shame. Today, what we need is to develop a peace movement, a movement that finds new solutions. The methods used today have led to massacres all over the world and unbearable situations for the people who still suffer from them. We need to put in place another vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u15	Mr President, back to reality. Prime Minister, it's a good thing there's an agreement. The summit in Madrid, where you will be representing our country next week, is very important. This agreement is actually a second agreement, which is sometimes forgotten. The government previously concluded an agreement on 1.55 % with 2030 horizon. That was already unseen at the time. The previous government opted for 1.24 % and finally for 1.3 %. This government opted for 1.55 % earlier this year. Now there is a second agreement and that is good. Let me briefly sum up the reasons for this. First of all, this is what we have to do. Earlier Prime Ministers of our country have said this, as previous governments have also knocked it off. Some people here call that a fetish. Mr Flahaut, I agree with you sometimes, I like to listen to your stories from the past and the like, but calling this a fetish seems dangerous to me. It would be of some pride if we were to take a position here to talk ideologically about all sorts of things and not make our financial contribution for years. After all, that's what you're saying. It is an interesting debate to continue in committee, namely whether we should not consider other parameters. Supposing that 2% is a fetish, as Mr Di Rupo did in Wales among others, is something to be very careful about. This government is doing what it has to do in the context of the agreements that have been made on this matter several times now and in the past. That was even promised. Secondly, this has not yet been discussed in the debate, but this is what is possible. The government's decision is what's possible, given the absorption capacity of our defense. Going faster tomorrow and the day after tomorrow throwing a bag of money on our defense is not in itself possible. We've got a huge outflow. Half of them will retire in the next five years. We have an influx of new recruits. Mrs Dedonder is very ambitious in that and we support her for 100%. However, it is not easy to bring all these people into an overheated labour market and guarantee sufficient quality to stay with the Defense Department. In addition, there will be massive new systems in the coming years. Everything that flies, sails and drives will be replaced in the coming years. The absorption capacity of Defense does not allow us to throw money very quickly and to provide answers. We must also take this into account. Thirdly, the agreement is what is budgetaryly feasible. I'm not saying that, the Prime Minister doesn't even say that, but our ambassadors say that. In the context of parliamentary work, an opinion has been delivered by our ambassadors to the European Union and NATO that the budget is not clear in order to speed up higher investment. The then Defence Minister said in a newspaper article in 2016 that NATO did not ask for 1.3 %, but that that percentage was realistic in the circumstances at the time. In current circumstances, 1.55 % is realistic, with an increase of up to 2 % by 2035. That's the deal we've reached. Fourthly, the agreement is well framed. It is not just figures that are being put forward; the 3 Ds, which we talk about so often, are also being glued together with members of the Committee on External Relations. European integration is absolutely essential. Belgium is a pioneer in this. The members of the Committee on Defence know that I am a keen supporter of even more cooperation, for example in the Benelux area. Unfortunately, we cannot buy enough European systems today; there are many in development and we will have to follow developments and enroll our industry in that logic. However, I am in favour of perhaps this is a short turn to follow the adage that if it is to fly, one has to buy American and that if it is to drive, one has to buy German, by extension European. In any case, I am satisfied with the framework which the Prime Minister has been considering for a very long time. I will conclude with two comments. First of all, as far as operations are concerned, rightly so, it is often about investments in material, which is also most appealing to the imagination. But thanks to the government - you absolutely deserve to be praised for that, Madam Secretary of State, there is also talk about staff. Operational output What are we going to do in the world with the Belgian Defence Agency also deserves due attention. Finally, contrary to what another party said about it, in the absence of any members of it here, we cannot discuss it now. We cannot keep the arms crossed until 2029 or New Year's Day of 2030 to determine exactly what we will do between 2030 and 2035. It's very clear. Next Tuesday, if I am not mistaken, we will debate and hopefully vote quickly on the programme law. It is good that Parliament will approve it soon. We will then have to start thinking rather quickly about the 2030-2040 period, which is a relative concept in politics. Anyone who makes it appear that that is not the case at all is mistaken, because we will. We will not do that tomorrow, next week, next month, and perhaps not even this year, but at some point we will have to look at what we will do with that extra budget from 2030 to 2040, what is on the market and what capacities we need. Personally, I'm moving two forward. In my opinion, the maritime capacities, my stickhorse, are immensely important. It is also stated in the STAR plan and in the expert report. We are building the entire North Sea with windmills. They form the power plant of the future and we must be absolutely capable of protecting and defending that critical infrastructure, the Prime Minister has already mentioned that type of infrastructure. In its recommendations, the Strategic Committee calls for more heavy firepower, which is also reflected in the STAR plan. The need for this is becoming clear in the context of collective defence and in the field of Ukraine. That's for the future. We were already ambitious and are now certainly in the run-up to the Madrid Summit and will have to be when we think about what after 2030 as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the explanation. The government has reached an agreement on Defense. You explained exactly what that means. In total, the government already decided to allocate EUR 11 billion of additional funds to Defence in the period 2022-2030. That's a huge investment in Defense. With the new decision you re-activate the growth path to 2 % investments by 2035. The government invests effectively in Defense; the motto show, don't tell certainly applies here, which we couldn't say in the previous government. The current government is doing much more than the previous one. For Forward investment in the Defense Department is certainly not a blank cheque. The conditions are equally important and they are unambiguous. I will explain two conditions on which we have hammered out. Firstly, there is further European cooperation and integration. The US is our main ally, which will continue to be so, but the defence interests of the European Union and the United States are often not the same, because the geographical position of the European Union is quite different from that of the US. The European Member States are now much more politically aware of this. This is a clear shift from the past few years. That is not a bad thing, and for us Belgium must support it. Secondly, for us, security is much wider than just strengthening the army an sich. For us, too, it is about strengthening resilience, the resilience of society. This also means protecting critical infrastructure in the areas of energy supply, communication, logistics and transport. It's also about cybersecurity. It is about helping the nation, such as the use of Defense in natural and climate disasters. That is a change in the policy vision, because, of course, defence is interpreted much more widely. This is also part of the strategic autonomy that the European Union is developing today. That's important to us too. Neither are defence for us seen separately from the rest of the foreign policy. It's not something that floats loose. Therefore, Belgium has been following a comprehensive approach since 2017, based on those three D's, defence, development and diplomacy. For Vooruit it was therefore important that the increase in defence expenditure was embedded in that 3D approach. For us, therefore, the Belgian development cooperation efforts had to evolve to the internationally applied standard of 0.7% of GDP in 2030. That is indeed in the coalition agreement. It is, however, a good thing that it is now concretely established that the ODA spending rate is rising and, according to that agreement, is higher than at the end of the previous legislature. This principle is taken into account in the presentation of the budget for the next two years. We welcome the fact that the solidarity note, which gives substance to the growth path, is now legally anchored. We are very pleased with that. The needs are very high when I look at development cooperation and humanitarian aid. Look at the humanitarian crisis we are experiencing today. Famine is even used as a weapon in the world and as a weapon against our society. Secondly, we also need diplomacy. We mean not only the strengthening of the Belgian diplomatic and consular networks, but also the content, especially in the context of the Ukraine crisis and certainly in the nuclear dimension. Mr Prime Minister, last week, in the debate with you, I indicated that there was another threat of nuclear weapons being used in the war with Ukraine. If these weapons were used against Ukraine, it would have catastrophic consequences. There would be a huge impact on our food systems, on the climate and on our health care. Uneasy citizens talk to me about whether Putin will not use his nuclear weapons after all. Our answer must not be that we do not know and hope that he does not, and that, if he does use those weapons, we are throwing away an even more powerful nuclear bomb. After all, policy makers also have political and diplomatic responsibility to ensure that such deadly weapons of mass destruction are never used. This means that we have at least a control strategy and that we have a responsibility to continue talking about arms control on the diplomatic stage. The fact that the European Member States today want to accept their diplomatic and political responsibility to talk about this does not affect our commitments as a member of NATO. So we are very pleased that Belgium is present today as an observer at the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. We also welcome the fact that, in fact, a like-minded group of European Member States, namely the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Norway, continues to talk about the concerns that live with the population. I'm sure it'll be appreciated. Prime Minister, it is important that we continue to engage in diplomatic dialogue with these four countries, to examine together the direction in which we will evolve in the future and to develop a common position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u17	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, I thank you for your presence with us to speak about this important summit. This is indeed an extremely important alliance for our country and the member countries. It is perhaps even historically the security alliance that rallied the most countries, during the longest period. We must be able to rejoice by saying that we are lucky in the face of the chaos and brutality that prevail in the world today. This alliance is therefore fundamental. Prime Minister, you recalled that it was a defensive alliance that defended democratic values in particular. I am therefore pleased that we can have a positive, constructive, proactive attitude to this alliance. However, I must admit that what you are proposing today with regard to defence spending seems to me to be a trompe l'oeil. We continue to have this cuckoo strategy that benefits from this alliance, but is not at the level expected. You rightly recalled that the first indicator of loyalty to this alliance was to contribute at the same level as others to security charges. We must not believe that other countries have no social stakes. We must not believe that other countries do not have climate issues, that they do not have employment issues. They also have to deal with all these issues, but they also know that the safety of their people is one of the top priorities they must be able to meet. As far as we are concerned, we are still not up to the level of contribution. You say that we are responding to the Alliance's request and the government agreement. That's not true! As you yourself said, the government agreement was aimed at reaching the level of the other NATO and European Union countries in 2030. That will not be the case. Our efforts will therefore remain less than that of the other European Union countries. In doing so, you do not respect the government agreement. In addition, we have a commitment that has not been made under duress. Di Rupo made a commitment to reach 2% of GDP in 2024. We are simply postponing this commitment of 11 more years in reality, while the other countries of the Alliance are making redoubled efforts today to increase their defence power. Indeed, contrary to what Mr Boukili says, we are disarmed from Russia. He claims that Russia would have a defence budget 17 times lower than that of NATO, but we know that Russia absolutely does not calculate as we do. Mr Boukili forgets that Russia is the world's first nuclear power, that it has the most nuclear weapons in the world and that it does not hesitate to threaten us with them. You always forget that, Mr. Boukili, in your calculations, which I think are very bad. Indeed, Russia hides its defence efforts. As I was discussing with NATO ambassadors recently, Russia is able to maintain two years of war efforts in Ukraine. As for us, our stocks are empty, Mr. Boukili! When we had to help Ukraine, we took what was on the shelves. There's nothing left on the Belgian Defense shelves! There are no more tanks, no more guns, no more air defences. Our frigates are underarmed. We divide by three the number of fighter aircraft that we will have: 35. Do you know how many fighter planes Russians own? They have 100 times that number. We're disarmed today. If Russia were to invade our territory, we would hold no more than a few hours. That's the reality. Indeed, we have to re-arm ourselves, to live up to the efforts of our Allies in the field of defence, and we will not. We have a trompe l'oeil agreement. Mr. Ducrame was talking about you not coming in Adam's suit, Prime Minister. I propose to him to read the tale of Andersen again with the emperor's new clothes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u18	Mr Dallemagne, when you tell us that I compared, I did not do so with Belgium. I compared it with NATO forces. Perhaps in Belgium there is a desert in terms of equipment, but we are part of a coalition that is NATO. When I compared 17 times, I did it vis-à-vis NATO. If one of NATO's countries is attacked, – you gave the example of Russia that would attack us – it is the whole organization that reacts. It is well written in the NATO Charter. I therefore do not see the comparison you make between Russia and Belgium, since this comparison is not necessary. I'm talking about NATO as an organization. If we talk about NATO as an organisation, NATO is far superior in terms of military budget compared to Russia. On the nuclear issue, we are in favour of nuclear disarmament by Russia and all nuclear Powers. To do this, you have to be active. We must act in that direction. Why has Belgium not yet ratified the treaty to remove nuclear weapons from its territory? It is in this sense that we must go if you want to stop the nuclear arms race. Your argument does not answer the problem I posed; I am sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u19	I suggest you go talk to Vladimir Putin first about nuclear weapons. I think that the only country in the world that today dares to shake the nuclear threat is Russia. I never hear you criticise Russia. The Belgian budget is what we are talking about today. If I understand you correctly, we would benefit from a security alliance, but we would not. It's the cuckoo's strategy again. We are in the hands of others, and we ourselves do nothing. That's your proposal. I do not have that definition of international solidarity, whether in this or in other areas, but we will have understood your point of view. As far as the budget is concerned, unfortunately we are not there at all. Indeed, we have extremely important problems. I have to admit, it's true. Like others, I find that the absence of Ecolo today is particularly scandalous. I have no other word. How should we understand it? Is this a disavowal? Is that a contempt? We heard the president of Ecolo, the day after their meeting last weekend, say that there is nothing new about their proposal. It's 2035 and there are six conditions. At the outset, the President undermined the agreement that had been reached within Vivaldi. I would have liked to hear him, or one of the Ecolo Members, today, explain to us what his exact point of view was. I think there is a real problem with this issue in Vivaldi today. I wonder if you still have a majority on this. Their absence and the fact that they have, the next day, undermined this agreement seems disturbing to me. Again, this agreement does nothing but postpone the decision of 11 years - we were 10 years old, we will have 21 - to make an effort that others made immediately and I regret it. I think we were expecting better and more from a founding country of NATO. The second point with regard to this defence alliance that protects democratic values is that we have a problem with Turkey. We know that. We have a problem and not just because it blocks the entry of Finland and Sweden when it knows that today we need more unity than ever. She plays on the fact that we needed this unit to try to de-strengthen it, weaken it and bring its own agenda. Moreover, Turkey is about to do exactly what Putin is doing in Ukraine in Syria. It is in fact preparing to invade a neighbouring country in a totally illegal and illegitimate manner, and in particular to weaken those who were and remain our allies in the fight against the Islamic State. I wish I had a statement on that from you. What is planned in NATO to ensure that one of its Member States does not do exactly the same kind of intervention that Putin is doing in Ukraine? When, in the European Union, Member States play with our democratic values, with the fundamental rules of the European Union, there are a series of mechanisms that come into play. What are the mechanisms that come into play at the NATO level? Are there any plans? To my knowledge, the answer is no. I think it is important that in the future NATO does not accept that all the member countries will definitely defend these democratic values and that there are political mechanisms because it is also a political alliance, as is often forgotten, so that these member countries do not detract completely from the values that we are supposed to defend. Mr President, this is the bulk of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u20	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you. You said two very important things. First, we have been failing to meet our commitments to NATO for years. This is now over. Then the Alliance remains our best life insurance. I can only agree with that. On paper, therefore, we can only welcome this agreement on 2%, and yet I share the perplexity of my colleague Dallemagne because we could fear that it is only symbolic and de facto, the absolutely irradiating absence of our colleagues from Ecolo-Groen is not reassuring in this respect. You stated that it was not a blank cheque and that the important thing is not just the amount but the way to achieve it. I therefore recall the six conditions laid down in the agreement, based on what has been said so far: more European integration, a better return on investment for the Belgian and European fabric, a better societal return in terms of cybersecurity and education, a focus on climate and societal issues, the integration of the concept of aid to the nation in defence expenditure and the development of a European framework that encourages productive investment. We have learned to be careful, with Vivaldi, for such agreements with conditionals and a great display in time. So many potential postponements, slippers, "if", that at the end of the day time and a form of chance become the arbiter, as for example the record of the non-exit of the nuclear. Therefore, diluting the decision in the dread of time and in the uncertainties of the future does not seem to me to be the wisest thing to do in a context as tense as Russia's threat to European countries today. In other words, the question can be asked whether, with these six conditions, you have not just given the next government the opportunity to completely emancipate itself from a commitment that has been crucial and demanded by NATO for many years. Although I do not doubt your intention, Prime Minister, there is nevertheless a question about your government: what is the real value of this agreement beyond 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u21	Mr Prime Minister, we too welcome the agreement reached last weekend. Clearly progress has been made, moving forward gradually, but this is the way it is in politics. Things have happened that have not been possible under previous governments. The Ukraine crisis was a starting point for this. What was not possible in the past has now happened, especially as regards the intention for the 2%. A clear deadline was set, namely 2030. There was a time table attached to it. There was more to it. Cyber security and the protection of critical infrastructure are key elements in this process. Another important element for us was coordination at European level, namely not doing anything double, but clearly agreeing who does what in a European context. These things were not possible in the past, but were now made concrete in the six conditions laid down. We believe that this is a step forward in our defence policy. As you know, I have for a long time proposed 0,7%, not as a naive world improver, but as Mr Pillen said in the context of the 3D approach. There is famine, there is poverty, and besides the climate crisis, there is also the world food crisis today. All this leads to a destabilised world that terrorist movements use and abuse, like smugglers and Russian mercenaries like the Wagner Group, who then cooperate with rogue regimes. So we have to do something with the 3D approach. Since the world food crisis is leading to poverty and famine, that 0.7% is needed to ensure that we can work on poverty reduction and thus on our global security. The legal anchoring of 0,7 % has been in place for a long time, but today the growth path has been set. This did not happen for the 2 % because it is quite recent. The target of 0,7 % has been in place since the 1970s, but it has only now been implemented through a growth path. I hope we don't have to wait that long for 2%. Another important element is the nuclear weapons ban treaty. I myself have been present in Vienna for the past few days, where we have an observation status. Mr Francken, we are indeed diplomatically represented there. We are present as an observer and do not intervene. Today 62 countries have already signed the Convention effectively. Together with Germany, the Netherlands and Norway, which the Secretary-General provides, we will observe there. I think that is a good thing. I have also heard a statement there that I will not forget, namely that no nuclear weapons have been used yet, is an unbearable lightness or luck. We know that authoritarian, imperialist leaders like Putin are capable of a lot. We may not be dependent on happiness, but we must go back to systems such as the nuclear weapons ban treaty, which states that nuclear weapons are banned and will no longer be developed and disseminated. That is a rather naive principle, however, if one is not going to verify it. That verification mechanism is lacking in the nuclear weapons ban treaty. Another important gap is that the nuclear weapons states are not yet involved. My question is how are we going to proceed? This is only recently, the diplomats have only just been informed of the fact that we have now become observers. How will this be completed in order to ensure that the nuclear weapons ban treaty is not a naive treaty but a treaty that works? I find it unacceptable that we depend on autocratic imperialist leaders who can ensure that nuclear weapons can be used at some point. I don't want to depend on the unbearable lightness of happiness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u22	First of all, about the commitment we make. The government is actually doing two things here that represent an important step further than those of previous governments. Firstly, we make the financial commitment of our plans clear and concrete. The previous governments have pointed the way. We indicate the target. I have the impression that some people do not know the English language very well. I've taken something that should be a neutral measure, the Oxford Dictionary. What does "intention" actually mean? What does the Oxford Dictionary say about intent? What you intend or plan to do; your aim. It is indeed our plan, it is what we will do. One takes as an example: He has announced his intention to retire. What does that mean? That means he's retiring. So there is absolutely no ambiguity in that regard. The Dutch translation is: "The defence budget will continue to grow with a view to achieving 2% of GDP in 2035." That's the translation of the sentence in that letter. There is no ambiguity about that, and I hope this is clear now. That was my first point. The second point is that we also need to be clear about how we will invest resources in Defence. In the past, we used a kind of spending target, but we want to continue our efforts towards European integration, so that we can get more value for money and better work together. There must be more economic return for our industry. After all, we get little back if many subcontractors are involved. There must also be more return for our society, because defence must be able to play a much broader role in this than has been the case up to now. We are therefore giving the necessary clarity to our allies. We spread these investments over time, but Belgium is not the only country that does this. Denmark spreads its investment until 2033 and Belgium does the same until 2035. So our decision is very reasonable compared to other countries. Mr Boukili, I cannot help but answer you, because you say things that are not correct. You say that this government has made decisions for Defence and that it has done nothing in other areas to help people through this crisis. You have to dare! We have taken three billion measures to help people pay their bills, and this weekend we decided to extend these measures until the end of the year, because it is necessary to give them stability. And you say the government does nothing to help people! Then you quote figures of Russian investment in defence and say that Europe's military budget is 17 times more. Not at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u23	I talked about NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u24	These figures are not correct because you do not take into account the fact that, for Russian investments, a purchasing power correction element in Russia makes a fundamental difference. You explain that these investments are useless. If, today, some NATO countries have not been invaded by Russia, it is because of their NATO membership. In today's world, if you're alone, either you're afraid, or you're asking to become a member of NATO. Today is part of a collective protection mechanism like this the best way to guarantee peace. Anyone who questions that concerns me very much. This means that the reasoning of the PTB-PVDA is that we have to be a kind of bird for the cat. So I am asking myself a lot of questions about the way you look at it. I would like to say a few words about the conference that is taking place yesterday and today. We are not the only NATO country there. The Netherlands, Norway and Germany are there, as indicated. We're there as an observer, so we don't take a position. I hope that everyone still agrees with the position of our country, the pursuit of a nuclear-free world. On the other hand, we are not naive. A conference in which the countries that have nuclear weapons do not participate can be of little use. We are convinced that the Non-Proliferation Treaty is the best platform for nuclear disarmament. However, participating as an observer is, in my view, a signal that shows that we are looking at it with an open eye. We also fully support NATO's betrayal policy, because it must also be balanced, verifiable and irreversible. I will let the Minister of Defence answer the other questions. Unfortunately, I have to go to another meeting, for which I apologise. However, I have answered some of the questions and the Minister will answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u25	I'm going back to a question from Mr. Boukili. What is expected of this policy? That is a fundamental question. We're just waiting to be safe. You talked about all the difficulties, but we wanted to look more broadly at the consequences of the war. Indeed, a war is taking place on the European continent. It is true that the word "war" has been reintroduced into our societies. It can be noted positively that the construction of the European Union has kept us from conflicts. However, still today a war has been declared on the European continent. We must ensure the security of our territories, the territories of our partners and our citizens. You know very well that, at the beginning of the conflict, many citizens feared for their own security. That is also the responsibility of ensuring that our citizens can live in safety. Without this one, we don't talk about the rest. It's essential. It is also essential to deal with the other consequences of this war, notably on purchasing power, increasing bills, fuel, etc. Exchanges within the government took time because it was a matter of ensuring a comprehensive response. Moreover, discussions will continue. This weekend, we decided on a budget to ensure the security of the citizens and, at the same time, an extension of energy measures to 1.4 billion in order to respond to the other consequences of the war on the purchasing power of the citizens. I think that's it, be responsible. As has just been said, we cannot be naive. Why aren't we attacked? Because we are part of Europe and NATO. It is not for nothing that Finland and Sweden have applied for membership: to have a certain degree of security. On its own, Belgium cannot defend itself. In an alliance, we are stronger. As a field person, I am always in contact with the realities of the field. Nor can I put aside the fact that security is essential. That is the balance we have chosen. Yesterday, when the STAR plan was presented to the Defence Committee, I outlined the different conditions of this plan. You will see that we find exactly the conditions that were determined to reach 2% in 2035. We are not diluting an agreement on the 2%, but we are confirming the direction taken with the STAR plan. It is essential to ensure the safety of our people and it is essential that Defence play its role in supporting the population in the event of a crisis. This requires sufficient staff within the department. A first condition relates to Defence personnel, recruitment, social promotion, etc. A second condition is that Defence provide support in the event of a national crisis, as we have been able to do before. I hope we don't know any more, but we still have to prepare for it. The third condition is to strengthen the Europe of Defence and the fourth, this industrial return. All this was already in the STAR plan that had been validated by the government before the war in Ukraine broke out. It is at the stage of programming legislation, and is being discussed in Parliament. So these are not new conditions that we would have added. Here, with the Prime Minister's speech and what I have confirmed to you, you should not have any concerns about this. We have to do it responsibly, not to buy on catalogue, not to buy to buy, nor by fetishism of 2%. We must do it intelligently. I therefore turn to these economic returns for businesses and the first questions that have been asked to me. This is indeed essential and that is why many have put a very important axis in the STAR plan on this subject. In particular, we have done so with a research and development budget of 1.8 billion. That is why we are finalizing the defence industry research strategy. This strategy will implement how we will be able to bring more industrial returns to our businesses. The objective of this research and development budget is to work with our companies upstream to build the capabilities of the future. Is Article 346 of the Treaty of the Union part of it? Yes, of course; it is one of the options being explored. You have said this several times here again today. Several countries do. I think we need to look at the areas in which this provision can be used. Why? To ensure that an innovative industry develops its own capabilities, has know-how, has control over knowledge and can thus stabilize and increase its employment. This is really the objective of this Defence Industry Research Strategy (DIRS) and of the equally substantial and historic budget; indeed, when it was previously 8 million, we have put 1.8 billion for returns for our businesses and for employment. I come to another subject, the positioning in the East. Mr Ducrame, this is obviously one of the topics that will be discussed at the meetings that we have had, and which are still going to take place. What posture in the future in the East? The challenge for Belgium is to determine how to put these forces in this model, with what level of responsiveness, with which potential operational partners. It is a demanding model in terms of personnel, in terms of equipment, in terms of training, in terms of stock of spare parts and ammunition. So, of course, we will have to show political commitment. It's necessary, we see it today. But I believe that we must also preserve the possibility of functioning multilaterally or bilaterally, in the face of other threats, particularly in Africa. We have to juggle, since unfortunately, we can say that the threats are different today. Still in relation to these difficulties, we have a game of forces, but we have multiple commitments. What we are advocating today at NATO level, as a posture in the East, is to improve the system of current rotations. That is what we are doing in Romania, which we are leaving. The Dutch will take over. We will certainly return later. Improving this rotation system would make it easier for us to respond, perhaps also by specializing the support of some Allies in certain regions. We're here juggling. Of course we will have to be present in these theatres, both in the East and in the South. I always prefer the rotation system, even if it continues in time according to the evolution of the geopolitical situation, rather than talking about a permanent posture. The common costs are also a famous part of the discussions. An agreement was reached at the Brussels Summit in June 2021 on an increase in NATO's common costs. Our heads of state validated it. But there was also a whole series of conditions that we obviously continue to defend. One of these conditions relates to the clarity of the purpose of these contributions. What's the point? So there is no question of a blank cheque. This has already been the case in other circumstances, but certainly not at this level. There will be an increase in common budgets. But for the time being, some of the amounts quoted are fluctuating. The whole issue at the Madrid Summit will be for us to plead, together with a few other nations, for greater clarity in how money will be managed at NATO level. Of course, we want to continue to support Ukraine. It's necessary. We want to support it through the delivery of weapons, but also through other means. We had a second meeting of the Contact Ukraine group, with a number of countries, at which we were informed of the current requests of Ukrainians that do not concern only lethal material. We are busy checking these new lists, working with our security and defence companies on how we can meet these demands, while knowing that, for Belgium as well as for other countries, demand is more important than supply. Supply chains are starting to heat, it takes a little longer and that is why we see a little less flow to Ukraine. There is no will behind it, but it takes more time to get the stocks. The delivery of weapons continues. We do not advertise it, but last week we sent lethal material to Ukraine and we continue to examine what is possible elsewhere. A question was asked about the F-35s. This is not provided for in the programming law as it was tabled and explained yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u26	Mr President, the Prime Minister quotes from the Oxford English Dictionary the definition of the word 'intention'. I looked up the definition of the word "promise" in the same dictionary. "A statement that tells someone that you will definitely do something." 'The aim to do something', the effective promise to do something, is something stronger than an intention. I note that Open Vld says a plan will be made after 2030. It won't be there next week, next week or this year, but it will come anyway. Madam Secretary, can you confirm that you are working on a second STAR plan for concrete investments up to 2035? Yes or no? Has the government reached an agreement on this? I understand that's where the problem lies. The absence of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is significant in this respect. Mr Pillen also said earlier that he would like to know what the government's plans are, but that the Prime Minister does not address this issue. Is that plan going to happen or not? Is this plan supported by Ecolo and Green? I will also ask Dieter Van Besien, Wouter De Vriendt or anyone else in the budget debate in plenary at 2.15 p.m. I can't follow anymore, because there's clear noise on the line. As far as the European story is concerned, I hope that we will not adopt a doctrinary attitude. I hope that we will also honour our NATO counterparts who are not members of the EU in the procurement programmes, so that it does not become an exclusive EU issue. That's one of my concerns. As far as development cooperation is concerned, you say that this percentage dates back to the 1970s and has been waiting for so long. We have only made a commitment to invest 2% of GDP in Defence since 2014. The shipowner that this can therefore wait, because the other has been waiting a long time, I find a bit strange. Maybe I misunderstood you. In relation to this 0,7%, I propose that we follow the Dutch example, namely that Fedasil's reception budget, this year EUR 680 million, should be included in order to achieve that target of 0,7%. One is at 0.4%. Only 0.3 percent of GDP is needed, some 1.5 billion euros. That's about half of it, just for the asylum budget. Asylum is actually development cooperation on its own territory. The Dutch government, with a number of left-wing parties in the government, counts the COA budget, compared to the Fedasil budget with us, in order to achieve the 0,7% objective for development cooperation. That's just an idea. It is said that we need to be more creative in achieving the 2% for Defence, we need to add a number of things, why not count development cooperation? Be creative with the 0,7% and count the Fedasil budget. After all, what is different from development cooperation, organized on its own territory? You're gonna have to explain that to me. Think out of the box Please. There's not enough money. We have a deficit of EUR 20 billion. Perhaps that should be considered, Mrs Van Hoof and colleagues in the government. It is said that we now need to invest more in development cooperation, because there is a food crisis. The food crisis is coming because the Russians invaded Ukraine. We have to help the Ukrainians now, but we have no weapons and no heavy artillery pieces left to deliver. When people say that we need more development cooperation to tackle the consequences of the war in the context of the food crisis, I say that we must start at the beginning and ensure that we also protect the partners, the candidate countries for NATO, with enough deturns so that the Russians do not dare to invade. Then there's no food crisis. I think that is a very strange reasoning, which I absolutely do not follow. Madam Minister, you say that there is also EUR 1.5 billion for le pouvoir d'achat des citoyens, but that is for a small part of the population, with a major focus on social intervention. This is particularly the part that is not active in the labour market. Because of circumstances that I am not going to pronounce on, they do not contribute to the growth of the cake, to ensuring that there is sufficient budgetary revenue for the government. The debate on le pouvoir d'achat des citoyens should not of course take place here. Soon the debate on the budget will take place in plenary. It's gonna be hours. However, the limited focus on mostly inactive people in society bothers a lot of people. Madam Secretary, I think this is a missed opportunity. I don't hear a concrete trajectory to 2035. I am simply asking for the implementation of your coalition agreement, nothing more, especially the average of non-nuclear European countries. This currently assumes 2.1 % by 2030. Just carry out your own coalition chord! It's your coalition agreement, not ours. Just do that, that's all I ask, no one asks. I find it very strange that this is not being carried out, while in other areas new shutters are being written to the coalition agreement. I would like to comment on the partnership for peace. That has nothing to do with the government, it is rather a fundamental debate for which I really ask your attention. How can we better defend the countries in the grey zone that are prowesters against external attacks? Now we work with economic sanctions and deliver weapons, we try to scare off, but it didn't work. It didn't stop the Russians. What's next, China in Taiwan? Georgia or Moldova? We must therefore have a fundamental reflection on how to support our partners within NATO, not NATO members, but rather partners with pro-Western governments, so that they are less afraid of external invasions of our enemies. In connection with the conference, I note that the Prime Minister has not answered my question as to whether we will pay those costs. He shook heavily no, so did his head of the cabinet, but I want to be sure, so I will ask for that further, because I think we have to pay the costs of Vienna with us. The idea that we are going there now as an observer, which makes us supposedly doing well, is naive to me. There are 50 or 60 countries, no one has nuclear weapons. That's pure symbolism. I would have preferred to see that differently, because that conference is not going anywhere. Of course, everyone wants a nuclear-free world, but that doesn't make much sense. It's mostly symbolism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u27	Mr President, you are asking me to be brief. This had to be an exchange of views. We have received a brief explanation from the Prime Minister and a whole series of questions. As far as I'm concerned, there were far too few answers. That is a sign when it comes to the analysis of our security environment and the political responses we should give to it, both budgetary and strategic. Ecolo/Green excels here in absence. The Prime Minister confines himself to a brief response and then leaves. I am not going to do this, but I did not get an answer to my question on the accession of Finland and Sweden and Turkey's veto. What is our position on this? We see that Erdogan will not commit to his demands package without concessions. In the meantime, we are seeing discussions between Turks, Finns and Sweden on the issue, but the tough Turkish attitude has not changed. What has changed is Stoltenberg's more flexible attitude towards Turkish concerns. According to him, there's no deadline, and the Prime Minister didn't contradict that. In other words, NATO gives Turkey a little more time to hold new partners in the alliance and the alliance itself hostage. That's a hell of a punishment. Erdogan is currently pushing his price at all levels, just because it can and because we allow it. Secondly, as far as the Prime Minister's laconic reaction is concerned about the intention or the pledge, whatever one might call it, I shall leave it to him. I think this is a slim attempt to hide the fact that this government is currently doing windowdressing and all this seems much ado about nothing. Maybe he can put that in his search engine and see what comes out of it. At the moment we see that in 2014 the pledge or intention was made for 2 % in 2024. Now this government promises the same for 2035. Maybe in 2035 the government will promise to get that 2% by 2046, who knows. Despite the efforts made by the Minister of Defence by 2030, nothing is changing about our future efforts in the longer term. There are no concrete commitments for the future either. Quid after 2030? It therefore seems to us at the moment to be the result of a cow-trading or a give-take action within the vivialdi government, without any concrete action, except for the 0,7% quoted here by Mrs Van Hoof's colleague, Mrs Van Hoof, who has been on the shelf for more than thirty years. We cannot now say that geopolitical security has improved significantly over all these years, despite our budgetary efforts. The war in Ukraine has come because during those decades we have been under-investing in our security and because weakness is always punished. That is the reason for the war, not because we have not invested enough in development cooperation, on the contrary. The reason is that we have not invested enough in our security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u28	Mr President, I returned to this Parliament in 2003. Do you realize? It was almost the time when we were still smoking in committee. This was the case in 1999. As soon as I arrived in this Parliament, I arrived in the Defence Committee and asked for a 2% allocation because we were no longer fulfilling our commitments to NATO since the early 1990s. Here, this is the first time that a full-fledged government has committed itself to this 2%. I want to congratulate the government as a whole, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence on an extremely important commitment, as you pointed out, depending on the context. I understand the opposition a little critical. She's only critical when you're in action. I see that this is not essential for the Francophone opposition. Apart from the remaining PTB, DéFI and cdH have already left, but we are finally in a scheme that intends to see Belgium take its fair share in terms of security for the continent and for the Belgians. I really want to reiterate my congratulations and say that, ultimately, we are meeting our commitments. In this respect, this agreement has something historic, since we are no longer at 2% and in compliance with our commitments to NATO since the early 1990s, i.e. in the aftermath of the Cold War. I also want to congratulate and solemnly thank Ecolo. It was not easy for this party but it participated in this commitment for the 2%. We must stress this and thank the ecologists for this compromise because it does not necessarily flow from their source. In this, I really want to thank them for their commitment to defence and collective security within the government, rather than for their absence. On the other hand, Mr Boukili, I am overwhelmed by the way you attack, you systematically break sugar on NATO, without ever saying a negative word about Russia. This becomes almost scandalous, given what seems to be your attachment to an ideological line, to a harsh doctrine while tens of thousands of Ukrainians are suffering, today, from war. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence because it is not always easy to answer, in a very short debate, as precisely and concretely as you did to the questions that were put to you. Certain elements in terms of industrial returns for enterprises and employment will probably be clarified in the future. It will also be necessary, at some point, to have a clearer expression of the overall agreement related to these investments up to 2% by 2035 and the other commitments that the government has made in relation to the other departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u29	Mr President, I look forward to speaking immediately after Mr Ducrame. That way, I can answer him. Mr. Ducrame, you have to find out! On the subject of Russia, I wrote articles and also spoke in Parliament. It's been filmed. It's a counter-truth to pretend I'm not attacking Russia. That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u30	That's what you're saying today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u31	I've been talking about the aggression... today, the exchange of views is about 2%. Do we agree? To say counter-truths as you have just done is unacceptable! It's all public. If you want, I will send you links that will shed light on my position and the position of the PTB on Russia, which we will not spare either. However, the present debate relates to the question of 2%. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence have tried to respond to the contradictory arguments I have put against them. Their answers reflect the gap between what people are experiencing and what is thought of as street of the Act. I was told that the government had invested $3 billion in new measures and that it had decided to extend them this weekend. That's what the Prime Minister told me. But that is not enough at all! We need new measures. There wasn't any, except for the extension! No agreement has been reached on an investment in the sectors that make our citizens suffer. There's no point hanging up on what's been done months ago. People are asking for action today. Then, and you are right, minister, our safety must be guaranteed. It's a priority for any population. It would be aberrant to believe or to think that the PTB does not care about the safety of the population and its citizens, the citizens of the world. But how can we get that security? It is the road to this security that raises the question and debate here. You are following a path that, from our point of view, is not the right way to ensure security, whether for our people or for all the people of the world. Indeed, this logic has been pursued for decades and leads to all these tensions and to the current situation of destabilization in the world. What we are doing right now is an arms race. That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u32	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u33	Yes, we're increasing military budgets because Russia is attacking and it's climbing. In fact, that is what it represents. It is precisely this security policy in the world that has been criticized in the past because we have seen what it has given us. On the other hand, what strikes me is that we have been talking about security for a while now, but we never mention the OSCE, which is an organ that has, for a long time, guaranteed security during the Cold War. Why are we not talking about this European security organisation, which aims to ensure collective and indivisible security so that all European countries and their neighbours, the countries of the world, can feel safe? However, it has shown its effectiveness in the past, contrary to the arms race and the war logic, which has had rather catastrophic consequences for different peoples. Madam Minister, you say that our membership of NATO, but above all of the European Union, has kept us from conflicts in recent years. On European soil of agreement, but European countries were at war in recent years! This did not prevent Europe from waging war in Afghanistan or Libya. We destroyed states in an offensive manner, not to defend ourselves. You say that thanks to Europe, we have not been at war. No! Europe has also destroyed other states and waged war on other states. Europe means peace and not war, but on European soil. These same Europeans are waging war outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u34	Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on a number of elements relating to the 0,7% standard. Mr Francken has already left, but it is not about dealing with the consequences, but about tackling the causes of insecurity, Mrs Ponthier, such as poverty, of course. We must show solidarity in this. If we do that alone, it is a drop on a hot plate, so all countries have to do that and a lot of European countries are already doing it. It's an en-en-story. It is not about dealing with the consequences, but about the causes of insecurity. Indeed, people living in poverty are sensitive to abuse, smugglers and terrorist movements operating there, as they do today in the Sahel. We must therefore do something about poverty so that people are stronger and more resilient. I would also like to mention the inclusion of refugees in the 0,7% standard. We did that at the time. This should be allowed by the DAC of the OECD, which determines what may be in the 0,7%. When it comes to the reception of refugees, I assume that it is about refugees from developing countries, which Ukraine is not. It must therefore contribute to the fight against poverty among people fleeing developing countries, but the DAC decides whether or not to do so. We must ask for an exception. That has already happened in the past. I remember that for a number of countries. At the moment, however, this has not been requested, so now the reception of refugees is not an element of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have come to the end of our exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u36	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic827x.u37	It is true that we have not been given that clarity, Mr Francken. Next week we will have an extensive debate on the military programme law and on the STAR plan. There are also resolutions on the 2 % standard to be discussed next week. So we can start the debate in the course of next week if we do not get that clarity today. I would like to thank the government for this exchange of views. Mrs Ponthier, you just asked for a debriefing on the summit. On 6 July 2022 there will be oral questions on the committee's agenda. If there are enough questions, we can organise a topical debate on this subject and we can get an automatic debriefing on the NATO summit. I'm sure it'll be followed up further.
