ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 2.19 p.m. and chaired by Ms. Eliane Tillieux, Chair. The meeting was opened at 14.19 p.m. and chaired by the president, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u3	A series of communications and decisions must be brought to the attention of the House. They will be included on the House's website and included in the full record of this meeting or its annex. A series of communications and decisions must be notified to the Chamber. You can find them on the Chamber's website and in the integral report of this meeting or in its annex. Minister of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Minister of the Federal Government: Alexander De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u4	Prime Minister, at least the real Vivaldi had his seasons tidy: spring, summer, autumn and winter. This Vivaldi is messing things up. You are going to take measures for the electricity in the spring, while in winter gas prices go through the roof. So, according to you, electricity is a basic product when it's warmer and a luxury product when it's colder. Gas is then something like caviar and champagne, which is a luxury product to which 21 % VAT is always charged. Dear government, this is peasant deception, and you know it yourself. We are in one of the biggest invoicing crises in our country, and I have the impression that this government does not realize it and even denies it. Prime Minister, people see their invoice increase on average EUR 230 every month. You arrive at 165 euros a year. That amount is not even enough to pay that monthly increase. Moreover, there are many people who do not even get 165 euros, because they do not get this bonus. What about the 160,000 people in the residential care centers? What about the people who have a budget meter? What about the residents of an apartment block where there's only one counter? The only possible conclusion is that you don't take this billing crisis seriously. In 2009, a VAT reduction on new buildings was introduced retroactively to 6%. I ask this government to introduce a three-month retroactive VAT reduction on electricity and gas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u5	Mr Prime Minister, you did not come up with a structural solution to a good vivaldy habitation, but only with half-time measures. The bickering of these measures lasted longer than the period in which they will be valid. From 1 July electricity, with 21% VAT, is again a luxury product such as oysters and champagne. At the exploding gas prices in winter you come with a heating premium in spring. When it is paid out exactly, in March or April, none of your government has yet been able to communicate. What you dared to tell us was that we leave no one behind, sans embarrasse, as if you believe it yourself. You leave no one behind, except the schools, the municipalities, who already announce that they will pass this on to their residents, and the 165,000 people living in residential care centres or service flats. You also leave behind the thousands of people who live in old apartment buildings with only one counter, where your allowance may be distributed among all residents. Anyone who warms up with natural gas will also leave you behind. In Flanders, by the way, many more people are affected than in the rest of the country. This government can subsidise generous gas plants with Green in its head, but you will not get a VAT reduction on gas. Every day we receive distressing messages from desperate people who have no idea how they will pay their five-fold or six-fold gas bill. Can you explain to me how these many Flemings with advance invoices of 500, 600 or 700 euros per month are helped with this one-off premium of 100 euros? What are they supposed to do with that, buy a fleece blanket or a fat sweater? All those people...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u6	Mr Prime Minister, common sense would have wanted you to lower VAT on electricity and gas since October, during all the winter months. You preferred to invent the drop in VAT in spring-summer collection mode, from 1 March to 1 July, focusing only on electricity. It was the gas bills that tripled. In addition, 80% of these resources are used during the winter months. Lowering the gas tariff would have been quite possible without harming fuel consumers, since it would have been enough for you to extend the Oil Fund to the middle classes at the same time. You do not help gas consumers or fuel oil consumers, but you give 100 euros to each household. You, me, everyone here will receive a check for 100 euros. The single-parent family who struggles to complete their end-of-month will receive this amount, Marc Coucke too, as will the household of six people living in an energy sieve. As for the wealthy single, who has long bought a heat pump and isolated his roof and walls, he will also receive it. How is it possible that in the Kern, where seven parties are gathered, no one has wondered whether, in social terms, this was not profoundly unfair? Moreover, it was perfectly possible to target. In France, this is what has been decided in the form of a targeted and individualised aid, thanks to which anyone earning less than 2,000 euros receives a heating premium. Why didn't you do the same? You could have given more to a better defined audience. That would have been more effective. And, please, don't tell me - because I've heard you say that before - that's because we needed a quick and easy action to deploy. Indeed, Prime Minister, that is not how we defend a measure that took four months to take. The truth is that with the exception of the expanded social tariff - which everyone recognizes as being positive - your measures are lazy, laborious and inadequate, and they will not allow you to buy energy security or social peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, after three weeks of palavering, the mountain has given birth to a mouse. It's not just a mouse, it's a three-legged monster. I even suspect you snorted nitrous oxide on Monday night during the last conclave. After all, your proposal smiles in the face of the good citizen. Last year in January the price for gas and electricity was 827 euros. This year in January it is 3.669 euros. That is EUR 2,842 more and almost quadrupling. VAT receipts have tripled, from 335 to 929 euros. Anyone who concludes a contract for gas and electricity today will pay 5.360 euros. I am not talking about all the premiums that have to be paid to Fluxys, among others, and the green certificates for billions, all of which have been coloured in that tax bill. You will now give a €100 sintering cheese gift per family. That is pocket money for the rich, and that is charity for the poor and for the middle class. Of the total VAT of almost 1,000 euros you give back 65 euros. You spend millions, even billions, on subsidies to ENGIE, which made a profit of 2.6 billion euros, to build gas power plants, and you don't even have money to reduce the VAT on gas for ordinary people. That's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, it is of course always easy to criticize, but what matters is to act. It should be stressed that there is an agreement which includes a series of measures. First of all, there is the extension and extension of the social tariff. This is a good measure that no one is challenging. Secondly, another measure that affects everyone, including the middle classes, consists of a reduction of one hundred euros on the invoice. It's fundamental. Added to this is the time-limited reduction in VAT and the principle of the click that the MR strongly defended because it is a measure that allows us to work in the long term, to anticipate price increases and to act immediately by lowering taxes. In addition, measures are announced for the self-employed. It is above all on this point that my questions relate. Mr Prime Minister, do you confirm that all measures for households are structural and that they will not then be passed on and offset by taxation? As far as the self-employed are concerned, while it is of course important to act for households, it must be borne in mind that the self-employed who have already been severely affected and affected by the covid crisis are now facing enormous difficulties. Without being able to pay their bills, some are considering simply closing the door. As for practical implementation, when will these measures be effective? Are there any difficulties in putting them in place? Is there a risk of not being able to implement them in an emergency? As I said three weeks ago, there is a real urgency for everyone to take concrete action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, extreme left and far right play the same strings of populism in their music, with simple slogans and puns. Maar, let's get to the facts. It is not the government that determines energy prices, it is the market of supply and demand. If demand increases and supply does not follow, such a situation will be found. This government has already taken a number of measures in October and is now coming up with a second package. With a temporary VAT reduction on electricity, an extension of the social tariff and a one-off heating premium, the government is once again taking up its responsibility to reduce those high energy bills, paying attention to the budgetary framework, because that remains important. Apart from the introduction of the energy standard, the government also intends to develop structural measures through a reform of excise duties and adapt them more to a market at fluctuating prices. Besides these energy measures, you have also announced a lot of purchasing power measures. There's gonna be a mini-tax shift. The special contribution to social security will be reduced. The working bonus will be reduced. With these measures, you will ensure that the burden on labour is reduced in a structural manner. In short, it is a balanced package. It may have taken too long, but early communication does not usually serve a quick decision-making process. The government has made an important effort. We must not forget that the budget is in the red and that there is automatic wage indexation. Government is more than dividing or redistributing. Prime Minister, what are the outlines of the energy bill reform? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u10	Prime Minister, at last there is an agreement, a crisis agreement in time of crisis. In October, the federal government reduced the energy price for 2 million people by increasing the social rate. That meant a discount of 730 euros. That was good and necessary, but we had to find that because of the high energy price this measure was insufficient. Hence the government's second package of measures is worth more than EUR 1 billion to print the invoices of the families. We have all been asking for weeks to do so, because we all hear moving stories from friends, family and strangers. It is therefore a good thing that this package is there, because every day without a solution is a day on which fixed contracts expire, a day on which hundreds of families are once again faced with high prices. So doing nothing was absolutely not an option. Even if it is a good thing that there is a package of measures, for our group, I shall be honest, it should have been a bit more or something else. We remain hungry as far as a structural solution is concerned. There is a strong sense in the agreement, which we will not soon forget, namely that a structural solution must be found. That will also be necessary, because it does not immediately look calm in the international energy market. So it is absolutely necessary to have a solution that lasts longer than a winter, so that we will not be standing here again soon. If it depends on Vooruit, this must and will also be done. The government must quickly consider a structural solution in the form of a smart and simple social measure, a post-crisis plan. Prime Minister, how do you see its effect in the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, I was standing here last week with a clear question: when is the government going to come up with a solution to the rising energy bills of families? Our patience and that of many people was put to the test, but there is an agreement. For us, three elements are important. First of all, we're not leaving the most vulnerable. The extension of the social tariff, which was evident to us, is included in the agreement. Secondly, we support the middle class with a temporary reduction of VAT on electricity to 6%, a proposal from our vice-premier that provides a 15% discount. Thirdly, we do not want to leave anyone literally in the cold. Thirty percent of families in Flanders are heating up with fuel oil today. That one-time heating premium also supports them. Colleagues, is that compromise not enough? This is, of course, the case according to the opposition; the opposite would really surprise us. But let's take a look at the numbers. In October, there was an agreement to release EUR 760 million for the most vulnerable. With the new agreement, we will return every euro received by the federal government through high energy prices to all families and make an extra effort. A total of EUR 1.1 billion will be released. We do that to protect the purchasing power of all people. Colleagues, has the task been completed? Absolutely not. For CD&V the chord is a first step, but it certainly shouldn't be the last step. We are now taking temporary measures to help the people now, but we must dare to look further to protect the purchasing power of our families in a structural way. Last week I called for a structural reform of the energy bill. Mr Prime Minister, my question is very simple today. When does the government come up with a structural reform of the energy bill to structurally protect the purchasing power of our families?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u12	Prime Minister, for weeks and even months, you have been struggling and sweating for a good deal against the exploding energy prices, especially at the high natural gas prices that weigh very heavily. You have succeeded. You received applause on the benches of the majority, garlands, fireworks and confetti, until the general public saw the agreement. What do we see? There was, because it had to be, a VAT reduction, albeit only in the spring, only for electricity and actually only for 10 to 15 euros per month. There was also a heating premium of 100 euros. You know that premium is a drop on a hot plate for those who burn on natural gas. They are now paying thousands of euros more. In Flanders, almost 70% use natural gas. All these people must now establish that your solution will cover only a few percent of the additional costs. Is that the agreement that we have all been waiting for? We asked you to do something for the middle class to stand up for that. We ourselves have put forward a proposal which gave EUR 500 for the middle class. You have now put this proposal on the table. That's not cool. That must be discussed at some point. After all, it also means that the story with which you come is absolutely not what had to happen. Of course, you have that colorful coalition around you, where everyone wants something different. We want to work on VAT, the social tariff, excise duties or perhaps something in between, such as a check. Then, of course, there will be such an agreement. Does that help the middle class? Are the invoices paid by those who heat with natural gas? Prime Minister, I'd love to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u13	Prime Minister, you have taken initiatives to help households pay their energy bills. Last week, I asked you here and I called on you, like other colleagues, to adopt a package of measures that respond to the concerns of the vast majority of Belgians, measures adapted to a situation that plunges many of our fellow citizens into difficulties and anguish. I am not just talking about our fellow citizens with the lowest incomes, I am also talking about the middle class, this important part of the population, which today is not protected by the social tariff. As you know, my group was always advocating and advocating, I insist, for measures that are commensurate with the urgency and gravity of the moment, measures to ensure access to energy for all and to control price increases that will be lasting in time. An appointment clause is foreseen in March and solutions exist: - to reduce taxation in order to reduce the impact of price increases; - to target support mechanisms for those who need them most, depending on, for example, the consumption or composition of the household; - loosen the fiscal straitjacket, do not lock itself in an overly restrictive fiscal straitjacket. It is our responsibility to provide long-term solutions. I insist on the long term. My question is simple, but it calls for a clear and firm answer. What more do you intend to do to stop this crisis and to fight structurally against rising gas and electricity bills? I said gas and electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, policy responsibility, if at least one dares to do so, ladies and gentlemen, it also means taking decisions in very complex cases. And yes, it should have been more for us, too. The Minister for Energy, Tinne Van der Straeten, had developed a smart VAT reduction to 6% on electricity and gas. The government has now taken an important first step towards increasing purchasing power, but equally important is the prospect of a smart reform of excise duties so that we can make the invoice more social and greener. So the work isn't done for us. So, Prime Minister, my main question is how do you see this structural reform? Yeah, it should have been more for us. But is this chord "nougat balls"? Is it "farmer deception"? The government has developed a package of €1.1 billion of support measures to reduce the energy bill. That is an honourable compromise which I wish to defend here. I won't hide. In a difficult international context in which international energy prices are going through the roof, every government in Europe is struggling to do what it needs to do. EUR 1.1 billion is not a 'farmer deception', Mr Mertens. There is a clear focus on the most vulnerable, through the extension and extension of the social energy tariff. There is a heating check, also for the people who heat with gas. And there's a VAT cut on electricity. There are some here who excel in the noble art of hypocrisy, colleagues. When the N-VA was in power, it increased the VAT on energy. This government reduces VAT on electricity and makes people's energy bill cheaper. That's the difference. The difference is clear. The work is not finished, but we have made the energy bill of the people cheaper (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u15	Madam President, I think this is a very good debate. If we want to have such a debate, we must do so on the basis of the facts, on the basis of the correct figures and on the basis of the whole story. The whole story is that last year the federal government made a very big effort, an effort of EUR 1.2 billion, to help the most vulnerable people who suffer most from very high energy prices. We've illuminated their invoices. In total, it concerns 2 million people who are helped by a wider social tariff. That's how we helped where it was most needed. The federal government has decided to make another effort of EUR 1.1 billion this year. We are doing this again to help the group most vulnerable, which is most at risk of not being able to pay the invoice and going down through the widening of the social tariff. However, we are doing more than that. We also help the middle class, we also help people who do not enjoy the social rate. We do that in a logical way. This is not the time for certain operators in the sector to make excess profits. This is also not the time for the government to keep to itself the additional revenue it receives. It is logical that we give back that money, it is logical that we give back the excess profits, it is also logical that the government makes an additional effort at a time like this. What measures have been taken? There are three major elements here. Firstly, there is the extension of the social tariff for one million households, two million Belgians who are in a precarious situation and who continue to be greatly assisted. Indeed, for the winter period, this is an advantage of EUR 1 000 offered to the most vulnerable. Secondly, there is the reduction of VAT on electricity. Why? Because all the houses are connected to electricity. It was therefore logical that we should decide to help our fellow citizens by reducing VAT on it for a period of four months, starting with the March bill. Thirdly, a heating premium will be granted to all families, regardless of their mode of heating. Some heat up with natural gas. Others have an oil boiler. Still others are heating up with electricity. It must be noted that this market is very heterogeneous. It was therefore normal to opt for a flat rate allocated to each in the same way. Mr Wollants, you repeat what Mr De Roover has already said in the media, namely that especially in Flanders people are heating up with gas. That's right. In Flanders, however, 500,000 families also heat with fuel oil. You're actually saying that we shouldn't do anything for those people. It leaves you figuratively and literally standing in the cold. You just leave it in the cold and actually indicate that you don't care about fuel oil. That's not the government's approach. This government ensures that everyone is helped, no matter how he or she warms up. In addition to this, we have asked the Ministers of Energy and Finance to continue their work on excise reform and on a system of cliquets on electricity and gas. The aim is to have an invoice structure that helps to better compensate for this volatility, which is very difficult to manage for our households. As I said, we are making a total additional effort of EUR 1.1 billion. Anyone who wants to talk about purchasing power has to tell the whole story. Purchasing power is under pressure, that's right. Energy plays a very important role in this. However, people do not have a separate bill for energy, for their mortgage or for food. No, people have one bill. This account includes not only the heating premium but also the reduction in charges, also the higher working bonus and indexation. I am not talking about the reduction in VAT expenditure. Last year the central index was exceeded twice, and according to the Federal Planning Office it will be exceeded twice this year. It is too easy in this debate, from some sort of myopia, to look only at what is happening in the field of energy and to be blind to everything that is happening next to it. In the end, everything has to be charged: indexation, also the reduction of charges, also the increase in the working bonus, also the heating premium and also the VAT reduction. Let me make this concrete with two examples. For a single person with a gross wage of EUR 2,700 - that is a modest income - this year's purchasing power increase is between EUR 1,000 and EUR 1,100. You cannot dispute these concrete figures. The second example is a pair of two-earners with both an average wage. With them, the increase in purchasing power is between 1900 and 2,000 euros, compared to last year. Compare this with other countries that don't have automatic indexation, with countries where people are still negotiating... This happens automatically. The efforts we are making to strengthen purchasing power are absolutely comparable to those of our neighbouring countries. In this Chamber there are some who have some kind of myopia, who refuse to see the additional efforts the government and employers are making to ensure that people's purchasing power can be preserved. This is very concrete, with 1,000 euros for a single person with a lower wage and almost 2,000 euros for a couple of two-earners with an average wage. Did I say the pain is gone? No one said that. No one in this government has said that we have found a solution to all the problems at a very difficult time. We're not gonna spin around, it's very difficult for a lot of families today. The efforts made by the government and employers can be seen. It is an effort that is a joint task, including from all governments. I say that from a perspective of cooperation, not from a point of view to other governments. We are not saying that there should also be a reduction in charges there or there, but what is fundamental is that we ensure that people who are less purchasing power also have access to better isolated homes and to renewable energy. The only energy that is cheaper year after year is renewable energy. I assume that there will also be a chance of providing a certain perspective in this policy area. This federal government takes care of people. It lowers VAT and gives a premium. Those are measures that are direct. This federal government makes sure the index works. There is no discussion about the index. That index has its effect. This government provides an adapted approach: support for the most vulnerable, reduction of electricity bills, support for heating, regardless of the way in which heating is heated, reduction of charges and indexation, which applies to all wages, pensions and benefits. We are not here to beat on our chests, but the result is concrete and tangible. For a single person with a lower wage, it is a question of strengthening the purchasing power of EUR 1,000, and for a couple of two workers with an average wage, it is a question of strengthening the purchasing power of almost EUR 2,000, compared to last year. At a difficult time like this, the people of the government can expect them to do something concrete and tangible. Is this the solution to everything? No. This is a difficult time for the whole of Europe, but this government is doing what the people can expect at a difficult time, namely to take tangible and concrete measures which will enter into force immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u16	Prime Minister, myopia is not seeing the problems next to you. Blindness is not seeing the problems for you. What you're saying here is folly. You are talking about an effort of EUR 1.1 billion, but EUR 800 million of this EUR 1.1 billion is due to the increase in VAT. In fact, you are making a poor effort of barely EUR 300 million. You are also saying that you will reap the additional excess profits of EUR 2.6 billion from Suez-Electrabel, above ordinary profits, Mr De Vriendt. What are you gonna do? You're barely gonna skim 32 million euros. This means that EUR 3.3 billion of these excess profits remain unused while people are in crisis. You can count yourself rich here, you can ignore inflation, you can come up with figures saying that everyone gets a purchasing power increase. That's not reality. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u17	Prime Minister, anyone who is satisfied with this energy agreement makes it clear that he does not have to pay the heating costs of his ivory tower himself. What is nearsightedness is pretending that 100 euros is a compensation for a gas bill that rises by 1,400 to 1,500 euros. That's a handout to compensate for the failing policy. The extension of the extended social tariff would be lacking. I said here in September that if 2 million people have to use a social tariff to pay their energy bill, then there is something very wrong with that energy bill. You don't get rid of the essence, the fact that this is a hidden tax bill. Energy is not a luxury product. It's a basic need. Reduce the VAT on electricity permanently and do the same with the VAT on natural gas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you, even though I have not received true answers to my questions. I'm a philosopher, I get used to it. I do not have an answer to the question of why you did not act earlier. Should we get used to the strange operating time of this Vivaldi? Should we get used to waiting for the end of the pandemic to talk about the vaccination obligation? Should we get used to waiting for an extension of nuclear power to take a decision on the end of nuclear power? Should we wait for spring to tip its nose to take energy measures? I did not get an answer about the untargeted nature of this EUR 100. I still don't understand why Marc Coucke needs those 100 euros. I do not understand why it was not possible to target this measure to reach more people. On the other hand, we have all understood that this is a kind of foretaste. This strange tempo of Vivaldi, we will have to find another rhythm because with inflation at more than 7%, we will have even more serious problems. One will have to wonder whether electricity and gas should not be seen as products (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u19	One gives back 100 euros at 3.000 euros and calls that a heating premium. Well, I call that a poverty premium. You give back 65 euros of the extra 1,000 euros of VAT received; that is a farmers trick. What I have just heard here is pure hypocrisy. Mr De Vriendt, you blame the others for their hypocrisy. You're turning green with hypocrisy. The Greens do not want a reduction in VAT. They want to replace VAT with excise duties in a cardigan pocket operation. You don't want to lower the price of energy. You want to increase the price of energy, because we need to consume less. That's your theory. You will ensure that gas prices go through the roof, even throughout Europe. You close the cheap nuclear power stations to increase market demand for gas, so that gas prices go through the roof. You are to blame for your green ideology of prices and the impoverishment of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u20	Prime Minister, it was important to help everyone, including the middle class, too often left behind. It is done and I welcome it. You did not answer specifically about the independents, but I know that Minister Clarinval will come with measures. It is indeed essential not to forget our SMEs and TPEs, which suffer twice as much as before. Finally, the MR calls for in-depth reflection on cheap energy. You talked about cheaper energy. We want to think about cheap energy because it will become really important. When choosing options for shutting down reactors, it will be necessary to think carefully about the consequences for the future of rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u21	Prime Minister, it is not possible to charge the government with all the risks. Everyone always wants to do fun is the negation of rule. To spend money without clarifying its financing is to hypothesize the future. If we want to bring energy prices back to an acceptable level, then we must resolutely opt for a long-term energy policy, without ideological dogmas, with greater transparency in the price structure and formed by geopolitical realism. Moreover, further electrification will significantly increase our dependence on our neighbouring countries. Prime Minister, I am counting on you to take the path of climate neutrality on the basis of all low carbon energy sources with your government, and in particular the Minister for Energy, and to ensure that the violins are tuned at European level with a view to a coherent European energy policy. I am glad that we have a Prime Minister who (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u22	Prime Minister, you do not want to say it, and that is why I say it in your place. It is quite a punishment that the N-VA here in the Federal Parliament criticises the federal government, which has invested just EUR 1.7 billion in recent months to bring down the energy bill. It hasn't been so long since the N-VA was part of the federal government. That government with N-VA increased the tax on energy from 6% to 21% and then made an index jump on top of that to push people completely into the misery. The N-VA asks whether we have really waited for such an agreement, as it is now before us. Well, I am still waiting for the answer from the N-VA Minister at Flemish level, Mrs Demir, who is also competent. But she's announced she'll check it out sometime. I must not exaggerate, she has already done something, because in October she had an investigation carried out, and that has resulted in a reduction of EUR 3 per month for people. The 3 euros, that is the N-VA's proposal. Dear N-VA members, if you say you can do better, please do so, especially at Flemish level. Take measures and make sure that people have something to do with it. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u23	Prime Minister, people say never washed a good crisis. Because of this chord, the pressure is a bit off. We support the agreement, but more needs to be done. We are not letting go of this dossier, and we are not letting go of the people who need us. We believe that this is the time to reform. Prime Minister, you confirmed that earlier. We want more reform. The Minister for Finance and the Minister for Energy have already done a lot of preparatory work. We've got a lot of numbers lined up. With excise duties we can better cope with the shocks in the invoice. We believe that this is an effective measure for all citizens. Moreover, it does not harm entrepreneurs. Colleagues, reform is the ambition of every partner in this government. Prime Minister, for a thorough reform of the energy bill and for the structural protection of purchasing power, you have not only an ally to us but also a partner. Let us work together as quickly as possible to achieve a structural reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u24	Mr Prime Minister, when it comes to efforts at Flemish level, the VREG has calculated that EUR 215 has already been withdrawn from the invoice in recent years. While you all applauded the energy standard here, you added another 10 euros. You went the other way and we needed the VRT to bring that to light. You will also forget how many million euros a certain Mrs Van den Bossche has signed in that Flemish energy bill. So don't make us laugh. The fuel oil price and the gas price are not exactly the same increase. Look at the rates until the end of last year. Your 100 euros will cover 7% of the increase in the gas bill and 90% of that of the fuel oil bill. That is not the same, Prime Minister. You don't know those numbers, I know you do. Let's face it, you've got to get to work on that. We will continue to fight you on this...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u25	Your minister has increased the VAT on electricity and gas from 6% to 21%. You mustn't have short memories! An N-VA Finance Minister has increased the VAT on electricity and gas. Don't forget it! It's too easy to be moral! You're the one who raised the taxes on electricity and gas. Don't forget it!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u26	Prime Minister, thank you. Measures have been taken to the tune of 1.7 billion since the beginning of the crisis. These are steps that have been taken. That is indisputable and we congratulate you on that. However, you will have no choice, you will have to go further. The reality that people are going to experience is going to impose it on you. Moreover, as you said yourself, this is only a first set of measures. Let us seize the opportunity offered by this appointment clause in March to provide structural answers to today's questions! How can we better target support for middle-income families: a couple with two children who are heating up gas and living in an apartment in the city? How can we sustain the social tariff that benefits more than a fifth of the population? Should we expand the list of beneficiaries of the social tariff? Short-term solutions and long-term solutions are needed to meet the challenges. It's a real crisis that's exploding right now. Whatever the cost, I repeat, we will have to be with the households to lower their gas and electricity bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for the further clarification of the federal measures, which are effectively much wider than the energy bill alone. Colleagues, now I'm looking across the street. The Flemish government remains very quiet to this day. I could repeat our question to the Flemish Government, namely where the major support pact remains, which would allow people to isolate their homes more cheaply. However, Mr De Roover, I would simply like to stick to a normal question of cooperation and a request to stop firing torpedoes from the Flemish to the federal level. If we want to reduce people's energy bill structurally, we need politicians working together instead of working against each other. Mr Mertens, the PVDA calls the agreement a deception. I'll be brief. The extension of the social energy tariff means a reduction of EUR 800 for 20% of the most vulnerable families in our country. Calling this measure a farm deception is a disgrace. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u28	I would like to take the floor for a personal statement, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u29	It was not a personal fact, Mr De Roover. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u30	Mr De Vriendt, it is incredibly hypocritical that you think the government should be allowed to use gas and punish people if they choose gas, but your reference to cooperation is extremely hypocritical. Last week we tabled a proposal to reduce energy prices, for which we asked for urgency, but your group refused to do so. Now you're pleading for cooperation. Please, you could have proved that last week by supporting the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u31	Mr Mertens, a brief response. I didn't hear your name at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u32	Come on, stick to the facts. One has to be a little honest. He said...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u33	We shall now proceed to the next question. We are dealing with oral questions, Mr Mertens, and not with a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u34	"In recent decades, an ever smaller proportion of the wealth cake has gone to the workers." Mr Minister, when I read that this morning, I thought: a PVDA pamphlet! But the reality was that it was in Time. Time, Stock Exchange Newspaper number one! Where did De Tijd get his grades? At the National Bank! It can't really be called the left. Mr. Secretary, what's going on? I'm trying to explain it to you in ordinary working language. The working class produces the economic cake. That cookie's gonna go a little bit to the paychecks. The rest goes to the profits, to the shareholders. In recent years, this proportion of profits has risen dramatically, and wages have not been followed. Why is that? People feel that: they have 3,000 euros extra in energy costs, a tanking costs almost 2 euros per litre, their shopping cart is half more expensive. Do you know whose fault that is? Yours, Minister. That's because of you. You've chosen to block wages at 0.4%. You have chosen to cut the throat of the social dialogue before it began, when there have never been such large profit margins, much higher than those in our neighbouring countries. What do you choose? A raise? You don't want to do that. In the social dialogue you only listen to the complaints of the VOKA and the VBO. To address this, the Common Trade Union Front has made a clear statement, the Citizens' Initiative. In a few weeks' time, 37,000 signatures have been gathered from all over the country. That is why this initiative is coming to Parliament. I have one question for you, Minister, and you will support the Civil Initiative of the trade unions and the wage freeze (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u35	Mr Colebunders, your lesson or question is about an important issue for employees. It is true that Belgian companies currently book high profits, but if you say that wages are falling, you distribute fake news. Wages in Belgium are not falling. On the contrary, wages are rising. Firstly, thanks to automatic indexation, a social pillar introduced 100 years ago by the then Socialist Minister for Industry, Mr Wauters. Belgium is virtually unique in that respect and I am proud of that. This system of automatic indexation allows trade unions to focus on wage increases on top of inflation during negotiations. I give a concrete example of last year's social agreement. The minimum wage will increase by more than EUR 76 per month on 1 April. In a second and third phase, the minimum wage will be increased by a further EUR 35 each. This is the first increase for 15 years and more than 70,000 people will benefit from this increase. This increase in company margins cannot be denied. As Minister of Economy, I am therefore closely monitoring this increase. I have asked the National Bank to investigate whether the companies are not using rising inflation as an excuse to increase their margins. I expect their analysis in the very short term. As is well known, margins are also due to a lack of competition. That is why I increased the Belgian Competition Authority's budget by EUR 1.4 million. This is an increase of almost 20%. In addition, I will ensure that the Prize Observatory and the Belgian Competition Authority cooperate better so that the analyses of the Observatory become more useful for the investigation of the Authority. Finally, in the next budgetary control, I will ask for additional resources for the observatory and, in particular, for the food sector. The common thread in all these decisions is clear. As Minister of Economy and Employment, I cannot and will not accept that companies do not share their profits with their employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I have just tried to give you a lesson about the way in which the wage and profit margins are distributed. However, do I really have to give you a lesson here about how the capitalist system works? Now, as a socialist, will you tell me that the index is a raise? Are you serious? I could understand, should those words come from your liberal colleagues, but not from you as a socialist. I'll tell you how much the raises will be. I understand, and the unions have understood with the Citizen Initiative. If you do not go to the trade unions, the trade unions will come here. You'll have to listen to them. You will have to listen and review the 1996 law. I'll give you one case. Not only the trade unions but also us from the PVDA will come to you on 27 February 2022 with our Bastabetoging, to clearly attack your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u37	Madam President, Minister, your government has made a decision that I would call irresponsible – I weigh my words – by closing the "Arts and Antiquities" cell of the federal police. This decision violates fundamental international commitments, commitments to Interpol, Europol, UNESCO and the World Association of History Museums. It sits on a historic Security Council resolution adopted the day after the terrorist attacks in Brussels. This was the first time in the history of the Security Council that a resolution was devoted solely to the protection of the world's cultural heritage and its link with the financing of terrorism. This decision is based on the work of our Attentats Committee of Inquiry. It ignores the important work of the Senate on the protection of heritage in conclusion, in which a strengthening of the "Arts and Antiquities" unit of the Federal Police was requested. She's doing even more. It also ignores the many recent appeals from a wide range of international organizations, the latest appeal being made by the Blue Shield, the International Red Cross of Cultural Heritage, whose aim is to protect it. What more do you need, Minister? Is it worth reminding you that Brussels is a hub for trade in works of art and antiques? Should we remind you that Khalid El Bakraoui, Maelbeek's killer, was involved in art trafficking. I am thinking in particular of his participation in the theft of a work by Magritte and a work by van Dongen who were at the Van Buuren Museum. Is it necessary to remind you of what Mrs Verlinden's predecessor, Mr Verlinden, said? De Crem, February 25, 2020? I quote: "The "Art and Antiquities" cell has two agents. This staff is insufficient. I'll fix it. Our country has a reputation to defend in the fight against theft of works of art." It was the voice of responsibility. I hope that it will finally be heard, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u38	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 January I was alone enough in committee to question the Minister of the Interior about the evolution of the Art and Antiquities Unit within the Federal Police. Besides, I got few answers. Since then, the debate has continued in society. Most positions go in the same direction: there is an international trade in stolen works of art and antiques. These facts are related to organized crime, including money laundering, as well as terrorist networks. We've known that for a long time. Moreover, we remember the looting of archaeological sites in the Middle East. Considerable sums are thus brewed. Belgium is considered a hub for this traffic. So far, only journalists specialized in this field have said so. The President of the College of Attorneys General now says so. Of course, this is an absolutely significant fact. In recent years, we have seen a lack of political will. I would like to recall that, under the previous legislature, the Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon had simply removed the "Art and Antiquities" cell, considering that it was not a priority. Wrong! Under this legislature, there was still a tiny cell in the judicial police. But we learn, not from the minister, but from the press, that the retirement of the main investigator on 1 January made this cell inoperative, so that the service is almost empty of its members. No further follow-up – in particular, of Belgium's international obligations – is ensured. Similarly, the point of contact has disappeared. It's quite incomprehensible. The President of the College of Attorneys-General goes further by exclaiming that it is madness not to equip himself with the means to fight against all the categories of trafficking which, moreover, overlap: organized crime, banditry, etc. Minister, what human means will this service have? How will Belgium fulfil its international obligations? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u39	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, Mr Delizée, I will reply on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Verlinden, who is currently in Lille where she represents our country at a European Council. Here's his answer. I have read this decision as part of the competencies of the Federal Judicial Police (FJP) Steering Committee. I expressed my disagreement in writing. I recognize that there are many challenges for the police, including the federal police. That is why we continue to invest in the FJP both in resources and in staff. We will therefore discuss with the federal police how to provide appropriate follow-up to these offences. I can only repeat that when this government took office, a necessary additional investment was made for the entire federal police force. One of the main challenges is to address the shortage of staff. Thus, in 2021, the integrated police recruited 1,897 aspirants inspectors. It is clear that the sectoral agreement will be more attractive to them. In the meantime, I am preparing the future with my colleague, the Minister of Justice. We will ensure that even more police officers come to strengthen the federal police and therefore the PJF, as we did last year with specialized profiles. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft of the new national security plan explicitly includes the fight against the theft of works of art and antiquities. The unilateral decision to suspend the "Arts and Antiquities" cell therefore seems inappropriate. We will discuss with the federal police how we can ensure that this decision is overturned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u40	Minister, I hear the message, it seems clear to me. I hope it is because I have been informed that the last administrative officer who was in charge of completing the "artists" database has just received an e-mail in which he is asked to stop his work from 7 February. I hope there's an e-mail in the opposite direction. I have been fighting this issue for four years. I have tabled a bill which is under discussion in the Committee on the Interior. I will ask her to come back to the table to make sure that this priority is included in the law because we are a hub and there is a serious history of links between terrorism and the trafficking of works of art. Safeguarding our global heritage and cultural assets is an essential issue. We have a special responsibility in Belgium today. I will be very attentive to future developments in this matter. I hope that Parliament will take initiatives (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. I felt like I had been preaching in the desert lately, but I retained one or two positive elements, including the fact that the removal of this cell was an inappropriate decision. That's an important point. Our country cannot be limited to a finding of impotence. We cannot give up fighting these forms of trafficking and money laundering. We need to keep a federal point of contact, we need federal coordination with all police, customs, justice, state security and other services. There is a need to work at the international level on the coordination of the database. Human resources must be restored to strengthen the judicial police. We must give these services the means to carry out this effective fight against all forms of trafficking (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u42	Madam President, Minister, this morning we all heard the reports from the food banks, which confirm that last year a record number of Belgians called on their services. Unfortunately, I fear that, with the towering energy bill, this will certainly not change in the near future. In the same message, the food banks say that the number of donations has been reduced by 11%, which means that they themselves had to buy food on the market to provide the necessary supplies to be able to distribute. The reason is that department stores and food producers have given less food. That is strange, since 30% of the food produced in Belgium is wasted, a very high percentage, but still only 3% of it ends up in the food banks. The food banks therefore cry out and ask the federal government to take action. In France, for example, we see that more than half of the food distributed by the French food banks comes from donations from department stores and producers. That's because these donations are being fiscally stimulated. The good news is that our group tabled a proposal in April 2021 to introduce a similar fiscal stimulus for the donation of food here. In practical terms, we propose to introduce a tax reduction of 60% of the value of food donated in the business tax. Minister, are you prepared to consider our proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u43	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I think it is clear that food banks are an indispensable link in poverty policy in our cities and communities. Already since the first days of the corona crisis, this link became very visible due to the growing queues, scenes that we both know from our region of Ghent. I therefore fully agree with you that the donation of food surpluses should be fully supported. We are already doing this with the federal government, specifically very focused from my competence. Firstly, there is a scheme of favours for the donation for charitable purposes by VAT payers, whereby donors, often companies, retain the right to deduct. Secondly, there is also an income tax scheme. This makes a donation to charitable purposes more tax-friendly for individuals. These are two important measures, which fully support the functioning of food banks in a very targeted but also impactful way. Personally, I am not in favour of additional fiscal measures. The food banks themselves today also indicate that there were fewer food surpluses donated last year because of market conditions. We must be aware that tax support and tax reductions can also stimulate additional food surpluses. Support through targeted grants or subsidies seems to me to be better. One thing is clear: the food banks, and everyone who needs to make use of them, must be fully supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u44	Minister, I do not entirely agree with you. According to you, the food banks have said that there are other reasons for the smaller number of donations. But they themselves, explicitly, ask for the proposal to be introduced, as in France. And you don't think that's necessary. I think it's necessary. You also say that additional food surpluses would be created. We now have 30% food waste. Our proposal allows us to redistribute these surpluses to those who really need them, for example through the food banks. Besides, we'd avoid wasting food. We know that waste has a negative impact on the environment. In this way, we would also contribute to the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u45	Mr Minister, on Friday 21 January, the corona barometer was introduced, linking colours to measures in certain areas of application, public events, catering and leisure activities, and using factors such as indoor or outdoor and static or dynamic. The government clearly communicates that the barometer is a guiding tool, but that the political decision on the measures is final. It is therefore possible to deviate from the measures taken by the barometer. Meanwhile, more is known about the omikron variant: it is very contagious, less sickening, the peak is over, in the hospitals we will also be very quickly on the peak of the recordings. So there's perspective. In other countries, measures are already being phased out, and according to the motivation barometer, our citizens find it more difficult to follow the measures. On the positive side, people want to get to work. The companies and companies in the cultural sector, everyone wants to get to work, even if they still get government support. However, they have to step up their efforts to motivate their staff and former employees have often found a different job in the meantime. The more they experience a clear need to fully resume their activities and restore contact with their staff through their presence in the workplace. Minister, when do you expect to be able to relax? Do you intend to show some flexibility in the application of the measures now linked to the barometer? Are you also thinking of relaxing teleworking policies for the welfare of workers and employers and thus supporting the profitability of enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u46	Minister, after my previous question on the cultural and event sector, I was helped by the Council of State, but we have been able to count on our government since then. The barometer has arrived and is being communicated everywhere. However, the event sector has still not clarified the conditions that will apply in an orange and yellow phase. Nor does he know when we're ready. Parliament and the government do have an eye on the sector. Yesterday, a premium on the RSZ contribution was approved for employers in the event sector, who are still not working. That is certainly a way of avoiding the need for good employees to be fired. Does that help? Yesterday, a young woman, for years of top technician at theatre performances, rock concerts and dance productions, testified in an interview on Radio1 how she, because there was no more work in the sector this is distressing for the sector - now as a receptionist working in a large company. And yes, she is happy, because there too she has pleasant contacts, such as in the cultural sector, but then coupled with pleasant working hours and a fixed monthly wage. For example, the culture and event sector loses its best people. Minister, the people of this sector are now 700 days out of economically profitable work. A large part of this sector must be able to prepare itself urgently for the summer. They need time to do that. Minister, did we lock up the wide-ranging event sector and throw away the key? Or can we now clarify, firstly, all the conditions of the barometer and, secondly, when we will end up in phase orange and can really open the doors?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u47	Madam President, everyone is looking forward to the end of the fifth wave, so everyone wants us to relax the measures that are still in place, but in a safe way. In order to be able to relax safely, we have also agreed on a step-by-step plan based on the barometer. We promised the people that we would stick to the barometer, and I am a little surprised that I already hear arguments here and there to throw it in the trash. If we want to keep our word on the people and be predictable, then we should not do so. So we will not suddenly set a date today, that is not how the barometer works. We will look at what is happening in hospitals, at the burden that still weighs on them how gradually it is moving away. I hope that we will soon be able to switch to the barometer on that basis. Then we shall also consider the remaining obligations on telework. That's what the barometer means. It does not mean that we would suddenly have a date out of our hat or that we would come up with other measures, but rather that we would have to complete the road map for safety. A great advantage of the barometer is that we no longer take an entire sector with a measure which, without any distinction, imposes the same restrictions on everyone. We distinguish, for example in the cultural sector, between organisers who are willing and able to provide good ventilation and others. That is a crucial step forward. It is also one of the reasons why I believe that the barometer should not be closed down now, quite the contrary. Such an approach means that organizers of events that can provide good air quality and therefore little virus, even in a society where there is still a lot of virus going around, can go ahead, even today. An organizer with a room where top-quality ventilation is possible can fill that room today. That is the way we must go. That is why I believe that we must keep the barometer's agreement. Mr Briers, I use your beautiful image. Yes, the cultural sector has been given the key, namely ventilation standards. Those are very clear, even for code orange. They do not need to be clarified, they are already clear. We say that one can fill his room up to a certain percentage, and to the extent that one can achieve the ventilation targets, one can fill them further or even completely. We also say that if you are really not good at ventilation and if the quality of your air is below a certain threshold, you will have to turn over to the agreed percentage to fill the room. That's completely specified for code orange. That is quite clear for code orange, so we do not need to clarify it anymore. We gave you a key, we didn't take a key. I suggest that we keep this agreement with ourselves and with the people, that we apply the barometer and that we do not come up with anything new.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u48	Dear Minister, I do not think we have said that the barometer should be kicked. That was not the question we asked. We have just asked how you will deal with that. After all, it has been said that the political decision will be final. We want to have some perspective. We do not ask for a date, we ask for a preview and want to know how you will handle the barometer. After all, we know that not all parameters will be perfectly completed. The right formula will always have to be interpreted. I believe that we must always listen to the economy and the signals of the moment. Hence the question. I believe that the coronabarometer is not a purely mathematical formula, but that the economy and the people must be listened to as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u49	Minister, the sector is not in favour of lifting the barometer; it is in favour of rapid switching. So people are asking not to wait too long. Any questions? Yes, there are four pages of questions from the event and culture sector about the barometer. So we need to get some clarification on this matter quickly. However, I would like to thank you for the speedy shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u50	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, I assume that, like me, you were particularly questioned this morning by the words of one of the highest magistrates in our country, the President of the College of Attorneys General, Ignacio de la Serna, who mentioned in an interview to the newspaper Le Soir: "We are no longer able to deal with all the cases." This is a terrible finding. Among other things, he spoke about organized financial crime, big banditry. And he said the judicial police are understaffed. You're probably going to answer, "I'm Minister of Justice, not Minister of the Interior." I'm asking you two questions. On the one hand, this is obviously the functioning of justice that is being called into question. Justice doesn't work on those files anymore. On the other hand, you are Deputy Prime Minister and, as such, you have participated with others in a number of budget cuts at the level of the Federal Judicial Police (FJP). We have been asking for months, months and months, particularly through the Minister of the Interior, for additional resources for this PJF. Other magistrates and other associations have spoken on other subjects, including trafficking in human beings, for which there is no longer a section of the PJF, particularly in Mons and Charleroi. There have been repeated requests. The answer was 104 million euros of budget cuts on the PJF over three years. These are, of course, exact figures. Minister, how are you going to convince your colleague from the Interior that justice must work with a PJF that is equipped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u51	Madam President, dear colleague, "the dismantling of the Sky ECC network: a breaking point in the fight against organised crime in Belgium". I am not saying it, it was the title of a press conference held on 26 October last year by the highest authorities of the police and the judiciary. Thanks to the Sky ECC case, hundreds of suspects are in custody in our prisons and dozens of investigations are also under way in Mons. From the outset, we have supported our security services in the fight against organized crime since, since the government took office, nearly 200 collaborators have come to strengthen the Federal Judicial Police (FJP). The number of staff in the PJF increased from 4,197 to 4,387. Then, this year, the PJF will receive 300 new vehicles. It was high time! In addition, we are investing €30 million in NTSU - the federal police department responsible for metadata and interceptions. But we are aware that we need to do more. Over 700 investigators are currently working full-time on Sky ECC investigations. And we are going to do more, for example, by providing an additional €70 million to the federal police this year. With these additional resources, I want to recruit, among other things, 195 additional specialized investigators for the PJF. In this way, dear colleague, thanks to the considerable efforts of many - the PJF and the College of Attorneys General in the lead - we are able to stand up to organized crime in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u52	Mr Minister, I am absolutely struck by your answer! Is that to say that what one of the highest magistrates in this country is advancing is wrong? There's a lack of resources. 35 million euros are missing! When you say that the PJF budget has been increased, you forget to say that, at the same time, you are making 104 million euros of linear multiannual budget reduction on the PJF. It should therefore not be said that the budget is increased when, at the same time, it is reduced and linear reductions are applied. The services of the PJF require 750 additional men: 300 men to fill the natural departures to the pension and 450 additional men to be able to carry out their missions. I cannot therefore hear your answer, minister. It is really very unpleasant to question in this way what a high magistrate in our country is asking. I thought you were paying more attention to these files and that you really wanted to ask for the necessary means...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u53	When the purple-green vivaldi government was launched a little over a year and a half ago, the coalition partners swore expensive oaths that the invoices for the population would not rise. In the meantime, unfortunately, we know better. Inflation is sky-high. The few savings of the population evaporate. Many families now have to choose between buying food or having hot water. In a country with almost the highest public debt in the world, that is not only sad and distressing, but also embarrassing. The increase in the number of users of food banks has been increasing for years. The government has not yet been able to reverse that line, quite the contrary. Figures from the Belgian Federation of Food Banks show that 177,000 people depend on food banks last year. In addition, it appears that in 2021 supermarkets shed some 11% less food surpluses. In order to avoid a structural shortage of food and to meet an additional demand, the food banks themselves had to buy food. In view of the dramatic situation, they are asking the government for additional financial support in order to continue to carry out their task. Of course, there is little good forecast for 2022 and the record of 2021 is expected to be broken by inflation and sharply increased energy prices. Will you and the government provide additional financial support to the food banks? If so, how many and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u54	Mrs Samyn, this is indeed a worrying evolution. We have seen an increase in the number of beneficiaries for more than 10 years. We must not only observe, but also act. Since my arrival, I have increased the resources for food aid. Between 2020 and 2022, funds doubled. That went from EUR 13 million to EUR 26 million. Since the start of the corona crisis, I made EUR 4 million available to the food banks. There is now EUR 2.25 million planned for 2022. As food aid is not limited to food banks, ad hoc aid was granted to the OMCWs. In this way they can respond to the urgent requests. Since the start of the crisis, it has been about EUR 14 million. A further EUR 3 million will be added to this by 2022. That extra help is unconditionally available to everyone. The rest of the additional aid is used for the purchase of hygiene products. So we don't play with our thumbs. The government is working on different ideas to get us out of the corona crisis. The increase in benefits up to the poverty line, the corona premium and the extra corona resources prove more useful today than ever and help us to control the corona flow. Moreover, I take that observation into account in my plan against poverty and social inequality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u55	Madam Minister, do not be under any illusions: the need for food aid will only increase in the coming months. Many people in need will have to choose between food or heating. That's a welfare state like ours unworthy. Food aid is a patch, but it's needed here and now. In addition, opt for structural measures. Permanently reduce VAT on energy prices to 6%. Reduce VAT to 0 % for essential foods such as fruit and vegetables. That would keep the derailing inflation under control. It is a real shame that inflation has left the government earning money at the expense of those in need. Make sure our people feel the difference by the end of the month. Get an affordable shopping cart.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u56	Madam President, Minister, Corona teaches us that we are not safe until everyone is safe. Those are of course not empty words, every mutation came from abroad and the risk of mutation is less at a high vaccination rate. How, however, is it achieved? You have taken a clear position from day one, i.e. abolish the patents and do not make vaccines a profit machine for the pharmaceutical industry. However, it should not have been. For some, the interests are too great. One can do two things. Either one continues to shout angry and comes down with symbolic politics or one breaks the system, breaks a policy that is stuck, a policy that has so far gone no further than the donations of surpluses, than the sending of vaccines to third countries and hopes that it will work out. Effective development cooperation is not a charity. And it's definitely not a bottomless pit. International solidarity is always aimed at strengthening people and providing them with opportunities for self-employment. That is what we are talking about as socialists. That's what's happening now. A smart investment has cracked the code of the virus. The impact of this is not to be underestimated. Dozens of factories will finally get started. We can finally break the deadlock. Madam Minister, international solidarity has once again proved its worth. Now, of course, the next step is to go through the clinical studies as quickly as possible. There must be no delay there. We are not losing this opportunity. Madam Secretary, how are you going to put pressure on the coming period to bring these new vaccines to the people as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u57	Madam President, Madam Minister, there are two contradictory reports coming up against the news of the covid on the African continent. The first is positive since a South African company would have been able to find a vaccine against coronavirus that does not require a patent. The World Health Organization (WHO) financially supports this approach. Unfortunately, however, this vaccine would not be available for several years, and tests and accreditations are, of course, necessary. The second is negative. Indeed, Dr. Thierno Baldé, who is responsible for the emergency response covid-19 to the WHO Regional Office for Africa, highlights the explosion of covid cases in this region due to the omicron variant. He spoke of an increase of almost 30 per cent in cases and 20 per cent in the number of deaths in Africa over the past five weeks. This raises the question of the resilience of health systems in these countries and the response to a new mutation of the virus after omicron. Minister, are we participating in missions with other partner countries, the WHO or UNICEF, to convince African people in a more modern and powerful way of the absolute need to be vaccinated? How do we reach all these populations? Through which medical circuit? With regard to the acquisition of vaccines and the logistics necessary to make use of them before they are out of date, we learn from the mistakes of the past. We improve their shelf life. We ensure better management of donations. We support production on the African continent (Senegal, Rwanda). How can we continue our efforts by using all the instruments at our disposal? Minister, as I said, the situation is urgent. While waiting for a hypothetical and very slow procedure for the lifting of patents, would you be prepared to open a dialogue with pharmaceutical companies so that they can act concretely and philanthropically in this emergency scenario?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u58	Madam President, Minister, this is good news that we can share here and with the world: a society in South Africa, supported by the World Health Organization, has succeeded in cracking the code of vaccine against covid. She therefore found a formula that does not require any patents. The good news is twofold, although implementation will still take time. First, it promotes local production – which, of course, guarantees better access and greater public confidence, enabling one of the obstacles to vaccination to be overcome. Secondly, a generic vaccine will be able to be replicated, as we ask, we Socialists, for months, and as still demanded in a white card, civil society organisations such as the CNCD, mutualities, trade unions, but also researchers. Remember, vaccine inequality is still present, with 66 per cent of the people in the G7 countries – the richest countries in the world – receiving at least two doses in December, while only 6 per cent of the African population were vaccinated. The gap between the richest and poorest countries remains abyssal. Beyond the support for the VOCAX mechanism, which we welcome and in which Belgium has invested a great deal in providing already 8.5 million vaccines, we must go further and go beyond this notion of charitable donation, by strengthening solidarity through investment in local production and innovation in partner countries. Minister, can you confirm that Belgium has supported this initiative? If so, to what extent and by what mechanism? What is the future of patenting, in order to make this vaccine a global public good? Indeed, as we all know, a higher vaccination rate in all the countries of the world would avoid such a rapid emergence of new variants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u59	Madam Minister, you spoke in the press this week and you announced good news of the arrival of a generic vaccine against covid-19. It is being manufactured in a hub in South Africa. This is certainly a welcome prospect. However, I would like to draw your attention to various points. First of all, this vaccine is not at all at the end of its validation process. It may not be available until 2023 – and perhaps even later – which means that it will happen two years after vaccination campaigns start in the richest countries. Secondly, the populations of low-income countries remain very few vaccinated. Less than 10% of these populations would be covered by a double dose today. Finally, there is no guarantee today that these vaccines will be distributed in a fair and equitable manner. Production alone does not guarantee equity. Vaccines are already available today, but their manufacturers, Pfizer and Moderna, still refuse to share their formulas. Madam Minister, when I hear you say "we can put behind us the discussion of patents without hope", I cannot follow you entirely. I cannot accept that we should stop this fight for the temporary lifting of patents on vaccines. I can't accept that, while Pfizer and Moderna generate $1,000 in profits per second, we can say we're going to move on. Everyone's access to the vaccine is known to depend on a series of conditions, but the lifting of patents, which is provided for in the WTO agreements, is part of the solution. Minister, do you believe that the hopes raised by this future vaccine are commensurate with the needs of the world's population? How does Belgium intend to position itself in the continuation of discussions at European and WTO level on the temporary lifting of patents on vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u60	Madam President, Minister, bringing the covid vaccine to the wider global population is indeed a challenge. There is a lot of communication in the press, but unfortunately it is not all as rosy as it seems. The bouquet of flowers you receive here from colleagues has serious thorns, because the hub that will begin to produce has yet to undergo clinical studies. The freedom to start producing vaccines in Africa was already agreed at the beginning of the Moderna crisis. What is really embarrassing is that there are a lot of vaccines in the world, but they do not end up in patients' arms properly. In Africa, 8% of the population has been vaccinated. You are really trying to do something about this with the COVAX initiative, Minister, but development cooperation is more than sending a pallet of vaccines and then saying: do with it what you think is right. No, logistics is part of it. We have found in the COVAX initiative a bit of the project of the broken promises. At the moment, more than 1 billion vaccines have been promised, but there are 681 million waiting for an arm, waiting for that guidance to be provided to the patient. More than 100 million vaccines were destroyed in December - rejected or expired. Madam Secretary, how will you raise the standard of that initiative? How will the Belgian government really make a difference and ensure that patients in Africa get their vaccine in their arms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your questions relate to a very important subject. The corona virus, as you know, has no boundaries. Think alpha, delta and omikron. When one corona wave is over, the next variant is almost ready. So the only solution is to stop this pandemic worldwide. We won't be safe until everyone's safe. If we want our freedom back, we want it to be preserved. That's the challenge. That is why it is important for everyone to have access to vaccines. Through COVAX, Belgium has already donated over 11 million vaccines to other countries. Yet, we are not able to provide vaccines to the entire planet only by giving because there are many obstacles. It is often not obvious, from a logistical point of view, to bring vaccines on site in difficult-to-reach areas. This means that vaccines are lost. I find it outrageous that so many millions of vaccines are being destroyed. That is why we within COVAX advocated donating vaccines at least two and a half months before the expiry date. But we also provide logistical support in the form of needles and transport. In this way, we are trying to set an example internationally. However, let us all be honest. In the meantime, we have all understood that donating alone is not enough. We must go far beyond charity, and we must seek structural solutions. And yes, we have worked intensively with the pharmaceutical companies. We have already invested a lot of taxpayers' money, but to defeat the pandemic on a global scale, it still does not prove sufficient today. The patent debate also continues to drag on internationally. Unfortunately, no result. That does not mean, however, that we should have that debate. That is why we have always said with the government that we must find a solution for the vulnerable countries. That's exactly what I did. In the meantime, I've taken action. Together with the World Health Organisation and with European partner countries, we have sought a solution behind the scenes. We found it at a South African technology transfer hub, Afrigen. This is a promising center where scientists work together with one ultimate goal, namely to find a mRNA formula that enables local production of vaccines, worldwide. Those scientists in South Africa found that mRNA formula in six months. This process has been much faster thanks to the support of Belgium and countries such as Germany and France. And that's very good news! As experts work within the international legal framework on property law, scientists can move to a higher speed. With the breakthrough on the mRNA formula, the scientific centre in South Africa can take the next steps towards a new generic vaccine, which is an important step towards obtaining an approval. The ultimate objective is to provide vulnerable countries with the tools and production rights necessary for them to be able to produce vaccines themselves. That is exactly what development cooperation should be for me: not charity, but providing tools to strengthen countries and people worldwide with structural solutions. Tell me honestly, who could be against that? It's a win-win situation. By vaccinating everyone, we also secure ourselves. That's just good for everyone. This is the only way we will stop the pandemic worldwide and we will be safe here. Then we can make sure of our hope of regaining our freedom, and then we can keep it that way, because we will not be safe until everyone is safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u62	Madam Minister, I note that some parties today do not take the floor, parties which continue to table endless symbolic resolutions, but which, now that it is possible to make a real difference, prefer to remain silent in the debate. Let it be noted: Socialists solve problems. We are always taking a difficult step, we are coming up with solutions that work and that will really make a difference for people, for pensions, for care and now for vaccines. Only together will we get through this crisis. Too often there is much political but little action. Let this be a moment of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u63	Madam Minister, first of all you have pointed out that we will not be protected until the whole world is protected. Africa is currently experiencing an explosion of covid cases. Omicron is wreaking havoc there: 30% more cases in one month and 20% more deaths. It is therefore necessary to bring vaccines as quickly as possible to people and, above all, to make them adhere to vaccination. That's where the bastard hurts. WTO, UNICEF, Cooperation and local authorities should not be afraid to use other means such as influencers, artists, social networks. However, contrary to what I often hear, and again here, the lifting of patents is not the miracle solution to this situation. In any case, it will be very slow, as it requires unanimity among the member countries joining the World Trade Organization. Moreover, let us be honest, patenting at home does not mean that it will be possible there to produce and distribute vaccines - even less urgently. Minister, this urgency requires you to find innovative, faster and more logistically efficient solutions. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u64	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I would like to welcome the fact that our country has made a very positive contribution to the VOCAX mechanism. I am also delighted that South Africa is a pioneer in this field, which was looked at with a reprobative eye at the time of the arrival of the Omicron variant - it is obviously much easier to consider that evil comes from an outside country - and that in the 1990s, under the impetus of Nelson Mandela, it had already made the fight against AIDS a national priority; it had since then been slowed down in its struggle by the large pharmaceutical companies leaving behind the lives of thousands of people who died of AIDS because of lack of access to care! For us socialists, health is and must remain a global public good. Let us hope that history will not repeat itself, for no one will be safe until the whole world has access to safe and effective treatments and vaccines. Thank you for your action!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. In June 2020, at the initiative of environmentalists, we voted here for a motion for a resolution to recognize vaccines and technologies as global goods. Since you joined this Vivaldi government, this has been your line and you have given all your energy to try to lead this debate on vaccine accessibility, with a perspective not of donation but of social justice. We support you from the beginning in your struggle. You pointed out that Belgium does not have to be ashamed of its action, whether in VOCAX or in other initiatives that have been taken at the international level. That said, the urgency is at the door and the prospects you are giving today – which are excellent – are not fast enough. We still have other tools. The process of patenting is slow. We have been fighting for this for a year and a half and we encourage you to keep this line in the negotiations. We know that you are an ally in this case (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u66	After the incense, the reality. Madam Secretary, it is to your credit that you raise the logistical problems. It is also to your credit that you clearly state that this hub and the production of vaccines in Africa have been created together with the pharmaceutical sector. Hopefully the vaccines will roll off the band in two years and end up in the patient's arm. However, there is another problem, since there are reports of corruption, of vaccine diplomacy. There are also a lot of reports of refusals of vaccines. Certain African countries indicate that the quantities of vaccines offered are greater than demand, due to the lack of information about patients and also due to cultural differences. As long as you don't solve those problems, we won't get there. We must make a very clear commitment to people's willingness to ensure that these vaccines can also be placed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u67	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u68	Mrs Reynaert, I do not think I can answer you, because I do not think you have mentioned me by name. Madam President, I would like to return to the incident during the questions to Mr De Croo. We revisited the video. Mr De Roover has been able to give an additional reply to Mr De Vriendt on the basis of a personal fact. Mr De Vriendt literally said: 'As far as the PVDA is concerned, I am going to be brief, Mr Mertens'. Mr Mertens has therefore been mentioned by name. I therefore regret that he has not been able to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u69	The incident is closed. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u70	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 February 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 February 2022, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u71	I have received an amendment to the bill on temporary support measures due to the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 2430/1. I have received an amendment to the draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, No. 2430/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 February 2022, I propose that this amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 February 2022, I propose that the amendment be sent to the Committee on Finance and Budget (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u72	The next item is the vote on the launch of the procedure referred to in Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority for two members of the ODA Steering Committee. The next item is the inclusion of the votes relating to the initiation of the procedure provided for in Article 45 of the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority in respect of two members of the Executive Committee of the GBA. The file was available until January 18, 2022. The dossier could be consulted until 18 January 2022. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting on Thursday, 13 January 2022, members were able to vote until today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session on Thursday 13 January 2022, Members were able to vote until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present, Ms Depraetere and Ms Houtmeyers, are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The youngest two Members present, Mrs Depraetere and Mrs Houtmeyers, are invited to be present at the recording of the votes. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u73	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2109: Kathleen Verhelst - 2153: Katrien Houtmeyers, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Michael Freilich.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Dieter Vanbesien, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u75	The N-VA had submitted a similar bill on this subject. We shall, of course, support it. The proposal provides a solution to a concrete and important problem in the commercial agency agreements. The parties shall be free to determine the costs to be borne by the bank or insurance agent. The law today protects against unilateral change, in practice that is a reduction, of the commission of the agents by the principal. Where that principal unilaterally amends the commissions, the agent may invoke the termination of the commercial agency agreement. The principal then has to pay the agent a cancellation and retirement allowance and the agent can immediately get to work for a competitor without having to respect a competitive obligation. Just because this protection was legally anchored, heads of state do not decide to unilaterally amend committees but are going to make the savings envisaged on the cost side. The unilateral modification of costs, thus increasing them in practice, cannot be regarded as a breach of the agreement. However, this has the same result as a reduction in the commission. After all, the agent's net income is falling and the bank's costs are being reduced. With this bill, we ensure the same protection for agents when unilaterally changing costs as those who already exist against unilaterally changing committees. Of course, the parties to the conclusion of a commercial agency agreement are still free to determine the costs to be borne by the agent. That freedom of contract is very important and we do not want to touch it. However, the problem lies in the implementation of the agreement. We have now provided a concrete solution for this. Of course, our group will support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that my proposal was adopted unanimously. It strikes a balance between the banks, the insurance agents and the principal that was not there in the past. In addition to protecting against an increase in committees, this proposal provides additional protection against the unilateral increase in the costs of the self-employed agent. That's very important. The principal can still increase costs, but this will now be done in consultation. Further promoting mutual consultation and contractual freedom, ensuring a balance between the principal and the independent bank and insurance agent and also ensuring the necessary fair protection of this commercial agent against unilaterally imposed increased costs are important points. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support in committee. I am very pleased that this bill can be adopted today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u77	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u78	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2109/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2109/7) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mr Rigot, who referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the FAGG's financing model, proposed here in the draft law, is at least somewhat special. After all, we will charge the pharmaceutical companies with an additional tax, which is a doubling of the packaging tax, in order to increase the burden on a federal organisation in order to do some more work. During the covid pandemic, that federal organization, euphemistically, has dropped a number of stings. I'm talking about the mouth mask saga, the squirt saga, the vaccinesaga and the testsaga. I could go on for another 15 minutes. These are matters that allow us to prove tangible and perceptible that the organisation's functioning is not optimal. I am not talking about accusing one official or another, but above all about the organization chart which is not optimally classified. The profiles are not optimally assigned to a particular function, resulting in errors that have cost a lot of money. In the case of the tests, it concerns millions of euros, with the public prosecutor's office still having to act. Colleagues, we cannot just call that a chat. We can give you tangible facts. How does the Vivaldi government intend to solve that? She'll give up some more money and pay a little more in the hope that she'll be okay. Colleagues, of course that is not the case. Of course, before an intervention is carried out and more resources and tasks are allocated to a certain federal organisation, this must be preceded by an external audit, which can clearly indicate the points of improvement and how the organisation chart and profiles can be better used. That's an amendment. It was originally a legislative proposal from the N-VA Group. We have submitted it as a recommendation to the Special Covid Committee. Today we try again. The amendment tabled by the N-VA Group is being retabled today. We are in favour of this external audit of the FAGG. In the discussion in committee, I indicated that there really should be a benchmark here of what the payer gets, in this case the pharmaceutical sector, from the FAGG in exchange. I have stated this on a regular basis in this plenary session. The smaller businessman gets an agency that doesn't answer the phone, which refers to European guidelines for the GMP entities and can then pick them out on its own. The entrepreneur gets an agency that needs months to figure out an internal monograph, that does not approve the biocidal products that can be used to clean areas for a week, that will approve self-tests of a large lab very quickly and that of an SME after eight weeks has still not approved. That benchmarking, so looking at what that taxpayer gets for the money being paid, is absolutely necessary. When I talk about capturing a federal organisation, this is 93 million euros in 2019 to 104 million euros in 2022. That's a good investment. Not everyone can say that. That is why the N-VA Group has a lot of comments on this bill. The fee that is doubled and which still raises a few million euros is the packaging tax. Originally, that was a very good initiative that the Chamber approved. In a previous period, it was intended to compensate the patient who was not affected by a medicine prescribed by a doctor for the absence of that medicine through that pack charge. That law was passed two years ago. However, I am still waiting for the royal decisions that could provide the solution here by ensuring that our patients no longer have to contribute because the money comes directly from the pharmaceutical sector, as was intended. That royal decree has still not been published. The result is that the money will be spent on additional officials who will have to implement these two European directives. Of course, it is a question of European directives which are widely and deeply implemented and which we in the N-VA Group are asking whether it was not possible to screen first, first to see which functions should not be carried out more or less. In the meantime, we have decided that a remote inspection can be carried out. So there are certainly possibilities to shift at the FAGG. We do not believe that this increase in the budget was necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am right at the door of telling you that the Flemish interest will abstain from voting on this draft law. There are several reasons for this, but I shall confine myself to the main ones. On the one hand, we do understand the need to increase the resources for the FAGG, as they have not changed substantially since 2019, while some European regulations entail costs. This bill aims to address the financing of the FAGG by applying the basic principle of a so-called fee-for-service. This is a kind of fee system in which any service provided by the Agency is covered by a fee payable by the person requesting the service. Fee-for-service seems to us to be a good principle with Flemish Interest, although we realize that it is not always possible to cover all costs in this way. In this context, for example, the draft refers to investments relating to the operation of the Agency or also services requested by entities that do not have to pay for them. In that case, I know that I am now going down the road for a rather useless pocket-jacket operation. On the other hand, we wonder why the FAGG is not being evaluated. We believe that an external evaluation or audit into the functioning of the FAGG is not superfluous. We cannot deny that many people, including Mr Depoorter, agree with me that there have been certain problems with this operation, not least in terms of services, especially during the corona crisis. The demand for an audit has nothing to do with trust or trust in the staff of the FAGG. An external audit can only benefit the operation. An audit can indicate where it went well, but can also indicate the pain points in the operation. A point of concern is that the existing procedures are in danger of failing. Mr Minister, an external audit, contrary to what you said in committee, does not send a signal to the staff that it is not working properly or that it is not doing its best. An audit can indicate where to do better and even where to do better. In view of the list of problems at the FAGG, it should be clear that the existing internal audit mechanism is inadequate. An external evaluation is therefore in fact required. The fact that the Flemish Interest is reluctant to grant EUR 8 million in additional funds through fees and charges to the FAGG is therefore only normal. Does the FAGG need additional resources? I am, in all modesty, convinced that this is the case. I think everyone here recognizes that to a lesser or more degree. It is not unreasonable, Minister, that we want to be sure that the additional funds are well managed. It is only natural that we should also want to know whether these additional funds are being used properly. Fee-for-service, Minister, quid pro quo for the pharmaceutical industry, but also for the FAGG, I would say. We will therefore abstain in the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u83	Madam President, Minister, we will abstain in the vote on this bill. The draft law aims to increase the resources for the FAGG. This is understandable because the FAGG's operating costs are increased by the introduction of some European regulations and the Agency's budget has not been adjusted for two years. We have a few questions about how these funds are being increased. The FAGG is financed through three channels: taxes, contributions and fees. The industry sounds like music to the ears, especially the big players. It is a fee-for-service system, so a certain amount has to be paid for a particular service. However, taxes and contributions are instruments to finance the FAGG in a more inclusive way. This draft law changes the level of different fees, contributions and charges. Some are increased, others are reduced, but in general it is the intention of the operation to increase the fees in relation to the contributions. That's the fee-for-service system. The big players in industry are calling for this, because if you have to pay EUR 3,700 to submit a dossier instead of EUR 370, I refer to Article 17, then of course large companies have fewer problems with it than small companies. In this sense, we are actually creating an environment in which it will be easier for larger companies and more difficult and more difficult for smaller companies. It is also simply stated that this is partly done at the request of industry. The explanatory statement states: "The representatives of the various sectors, represented on the Transparency Committee set up by the FAGG, have also requested this in the past." It also says: "In accordance with the wishes of the various sectors, the aim is to reduce this solidarity as far as possible. The provisions submitted here take account of a first stage of this reduction." That is where we come in with a more fundamental criticism, because on the one hand the FAGG has an important industrial control function and on the other hand it is financed by the same industry. The industry has a lot to deal with, including in two FAGG committees: the Transparency Committee is chaired by Marnix Denys van beMedTech, the lobby of medical technology, and the Audit Committee is chaired by Ann Adriaensen, Secretary-General of Pharma.be, the pharmaceutical lobby. In this way we get very close to conflicting interests. That's why the PVDA is more for another system. We should move towards better and fairer taxation in general, including for the pharmaceutical industry. The Court of Auditors recently published a report in which it showed that there are a lot of tax advantages, including for research and development, which we do not see very much of. If we were to move towards fairer taxation, we could finance the FAGG ourselves and ensure much-needed independence. That is why we are abstaining on this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will approve the draft law on the operation of the FAGG and the allocation of additional financial resources for the following reasons. I would like to go back to those reasons, because there has been a lot of discussion on this in committee and I have heard little about it today. Firstly, the adaptation of legislation and the additional funding is absolutely necessary. The transposition of the European regulations and obligations, the increase in the pension contribution for federal officials and the recalculation of all fees, in particular fees or fees for services based on the real costs borne by the FAGG, all of these require additional tasks and additional resources. Secondly, it was very thoroughly explained in the committee that the adaptation of legislation and funding are necessary. The quality and safety of medicines and safety products must be guaranteed. The availability of new medicines should also be guaranteed and research, production, distribution and delivery should be facilitated by stakeholders. Thirdly, an additional effort is required in the sectors, including market authorisation holders, manufacturers, wholesalers of medicines and medical devices and pharmacists. That was also clarified in committee. It is logical that there should be an additional effort for the government. That is what is happening, and that is important. What is also important is the mention that, in the event of an overall positive outcome at the end of the journey and the balance between the sectors, the principles of return to these sectors are being adjusted but not abandoned. I would like to make a few comments, questions and concerns which our group also formulated in committee. For example, there was a discussion about the complexity of zero based budgeting in fees or fees for services. The Minister was right to point out that the stakeholders themselves asked for this and that a linear levy does not offer a good alternative. Against the concerns about our competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries, the Minister has clearly stressed that this has been taken into account in determining the fees. In connection with the criticism that no fee is requested for academic research, the Minister noted that such a measure would be double-up given the existing funding of the government. Furthermore, the Minister reassured the Forward Group, which expressed concern about SMEs active in the sector, that he shared her concerns and included them in the policy. It was asked whether the EUR 8 million investment was justified, in short, whether financial transparency could be provided. At the beginning of my speech, therefore, I listed all the reasons for the investment. In addition, the Inspector of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance gave their consent. We can rely on that. Last but not least, some questioned the operation of the FAGG and rejected the fact that fresh resources would be allocated, referring to some examples, which I believe should be examined. In particular, they pointed to the malfunction of certain workers. I am really glad that this complaint was contradicted in Parliament today and that there was no longer any disfunctioning of the staff here. Of course, we are also calling for an evaluation of the FAGG, just as we expect from any public authority. This is also part of our monitoring role, whether or not the evaluation of the FAGG takes place in the form of an external audit. This should not be based on the assumption that the individual workers do not or do not function properly and that their aim should be to assess the possible pain points and the structural factors behind them in order to help them out of the world. For example, this could be the overload of requests from all kinds of authorities, including Parliament in times of covid crisis. Other factors may also play a role. In conclusion, there is no reason for us to reject the draft law and therefore to stop additional funding. For all these reasons and in view of the answers given by the Minister in committee, this draft law is receiving our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u85	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u86	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2366/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2366/7) The bill has 41 articles. The draft law has 41 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 to 41 shall be adopted article by article. Articles 1 to 41 shall be adopted by article. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u87	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Yngvild Ingels. The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (1338/3) The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (1338/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you know by now that learning from crises is very important to me. That's why I'm taking this file to the plenum. Learning from disasters and emergencies is a crucial part of risk management, as is preparing and managing a crisis well. Just there the shoe wrings in our country. We're not very good at that. That's not recent. It's always been. We move quickly to the order of the day. Some evaluations are made in small cells or different disciplines, but a global exercise is never made. They never really look at what went well, what went wrong and what needs to change, in the short term and in the long term. We're not very good at that. To help the services and the minister and to give us some extra work, there is this bill. It will ensure that we institutionalise the global debriefing report in the Civil Security Act. This is the only law defining the concept of event, disaster to be coordinated at national level or emergency. The committee asked why the Civil Security Act was chosen, because it could also be police disasters. That is correct, but the concept of emergency and management at national level, the federal phase, exists only in that civil security law. That's why it's registered in this law. With this bill, we are obliged to draw up a global debriefing report. We also give the King some work, because it is fair to make a royal decision on the timing and method. Of course, a two-day disaster is not the same as a disaster as we are experiencing today. The current one takes much longer and therefore requires a much longer analysis phase. We also require it to be transferred to the Chamber after a certain period of time. That is, of course, a very nice report of what went right and wrong and what needs to be changed. That is an instrument for us to follow up on what needs to change. We have the task of following that up within the appropriate committees. It may also form the basis for a special or committee of inquiry. Overall, everyone agreed with the principle. You even approved the urgency a year ago. In committee too, everyone was cautiously positive during the discussion and it was understood that it was a really good idea in principle. But then suddenly something has changed and it is still not clear to me why that happened. That question mark only gets bigger. You have all approved the principle of a global debriefing report in the report on the recommendations of the Special Committee on COVID-19. You have agreed that this is necessary, that it is a good tool to do the follow-up, to give the services a little support in order to make the evaluation sound and thorough and to send it to us. You agreed to that. It is incomprehensible why you do not want to apply the principle to other situations outside health risks that can happen to us, such as floods. It is very strange that you agree in principle and that you also write in Recommendation 87, but that you do not want to put it into a global bill that would apply to all crises, not just to medical crises. Only one party was consistently opposed to this from the outset, namely the PS. They were consistently opposed, but the argument was very strange. The argument in committee was that they had entered the principle of monthly reporting in the pandemic law. Of course, that's not the point. It is about much more than just a health crisis, but it is mainly about what needs to happen after a crisis and not during a crisis. What lessons should we learn from a crisis and what things should be followed? Colleagues, I can give you a lot of examples. Now take the example of the floods. The learning board is in place today, seven months after the facts. Now learning has to begin, while the evaluation and recommendations could already be there. I would like to give one last example, namely that of the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks on 22 March. We were promised that by last summer we would have a table showing the state of play of all the recommendations. It was then said that this would not be achieved and that it would be 1 February. I wonder who's already received anything. We're just really bad at that. Let's do something about that together. There's nothing political about this. You all agreed. Please, people, back this up. Let us work on this together to learn from crises.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u89	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u90	Voters 110 Stemmen White or invalid 3 Blank or invalid Valid 107 Geldig Absolute majority 54 Perfect majority Yes 82 Yes Non 20 No. Abstentions 5 Onthoudingen By an absolute majority, the members decided to initiate the procedure referred to in Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority against Ms.Charlotte Dereppe. The Justice Committee's proposal is therefore being followed. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session on Thursday 13 January 2022, I refer the matter back to the committee to initiate this procedure, which is contradictory and takes place in camera. By an absolute majority, Members have decided to initiate the procedure provided for in Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority against Ms Charlotte Dereppe. The proposal of the Justice Committee is therefore being followed. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of Thursday 13 January 2022, I shall return the dossier to the committee to initiate this procedure. This procedure is contradictory and runs with closed doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u91	Voters 111 Stemmen White or invalid 3 Blank or invalid Valid 108 Geldig Absolute majority 55 Perfect majority Yes 79 Yes Non 21 No. Abstentions [[8]] Onthoudingen By an absolute majority, the members decided to initiate the procedure referred to in Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority against Mr.David Stevens. The Justice Committee's proposal is therefore being followed. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session on Thursday 13 January 2022, I refer the matter back to the committee to initiate this procedure, which is contradictory and takes place in camera. By an absolute majority, Members have decided to initiate the procedure provided for in Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority against Mr David Stevens. The proposal of the Justice Committee is therefore being followed. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of Thursday 13 January 2022, I shall return the dossier to the committee to initiate this procedure. This procedure is contradictory and runs with closed doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u92	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on vaccination and the administration of vaccines authorized under the VOCID-19 prophylaxis, No. 2460/1, by pharmacists in publicly available pharmaceutical clinics. The Government has requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law on vaccination and administration, by pharmacists exercising their profession in pharmacies open to the public, of vaccines for the prophylaxis of COVID-19, No. 2460/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u93	Madam President, the urgency is being asked because the current campaign continues to reduce some of the population, for example in the cities. Vaccination by pharmacists may work with threshold lowering. The Task Force Vaccination has previously advised that pharmacists should play an active role in the campaign. Given that the campaign is still running and that efforts are still needed to reach additional people, it is important that the committee starts the discussion of the draft law soon. That is why the government is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u94	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u95	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market in order to allow a supplementary auction for the auction held in 2021, No. 2466/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market in order to allow for an additional allocation under the auction organised in 2021, No. 2466/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment to Article 7 of the Electricity Act is intended to ensure the security of the country's electricity supply at all times, particularly in view of the real risk of unavailability of a significant capacity selected at the auction held under the capacity compensation mechanism in October 2021, with a view to availability from 1 November 2025. It is necessary to provide for an additional control period, no later than March 15, 2022, in order to verify whether the administrative authorization(s) required by the regional regulations for the construction and operation of this capacity have been issued at the last administrative instance and, if not, to be able to carry out the necessary corrective measures as described in the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u97	I don't know if it makes a world of difference, but when it comes to No. 2466 goes, then we are against urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u98	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u99	The government also requested urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various energy provisions, No. 2465/1. The Government also asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various provisions relating to energy, No. 2465/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the urgent request concerns the bill on various urgent energy provisions No. 2465. This bill sets out important measures that will help counter the current increase in energy prices. In order to ensure purchasing power and competitiveness vis-à-vis neighbouring countries, the draft law provides for an annual assessment by the regulator of the level of the different cost elements of the electricity and natural gas bill by comparing them with those of Germany, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom. Taking into account the need to take an implementing order and to provide sufficient time to ensure that the regulator's annual assessment is carried out properly, urgent treatment is warranted. In order to introduce a social tariff for the supply of heat by means of remote heat distribution networks, the bill provides for amendments to the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipeline and the Programme Act of 27 April 2007. In order to achieve the government's ambition to allow the hot social tariff to come into force from 1 January 2022 onwards, the publication of the legal basis included in this bill and the royal decrees with a view to its execution must be done before the end of the first quarter of this year. In order to respond to the practices of certain energy suppliers and given the planned end of the extension of the social tariff to BIM customers, it is urgent to take the qualitative measures proposed in this bill. Households are faced with price increases that have never been seen, hence the need to intervene as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u101	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u102	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u103	These interviews were held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 26 January 2022. These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 26 January 2022. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 230/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Sander Loones; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 230/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Sander Loones; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u104	Madam President, Mr Loones has been struck by the Omikron variant and is following this sitting with some limited breath from home. That's why I'm replacing him today for the defense of the motion in his interplay. In 2017, a woman from Limburg died in a bloody attack in Barcelona. In relation to this attack and its circumstances, there have always been many uncertainties. These attacks were carried out by a radicalised terrorist who also lived in our country, in Brussels. A recent development took place, as a Spanish intelligence officer stated that his service was involved in the terrorist attack. That, of course, increases the uncertainty of the next of kin. In order to avoid misunderstandings, the officer concerned is not uncontested and we certainly should not take his word for it, but on the other hand he made his statement during a trial before the Spanish Supreme Court, so it is not a rumor that appeared somewhere in a tabloid. So we do not necessarily have to believe in it, but we cannot simply shuffle it aside. Mr Loones called on the Minister to be more proactive in the dossier. He asked for the necessary political contacts to be established at the appropriate level with the Spanish fellow minister. The Minister replied to Mr Loones that she did not make any personal contact, since it was one statement by one person and because she did not wish to interfere in the case. Fortunately, the Belgian embassy has declared that it is following developments. The motion now before us is not so demanding. We simply ask the Minister to be vigilant and to make the necessary contacts, without any delay as to the truth of the statement made. Given the involvement of the country and the death of a citizen of our country, this seems to us to be a limited but necessary effort. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that you will follow us in our question to the Government, as formulated by our recommendation, to remain attentive to the outcome of the investigation, ordered by Catalan President Pere Aragonès, to the claim made by former police Commissioner José Manuel Villarejo.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u105	Madam President, a former Spanish secret service agent stated at the beginning of this year before the Spanish Supreme Court that the Spanish secret service was aware of the plans for the terrorist attack of 14 August 2017 in Barcelona, but did not intervene to divert attention from the Catalan independence issue. The terrorist attacks took place several weeks before the Catalan Independence referendum in 2017. There were many wounded and 16 people were killed, including a woman from Limburg. Despite the strong evidence of the entanglement between CNI and Es Satty, both the Spanish judicial authorities and the Spanish government refuse to investigate the facts. In the committee, Minister Wilmès replied that she did not have any personal contacts with the Spanish authorities on that particular issue, because it concerns only the statement of a person in the context of legal proceedings. Not only the EU, but also the Belgian Government is constantly showing a hypocritical and opportunistic attitude when it comes to the Spanish rule of law. The answer is always that it is an internal Spanish matter. Then there is no form of indignation. In my motion for a recommendation, I call for the Spanish authorities to be proactively urged to investigate the circumstances of the 2017 terrorist attack and the possible involvement of the NIC, especially in the light of the unfortunate Limburg victim, and to advocate in European and international fora that action is needed to ensure the right to truth for the families of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u106	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u107	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u108	These interviews were held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 26 January 2022. These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 26 January 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 238/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 238/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u109	Madam President, the tensions between the West and Russia with regard to Ukraine are of course not new, but they have been intensified lately. Raising the number of troops along the Ukrainian border and Russia's increasingly harsh demands on NATO make dialogue difficult. A military confrontation or raid may not be possible for the next few days and is uncertain, but it is possible. What is certain is that NATO is increasing its readiness, that a number of Member States are sending reinforcements and that the US is building up its presence in Eastern Europe. Belgium also puts its money into the bag and wants to contribute with the possible deployment of some 300 soldiers, extra F-16s and a frigate. However, we would like to call for calm and diplomacy. That is necessary, because we find that some Members are so busy applying for a high position or who knows a job in NATO that they are almost on the warpath. Sable-waving and weapons clattering in a new conflict at our borders can best be avoided, because it will undoubtedly be Europe that, in the event of an escalation, lags behind with, among other things, the backlash of the inevitable flow of migration. So being called up for a military conflict with Russia would not serve our own interests at all. I have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation in the Committee on External Relations, in which I ask the government two things. Firstly, I would particularly like to ask for the maximum use of diplomatic means to relieve the current tensions between Russia and Ukraine and to prevent further military escalation. Secondly, I would ask that Ukraine's freedom of choice regarding whether or not it wishes to join NATO and its territorial integrity be fully respected. During the discussion in the committee, it was noted that the Flemish Interest is not alone with its vision. More than that, literally all the parties reached the same conclusion in their discourse. In view of this, we assume that the order of the day will not be taken immediately and that our motion for a resolution will be supported by the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u110	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u111	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u113	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u114	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u115	Yes 83 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u116	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u117	Yes 83 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1338/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1338/1 is therefore rejected. ------------------------------------------------------------------ Vote/Vote 1(MOT230/235) Mrs Kim Buyst has voted like her group. Mr Kristof Calvo has voted like his group. - Mrs. Julie Song voted as her group. Mr Franky Demon has voted like his group. - Mrs Kattrin Jadin voted as her group. Marie-Christine Marghem voted as her group. Mrs Eva Platteau has voted like her group. Mr Reccino Van Lommel has voted like his group. Mrs Marianne Verhaert, like her group, voted. Vote/Vote 2(MOT238) - Mr Christophe Bombled voted like his group. Mrs Kim Buyst has voted like her group. Mr Egbert Lachaert has voted like his group. Mr Jasper Pillen has voted like his group. Mrs Marianne Verhaert, like her group, voted. Vote/Steming 3(2109/7) - Mr. Nicolas Parent voted as his group. Vote/Vote 4(2366/7) Mrs Tania De Jonge has voted like her group. Mrs Marijke Dillen has voted like her group. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-03-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip160x.u118	The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 10- 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 10 February 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
