ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u1	At the press conference on Wednesday 20 April this year, his lawyer submitted evidence that the charter flight invoice to bring Mr Rusesabagina to Rwanda was addressed to the Rwandan regime and was also paid for by the regime. Since his arrival in Rwanda, he has been imprisoned on the basis of a 25-year sentence in an unfair trial, as our authorities have confirmed. Meanwhile, his state of health is deteriorating. He had a stroke in prison. Of course, his family is concerned about his medical condition. Our Committee on the Rules of Procedure has tabled a motion for a resolution to follow up the matter closely and to raise the matter with the Rwandan authorities. The extradition or transfer of Mr Rusesabagina was not possible because there is no extradition treaty governing the transfer of prisoners between Rwanda and Belgium. I also referred to this in connection with the discussion of the treaty with Iran and the United Arab Emirates last week in the light of the case of Father Theunis. What is the Belgian Government's reaction to the new evidence put forward by the lawyer? How is the situation of Mr Rusesabagina followed? Why can we not conclude a similar treaty between Belgium and Rwanda on the transfer of prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u2	In response to your questions about the documents that would have been shown by the Rusesabagina family lawyer at a press conference in the United States at the end of April, I can inform you, as Minister Wilmès has done on several occasions and with great respect for this commission, that a judicial investigation has been opened in Belgium on how Paul Rusesabagina was transferred and arrested in Rwanda. We must respect the separation of powers and I cannot say more about it. However, Belgium continues to pay a great deal of attention to the situation of Mr Rusesabagina, to his state of health and to the proper medical follow-up he needs. The Belgian embassy was present when the judgment was read in appeal on 4 April. His state of health is discussed with him during the numerous consular visits he receives. The most recent visits date from 31 March and 7 June. In between there was also a telephone call on May 26th. Although, for reasons of confidentiality, we cannot provide detailed information on Mr Rusesabagina's state of health, we can confirm that we regularly address this issue in writing and orally with our various interlocutors, both in Brussels and in Kigali. We are also in contact with his family. At their request and with the permission of the prison, personal effects were given to them during our consul's last visit. In this way, our country has also requested that the results and medical reports be sent to its treating doctor in Belgium. You refer to Mr Guy Theunis' situation in 2005. I can only repeat that Mr Theunis' return to Belgium in 2005 was the result of an agreement reached with the Rwandan authorities in the context of his specific situation. In the case of Mr Paul Rusesabagina, such an ad hoc solution is not possible at the moment because the situations actually differ. Moreover, the Rwandan government has always indicated its intention to bring Mr Rusesabagina to justice, which was not the case for Mr Theunis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for keeping a close eye on Mr Rusesabagina's state of health. I fear that otherwise this would not evolve favorably. It is good that you do this bimonthlyly or once a month. Last week I had an exchange of views on the Theunis case with the Minister of Justice. That was, of course, another matter. Last week we received the details that there was no conviction but also no treaty of transfer between Rwanda and Belgium. My question remains, of course, why there is no treaty between Rwanda and Belgium on transfer. Of course there must be an agreement between the two countries in question, but it does not seem unthinkable to organise it effectively, so that there can be an exchange of prisoners between Rwanda and Belgium. Then the point of dispute will be whether or not Mr Rusesabagina is a Belgian. As a result, I can lively imagine. However, it is not unthinkable to consider this when time passes. After all, time always brings advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, for your full answer, as far as you can tell us. Yes, of course, there is the separation of powers, but, as we all know, we are facing a settlement of political accounts by judicial means, and this justifies Belgium's continuing interest in the situation of this gentleman and his extremely worrying state of health. Thank you in advance for continuing your follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I am delighted to ask you questions in the row of Brabanons, although in this committee the questions that we are asking are rarely happy. Belgium has always had important links with Guinea. We are thus bound by a government cooperation contract from 2018 to 2022, we have previously given great support to this country to fight the Ebola virus, our Brussels Airlines company organises direct flights to the capital Conakry, etc. The Guinean community is also very active in Belgium, with about 15,000 people of Guinean origin or nationality residing in our country. Despite all these links, Belgium does not have an embassy in Guinea, only a diplomatic office. The nearest embassy is in Dakar, Senegal, which is particularly problematic for Guineans who want to apply for a visa for Belgium on the basis of the risk of excision. Guinea is one of the world's leading female genital mutilation practitioners, with a prevalence rate of 96 per cent. A mother who wants to leave the country to prevent her daughter from being excised will have to leave for ten days to go to the Belgian embassy in Dakar. During these days, there is a significant risk that her daughter will be subjected to excision by the person who cares for the child, such as the grandmother. As a reminder, female genital mutilation falls within the scope of violations of human, women's and children's rights. They are condemned by a number of international bodies and texts to which Belgium is a signatory. Every effort should therefore be made to protect women and girls at risk of genital mutilation. Mr Secretary of State, is there any particular reason why Belgium does not have an embassy in Guinea? Is an embassy in Guinea envisaged? If an embassy in Guinea is not possible, what other options can be put in place to protect girls at risk of female genital mutilation during the visa application process?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u6	Madam President, Mr Moutquin, Belgium has had an embassy in Conakry since 2018. However, the Commission does not have consular powers in the broad sense. At the consular level, the Embassy has limited competence mainly for emergency assistance to Belgian nationals. Consular powers for Guinea, including visa applications for Belgium, fall under the consular section of the Belgian Embassy in Dakar. There is no immediate plan to expand the Embassy's scope of work in Conakry to include all consular services. An assessment of the visa situation on the spot is carried out in consultation with the Aliens Office. It was true that female genital mutilation was still practised on girls in Guinea. For this reason, Belgium is financing a project under the cooperation programme with Guinea entitled "It decides", amounting to EUR 5 million over the period 2019-2023, whose objective is to promote the sexual and reproductive rights of women. Within this framework, the project has established an awareness-raising programme on gender-based violence, including awareness-raising on female genital mutilation. The project also supported the establishment of a hotline that victims can call in case of need, as well as a victim support centre that will eventually be able to temporarily accommodate all victims by providing them with the necessary legal and psychological assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u7	Mr. Secretary of State, that's quite surprising. I am going to inquire about the Guinean Embassy because the organizations that deal with these girls did not have the information or partial information. My question has been addressed to you, or to Mrs Wilmès, whom I welcome in passing, but it is true that it is also about asylum and migration powers. Indeed, as you know, young girls who are victims of genital mutilation or rather their parents do not yet have automatic international protection status. This is a job that we are going to start with your new colleague, Mrs Nicole de Moor. Thank you for your answers, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u8	Secretary of State, Kenya is the second largest refugee-hosting country in Africa. Thus, thousands of refugees from neighbouring countries and persecuted on the basis of their sexual orientation try to find refuge there. But once you're there, it's total disillusionment. Kenya's law also criminalizes same-sex relationships, which are punishable by a heavy penalty of imprisonment. Although this law is rarely applied, discrimination against LGBTQIA+ people is common. The latter are regularly subjected to persecution, attacks and death threats. In Nairobi, the authorities were implementing a regroupment camp policy, prohibiting homosexual refugees from settling outside designated areas, under penalty of fines or imprisonment in the event of non-compliance with such orders. In Kakuma camp, bringing together about 300 LGBTQIA+ refugees and asylum seekers, several security incidents have been reported. In particular, we are thinking of the attack of 17 June 2022 on a group of LGBTQIA+ people celebrating the Pride. Such violence has led a number of people to a protection zone where they are given greater security, although this displacement increases their visibility and, indeed, their vulnerability. However, these areas are not suitable for long stays and for the reception of an increasing population of refugees, so that living and security conditions are deteriorating. Due to the legislation against homosexual acts, the Kenyan government does not grant asylum to LGBTQIA+ refugees, so many people are waiting, over long periods of time, to be relocated in the hope of international protection. Resettlements, which slowed down particularly during the covid-19 crisis, are hampered by an insufficient number of places. Mr Secretary of State, have any contacts been made with the Kenyan authorities regarding the fate of LGBTQIA+ people? What are Belgium's efforts to increase the protection of LGBTQIA+ people in Kenyan refugee camps, in collaboration with UNHCR's executive partners? Finally, have any steps been taken to integrate these people into a relocation programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u9	Member, thank you for your question. Belgium, through our embassy in Nairobi, participates in the Refugee Donor Group (RDG), which includes all major donors on this issue. This group closely monitors developments in refugee camps, the adoption of new legislation and the implementation of the road map signed by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), as well as the Kenyan authorities. As such, the group is in close contact with the Kenyan authorities on all these issues. The promotion of LGBTQIA+ rights is of course part of his advocacy. Our country also participates in UNHCR's activities. Our embassy in Nairobi joined a field visit to the Kakuma camp on 15 June. During a meeting with the head of the UNHCR camp, he confirmed that psychological support was available for this specific target group. We are therefore indeed active on these issues, in partnership with our European colleagues and UNHCR. The protection of the rights of LGBTQIA+ people, who remain under pressure in Kenya, is also a recurring focus of the European Union and its Member States. On the specific situation in the refugee camps, the financial support provided by Belgium and the cooperation with UNHCR, I invite you to address your questions to my colleague, the Minister for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u10	Mr. Secretary of State, I am pleased to see the field work being done to support the work of UNHCR and other organizations. I think it could perhaps be coupled with diplomatic work to point a finger, or at least discuss these discriminatory legislations towards LGBTQIA+ populations. We know that we must avoid the sometimes neo-colonial trend in our diplomatic relations. But at least start a conversation with the Kenyan authorities. For the rest, I will ask my questions not only to the Minister for Development Cooperation, but also to Mrs De Moor. A few years ago, when homosexuals were discriminated against in Chechnya, and in danger of death, Belgium was able to participate in relocation programmes. I think that here, perhaps in consultation with other European countries, we could consider with Mrs De Moor directly helping to relocate those people who are obviously in great pain. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, the answer to my first two questions on the Belgian position on the accession of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova to the EU is now known. Nevertheless, I would like to refer to the question that has been put. However, I would also ask you to explain what was announced today by the Council of Europe on additional financial support for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u12	Mrs Ponthier, our country supports the EU's candidacy for Ukraine, in line with Article 49 of the Treaty of the European Union, and wishes, on the basis of the Commission's opinion, to establish a clear path for Ukraine's accession, based on strong and enforceable conditionality. That is the basis for a merit-based accession process. Although there is recognition of the historical circumstances in which these applications are granted, Belgium points to the necessary credibility of the process and the importance of monitoring all steps of the process in the traditional way, namely in line with the enlargement processes of the existing candidate countries. Therefore, the Commission is asked to report on these conditions in the regular annual progress reports on enlargement policy from the 2023 edition. Our country also wants to use the reconstruction of Ukraine to achieve the necessary legal reforms, anti-corruption measures and conditionality, as well as to ensure economic convergence with the Union. Belgium has broadly followed the Commission's opinions in granting the candidate status to Ukraine and Moldova and supports the perspective for Georgia. However, the debate must now quickly be brought into a rational framework, respecting the procedures and conditions known, the Copenhagen criteria and also the timing of the enlargement process. The rule of law must be at the heart of this, as must the fight against corruption and organised crime. The conditions listed by the Commission are therefore explicitly to be fulfilled prior to any subsequent step in the process and must be strictly monitored. A rational framework also means that the next steps must be embedded in a more realistic time frame and that a next step can only be discussed after the normal progress reports on the enlargement policy of 2023. With regard to democracy and the rule of law, Ukraine has made considerable progress in recent years and the government has also demonstrated its determination to further reform in this direction. Moldova is also going that way. As far as Georgia is concerned, the situation is still very polarised and the country still needs to make progress before it can obtain candidate status. The same applies to human rights. As far as the economic criteria are concerned, the situation is further advanced. The adjustments made by the three countries under the trade agreements with the EU are sufficient to grant them candidate status. The same applies to the transposition of the Community acquis. Progress has been made through the association agreements, but further harmonisation is expected in the accession process. In any case - and this is also confirmed in the conclusions of the European Council - no further steps will be taken in the accession process until the conditions laid down in the opinions of the European Commission are met. Since 2007, there has been a legal framework and financial instrument, the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance or IPA, of the European Commission to support candidate countries and potential candidate countries in their accession process and the necessary reforms. The IPA III instrument includes a budget of €14.2 billion for the period 2021-2027. This amount is only part of the European budget for 2021-2027, earmarked for EU foreign policy under the heading Neighbourhood and World, which amounts to a total of EUR 110 billion. In order to give access to IPA III to the three countries with an EU perspective, Annex 1 to this Regulation, which lists the beneficiaries, will need to be amended. Currently, Ukraine is still a beneficiary of EU funds in the neighbourhood policy that is part of NDIC-GE, independent of IPA funds. The European Commission has clarified that at this stage it does not consider it necessary to adapt European financial instruments or transfer candidate countries to IPA funds, as this would involve a revision of the Regulation, which would be a long and difficult process. Meanwhile, the three countries will continue to benefit from the EU support available under NDICI-GE. The aid granted through NDICI-GE should enable Georgia to fulfil the conditions set out in the Commission's opinion for obtaining the status of candidate country. What are the consequences on migration? Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova are third countries whose nationals are exempt from visa requirements by Member States such as Belgium, which fully apply the Schengen acquis. In recent years their nationals have been allowed to travel within the Schengen area for a period of 90 days per 180 days. Of course, accession could lead to new migratory flows to our country, but this connection is not systematic. For more information, please refer to Mrs de Moor, State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, attached to the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u13	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive answer. You have listed a number of concerns that we share and we would like to make the necessary warnings, including on the implementation of the Copenhagen criteria. Despite what Commission President von der Leyen said at the beginning about the major steps that have already been taken, you have rightly been somewhat nuanced here. There are still very serious questions to be asked. What about the functioning democracy? What about the corruption? I do not need to tell you where Ukraine is currently ranked. What about respect for cultural and sexual minorities? On all these points, Ukraine does not currently have a European framework of values and standards, and you will certainly agree with us. There are also significant consequences of possible Ukrainian membership, not only in terms of migration, but also in terms of a further wave of enlargement of membership in the Balkans. At present, all these countries are still disadvantaged in many areas. Moreover, many Member States suffer from enlargement fatigue. You have also mentioned the traditional policy of neighbourhood or partnership, which is now being replaced by the political approximation of genuine membership. My group believes that this could be a dangerous game at geopolitical level. We must be cautious about its consequences, not only in economic and human terms, but also in financial terms. Today, the Council has announced that another billion additional macro-financial assistance will be granted. This brings the balance sheet to EUR 2.2 billion in EU financial support to Ukraine. That's not nothing. You have reassured us, at least for the time being, by saying that no further action will be taken until the accession criteria are met. I hope, together with you, that we will be able to make a strong contribution to this. I'm sure this will be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 55028971C by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u15	Madam President, Secretary of State, on 7 June the European Parliament adopted a non-binding report which deplores the decline in fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law in Turkey. It must be recognized that in recent months incidents and other questionable practices in the country have increased: arbitrary detention and arrest, enforced disappearances, stigmatization of migrants, ethnic, religious or sexual minorities, serious violations of freedom of assembly, association, expression, the media and the independence of the press. We can therefore only agree with the concerns of the European legislator in this area. Several calls have already been made by Belgium, in its bilateral relations with Turkey, to revise its anti-terrorism legislation, to comply with its human rights commitments and to initiate a reform of the judiciary in order to strengthen its independence. At the beginning of 2021 Ankara announced the adoption of a two-year human rights plan, which included a component on the independence of justice. The implementation of this plan is expected to be completed in six months. Mr Secretary of State, what happened to this plan today? Have any results been observed? If, at the end of this plan, no significant progress can be made, what initiatives will Belgium or the European Union take to urge Turkey to return to the rule of law? What are the prospects for the resumption of negotiations with Turkey on its accession to the European Union? Do you consider, like the European Parliament, that the recent violations mark the de facto end of the accession process? Or do you consider that the accession process remains the best lever at our disposal to defend Turkish civil society? If so, what concrete support does our country provide or can it still provide to Turkish civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u16	Mr De Smet, President Erdogan presented an ambitious two-year plan of action to the authorities of the country and representatives of the diplomatic community on 2 March 2021, which contained a number of commendable commitments in terms of strengthening the independence of justice, freedom of expression, association and religion, and individual freedoms. However, the plan of action was rather vague on some points and did not address fundamental issues such as the revision of terrorist legislation, the implementation of judgements of the country's superior courts or international courts, or the end of arbitrary preventive detention. In addition, the main craftsman and instigator of the action plan, the Minister of Justice, resigned in January 2022. The action plan is still officially valid, but more than a year after its launch, Belgium must unfortunately note that the human rights situation in Turkey has not improved. New restrictive legislation is under consideration. And as you know, Turkey still stubbornly refuses to implement certain judgments of the European Court of Human Rights despite the criminal proceedings initiated against it in the case of philanthropist and human rights defender Osman Kavala. Despite this disappointing picture, both the European Union and our country will continue to make the human rights situation in Turkey a central issue in our relations with Turkey. At the Belgian, bilateral, European and multilateral levels, we continue to raise these issues. At European level, issues important for Turkey are blocked – namely visa liberalisation or the modernisation of the customs union. Moreover, the accession negotiations are de facto suspended and there is no short-term prospect of a resumption of the process. Nevertheless, neither Turkey nor the European Union wishes at this stage to formally end the integration process, which nevertheless offers us a framework for dialogue with the Turkish authorities. As I said, the deterioration of human rights in Turkey is a major concern of Belgium. This issue is closely followed by our diplomatic posts in Ankara and Istanbul, as well as by Foreign Affairs in Brussels. There are ongoing contacts with Turkish civil society. The observation of trials of human rights defenders is one of the tools we use to demonstrate our support for these people. Belgium is particularly active in this field. In coordination with the other Member States of the European Union, our diplomats have thus attended or followed closely the trials in Turkey. Our presence alone must inform national and local authorities of our interest in a case. It is also important to assess whether or not the human rights defender has had access to a fair trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u17	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your full and diplomatic response. We must not let go of the issue of human rights and use a series of levers on both sides, the issue of visas being one. Another lever that the Turks have vis-à-vis Europeans is the migration issue. Europeans tend to dump on some of their neighbours, including Turkey, with a little ease, a migration burden, including the many asylum seekers who could have found more places on the European continent between 2015 and 2016. This is one of the points that will have to be settled in a peaceful relationship with Turkey, whether outside or within the European Union. Thank you for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u18	Madam President, Secretary of State, on 1 December 2021, the WHO agreed to work quickly on an international prevention tool to improve pandemic preparedness and response. On 3 March this year, the Council of the EU authorised the European Commission to launch these negotiations on that pandemic treaty, at least for matters falling within EU competence. The WHO aims to present a draft Convention by May 2024, at the 77th World Health Assembly. But the problem is that there is currently no consensus on the legal nature of the Convention. The EU and the United Kingdom want a strong legally binding text, while other partners, such as the United States, Brazil and India, are reluctant to do so. I would like to hear from you, Mr Secretary of State, an answer to the following questions. Can you tell us how the negotiations on the pandemic treaty within the WTO are evolving? What is the Belgian position on such a treaty? Does our country rather advocate a strictly binding text, such as those mentioned above, or would it prefer to leave more flexibility and sovereignty to the WTO Member States? Is Taiwan involved in the negotiations? If not, why should China be put under pressure, as is the case in other areas? As you will be aware, Taiwan has the necessary expertise in the fight against pandemics and we therefore believe that it should also be involved in international pandemic policy. What initiatives does Belgium take to ensure that Taiwan is involved in the work of the WHO and the World Health Assembly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u19	Ms Ponthier, in December 2021, at a special session of the World Health Assembly of the World Health Organisation, it was decided to set up a specific negotiating body: an intergovernmental NGO body, with the mandate to negotiate a new international instrument on pandemics. The work of this body was formally launched in February. A first draft of the new instrument is expected by mid-July. Belgium is following the negotiations closely. In an EU framework, Belgium advocates an instrument that contains both binding and non-binding provisions and is based on Article 19 of the WTO Constitution. In particular, Belgium aims to establish a framework agreement which lays down important obligations for future parties to the Convention with a view to improving international cooperation, in preventing and preparing and responding to future pandemics. For Belgium, the Convention should also strengthen the central and coordinating role of the WHO in the global health structure. The concern that the new treaty would affect the sovereignty of Member States seems to me to be unfounded. The international health regulation already contains binding agreements for WTO Member States, but given the lack of enforcement sanctions in the event of non-compliance, we saw during the COOVID-19 pandemic that these agreements were not always properly respected. In any case, the government will ensure that the new treaty or instrument does not violate our Constitution or the civil liberties it guarantees. I invite you to address further questions on the pandemic treaty to the Minister of Health. In the context of this unprecedented pandemic, Belgium advocates a WHO approach that no one leaves behind and which is inclusive. Leaving no one behind , due. Based on Taiwan's experience in managing pandemics and other public health challenges, our country considers it appropriate that Taiwan be invited as an observer to meetings of the World Health Assembly and that Taiwan's involvement in the technical work of the WHO be strengthened. This request, which is part of the One China policy, is based on the principle of meaningful participation, which Belgium defends in relation to Taiwan. With regard to the negotiations on the pandemic treaty, discussions are currently under way on the involvement in the work of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Body of stakeholders who do not have official relations with the WHO.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, your answer contains a number of positive things, including the obligation to increase international cooperation. The control of the pandemic, or the attempts to do so, has shown in recent years that this is absolutely necessary, but it must always be done with a view to sovereignty in certain areas for the Member States. That seems to me to be self-evident. As far as Taiwan is concerned, I take note of your response to ensure that Taiwan can play a role here. The other day, I stumbled upon something interesting. A Dutch doctor's association follows the business with argus eyes and from important criticism of this WTO pandemic treaty. The doctors are concerned that the WHO will impose measures on Member States that would be undemocratic and disproportionate, on the basis of untransparent models and data, on the basis of which the WHO itself decides that this is a pandemic threat. When we see the role of the organisation in the emergence of the whole pandemic and how it has been handled and the dubious role that it has played, I doubt that it will put a great deal of trust in that area. They also fear that certain lobbies will have a major influence on the WTO and will not always make public health a decisive factor. The fact that democracy and fundamental rights will be undermined again, as happened in the past during the corona crisis, is also a matter of concern. I think that we should be suspicious of this approach in some way, as opposed to the WTO's policy in this area. I hope that you will join me in this and that you will pay due attention to it. It's the least we can ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u21	Minister, on Friday 8 July 2022 Japanese former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was murdered. Japan is a country where street crime is very rare and where there is also very strict arms legislation. However, ex-Prime Minister Abe of the Liberal Democratic Party was shot last Friday during a speech in response to the Japanese parliamentary elections. For the other details, please refer to the question submitted. Mr Secretary of State, I have a few questions about this. Can you indicate the circumstances in which the murder was committed? I know the investigation is still ongoing, so I suspect that you cannot give details on this, but have you been in contact with the Japanese Foreign Minister or our Ambassador to Japan? If so, what were those contacts? How do you estimate the political impact of the murder on the elections and the political system in Japan? Since such a thing can happen in Japan, we all hope, of course, that this cannot happen in a Western country, but that is not your right to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u22	Mrs Ponthier, as you point out in your question, former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was shot in Nara during a speech he made in the context of the forthcoming Senate elections in Japan on 10 July. The former prime minister later died in the hospital from his injuries. The unsub was arrested immediately after the facts. The police are investigating the case now. Prime Minister De Croo expressed his condolences on behalf of the government to the Japanese government, the population and the family of the lamented, on the basis of a public message, as well as a letter addressed to current Prime Minister Kishida. The administration has also contacted the Japanese ambassador and the embassy in Brussels to express our condolences and our support. Such an attack on a political figure is highly unusual in Japan, which is generally very safe and hardly has any weapons violence. The Prime Minister has condemned this reprehensible crime in his writing. It is too early to assess the repercussions of the murder of former Prime Minister Abe on the political landscape in Japan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 55029519C Mr Moutquin's 55029554C has been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, the European Centre for Democracy and Human Rights regularly denounces the distressing situation in Bahrain's prisons. In Jau's prison, one of the most important prisons in the country, there would be an outbreak of tuberculosis. The prison is very overcrowded, there are no adequate sanitary facilities for the inmates and no access to quality food, clean water and hygiene facilities. This was also mentioned by other organisations, such as Amnesty International. In addition, Bahrain has a bad reputation for giving space to the political opposition and arbitrary arrests and detention. Moreover, political or prisoners of conscience are deliberately denied access to medical care, including after TB contamination. Such practices are, of course, unacceptable. Has this been raised internationally? Is it being discussed at European level? Has Belgium taken initiatives in the past or is it prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u25	Mrs Van Hoof, first of all I would like to stress that the general human rights situation in Bahrain, as in other countries, is receiving our continuing attention. Both our Kuwait Embassy, responsible for Bahrain, and the services in Brussels are following developments in Bahrain with the greatest attention. The issue of human rights is also systematically addressed in bilateral talks, both administratively and politically. This was the case, for example, at the last meeting between Minister Wilmès and her Bahraini counterpart in February of this year, in the margins of the meeting between the Council of the European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. In concrete terms, the covid pandemic showed that the sanitary facilities in Bahrain's prisons are often inadequate. The death of Abbas Malallah in Jau's prison last year also gave rise to serious questions and concerns. I would like to refer to the comments and recommendations made by the Human Rights Committee in Geneva to the Bahraini authorities. Bahrain is also a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which it ratified in 2006. Bahrain is therefore bound by its obligations under the Treaty. I can assure you that the human rights situation remains important in our dialogue with Bahrain, both at Belgian and European and multilateral level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u26	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply and for monitoring the situation at bilateral, European and multilateral level. It is a country that we are hearing little about, but it is important that we continue to follow up on such countries. Human rights apply everywhere and are universal, especially for people in a vulnerable or dependent position, such as prisoners. Thank you for continuing to raise this issue in all kinds of forums.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u27	Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, since the three questions are well drafted, I refer to the written texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u28	Mr President, you have introduced a number of questions relating to the conflict in Ukraine. With regard to the Lugano conference, an international conference on the reconstruction of Ukraine held on 4 and 5 July, the aim of the conference was to enable Ukraine to present its reconstruction plan and to address its immediate needs in the context of the conflict, but also with a view to reconstruction in the short and longer term. A set of principles for the reconstruction of the country, called the Lugano Principles, were adopted. These include the importance of reforms, transparency, accountability, the rule of law, sustainability, democratic participation and gender equality. The Lugano conference was not a donor conference, as has been the case in recent months. During her speech in Lugano, the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen announced the organisation of a high-level conference after the summer dedicated to the reconstruction of the country. It is within this European framework that Belgium intends to register. For the time being, our country has not yet announced any bilateral assistance for the reconstruction of Ukraine. Nor has it defined a region of the country to which our aid would be directed. A reflection is under way to define specific sectors in which our aid could be most effective. The use of Russia's frozen assets, both those belonging to the Russian State and those of the oligarchs, to finance the reconstruction of Ukraine requires careful legal study. This issue is currently under discussion between the member countries of the European Union and the European Commission. Our country advocates a common European and Western approach. Regarding the reopening of our embassy in Kiev, it took place on Monday, 11 July. The team consists of two diplomats and a defence team. Its reopening was conditioned by credible and convincing security frameworks to cover the main identified security risks. I will not go into the details, which you will understand. In Kiev, our Ambassador will play his full role as representative of Belgium to the Ukrainian authorities. It will inform the Belgian Government of developments in the country and will transmit the messages Belgium wishes to send to Ukraine. It will act as a privileged channel of contact with the Ukrainian authorities and will participate in the regular coordination which takes place in Kiev between the representatives of the Member States of the European Union. It will contribute to the intra-governmental reflection on the issues of military support and humanitarian assistance that our country will continue to provide to Ukraine, as well as on Belgium's eventual support for reconstruction and structural reforms that the country will have to tackle as soon as the military conflict permits. For security reasons, both for staff and for Belgian nationals, it is currently not considered desirable to reopen a public consular support window. At the same time, for the time being, we do not have any indication of a strong demand for consular support. The consular assistance provided from the Belgian Embassy in Poland is considered satisfactory by the few Belgian citizens, mainly binationals, who decided to stay in Ukraine. The majority of the other Member States of the European Union are currently adopting a similar policy. Citizens' demand and local needs will be reassessed on a regular basis. As far as the export of Ukrainian wheat is concerned, I am aware of the information relayed by the press about the Russian ship Zhibek Zholy detained for several days, from 5 to 7 July, off the Turkish port of Karasu. He was arrested by Turkish customs officers on the basis of a request from the Ukrainian justice system that suspected that the cargo of wheat came from areas occupied by the Russian army in Ukraine and was therefore transporting stolen wheat to Ukraine. The Russian authorities seem to have given convincing explanations as to the origin of the cargo. We note that the Turkish authorities seem not to have been convinced of the illegality of the cargo and have released the ship. This event created tensions in the diplomatic relations between Turkey and Ukraine. This episode will need to be monitored both at European and multilateral level in order to obtain full clarity. We cannot allow Russia to take advantage of the Ukrainian resources that Moscow would have illegally appropriated. At the same time, the risks of serious food shortages urge us to make every effort to enable the legal export of Ukrainian agri-food resources. Turkey has so far played a constructive role in the export of Ukrainian cereals. Turkish diplomacy is working with the United Nations Secretary-General to create a maritime corridor to export Ukrainian cereals through the Black Sea. The Turkish authorities are using their relations with the two belligerents to advance this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. As far as the Lugano conference is concerned, I have already had the opportunity to tell the Prime Minister that Belgium must accelerate the pace. Indeed, many Member States have already chosen areas, topics and themes for reconstruction, sometimes for several months. I went to Ukraine two months ago. At the time, a number of Member States of the European Union already knew very well how and where to operate. I therefore regret that Belgium is lagging behind in this matter. I hope that for the European Union conference to be held in November, we will have a clearer roadmap. We must already be part of the reconstruction of this country because it is a very important element for the future. In any case, I will be very careful that we are on the bridge because it is important to give this hope of rebuilding the country from Russian assets. You will not be surprised to learn that I believe that these assets should contribute to the reconstruction of Ukraine. I therefore hope that it is within this framework that the Member States of the European Union will work. With regard to my second question, I welcome the reopening of the Belgian Embassy in Kiev. It's about time! I note that we are talking about a team of two diplomats and a defence team. I am surprised that you said that there is no request for consular support. It's not the echoes I get. It seems to me very important that we are back, like most of the Member States of the European Union. As for my third question concerning this famous Russian ship boarded by the Turkish authorities, I note that he left without a transponder, thus violating the rules of navigation. I also note that you refer to press information. I imagine you have something other than press information at your disposal. If it were indeed wheat stolen from Ukraine, that would be totally unacceptable and Turkey would then be complicit in that theft. I also mean Turkey's efforts to ensure that there is a proper export of Ukrainian wheat. It is important that we can contribute to a legitimate export and, where appropriate, to participate with our demining vessels, as the Netherlands has recently proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u30	Minister, for some time the Erdogan regime has been threatening a new invasion of northern Syria. Erdogan announced on 27 June that the operation would begin as soon as the "Border Preparations" were completed. Turkey is determined to use "all its political, economic and military capabilities to achieve its goals by 2023". The autonomous administration of northern and eastern Syria declared a general state of emergency on 6 July. The security situation continues to deteriorate. It is certain that the Turkish State wants to trigger a new military invasion of Syrian territory in a completely illegal and illegitimate manner, since the Syrian Kurds have never carried out attacks on Turkish territory. The Kurds of Syria are our allies in the fight against the Islamic State, whose cells are still active, as evidenced by the recent massive attack on Hasakah prison, where some of our nationals are being held. President Erdogan also announced that he would travel to Tehran on 19 July. This visit is probably related to the planned military operation in Tall Rifat. What is the action of Belgium and the EU to prevent and condemn any further attacks on Syrian territory under the autonomous management of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF)? If Turkey considers itself threatened, should it not refer to Article 5 of the NATO Charter? Are there any discussions at the last NATO summit on the situation on the border between Turkey and Syria? Have any Kurds from Syria been sacrificed as a price for Turkey's green light for Finland's and Sweden's accession to NATO? Should we not fear a strengthening of the threats of the Islamic State as a consequence of the weakening of the SDS and therefore of the risks to our security? What impact could these threats and a future invasion have on cooperation between Turkey and NATO Member States, particularly in the context of the war in Ukraine? How do you look at the next visit of Erdogan and Putin to Tehran on 19 July?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u31	Mr President, President Erdogan announced several weeks ago the intention of Turkey and its armed forces to conduct a new military operation in northern Syria, without specifying the timing. If this information is confirmed, it will be the third Turkish military operation against the YPG, the Kurdish militia that dominates the Syrian democratic forces - the first two operations took place in January 2018 in North-East Syria, in Afrin, and in October 2019 in the North-West. Turkey believes that the main component of the Syrian democratic forces, the YPG, and its political arm, the PYD, are affiliated with the Turkish PKK. For Ankara, these formations constitute only one terrorist organization – which, according to Ankara, justifies military intervention, even outside the national territory. A new Turkish intervention in northern Syria would be at the expense of the struggle against Daesh, in which Syrian democratic forces play a key role. That would be regrettable. The European Union and Belgium have not, at this stage, reacted to the announcements made by the Turkish authorities. We hope that such an operation will not take place. For the time being, there is no indication of the imminence of a large-scale operation, although an intensification of violence between the Turkish forces and the YPG cannot be ruled out. Since mid-April, Turkey has been engaged in another major military operation outside its southern borders: Operation Claw-Lock, which is taking place in the northern part of Iraq. It is more than likely that a new incursion into Northern Syria will negatively affect Turkey's relations with its Western partners. However, at this stage, it seems prudent not to speculate on this. Turkish intervention in northern Syria was not on the agenda of the NATO Summit in Madrid. I would also like to point out that the agreement concluded between Turkey, Sweden and Finland commits only its signatories politically. I would also point out that Turkey has not invoked Article 5 of the NATO Charter in its fight against the YPG. With regard to the latter, such an invocation would be delicate, since the group's attacks on the Turkish army and its Syrian substitutes are confined to Syrian territory. It is also likely that Turkey will consult with Russia and Iran before launching a military operation in Syria. The areas that could be targeted by this intervention, even by the Turkish authorities, are close to Russian positions and Shiite militias. It is therefore likely that this will be a topic for discussion during President Erdogan's next visit to Iran, scheduled for 19 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u32	Secretary of State, you answer me, if I may, by words that seem contradictory to me. On the one hand, you are telling me that we should not speculate on an attack that could take place, and on the other hand, you are telling me that the visit to Tehran has the effect of reassuring both Iran and Russia that, given that they are in the area, these countries could be affected or affected by an attack by Turkey in northern Syria. So I'm still very worried and I think it's all there for an attack. I think that we should not make the mistake we made in Ukraine, that is to say, turning our eyes away. On the contrary, we must be very assertive and very clear about Turkey about the possible consequences of this further destabilization of this area. We have to think about our security, because indeed it is still the SDS, the YPGs, who keep our citizens today. We still have a dozen Belgian nationals in their detention centres there. Our own security is at stake in the event of Turkey's attack on this border, which I repeat would be illegal and illegitimate. I am drawing the alarm at this disturbing development.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u33	"Mr. Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, the country is going through an extremely serious crisis, and it is difficult at present to determine a way out of this situation, as events are shaking up. This is caused by several elements. The attacks that hit the country in April 2019 and the covid crisis have greatly reduced the income generated by tourism, a sector essential to the Sri Lankan economy. But the discontent of the people is also directed against the power in place, and especially against the clan of the running president, who is accused of mismanagement. We are following closely the situation and our embassy in New Delhi, whose jurisdiction extends to Sri Lanka, regularly reports on developments on the ground, including the attitude of India and China. Sri Lanka is indeed a country where the interests of both countries are very present. Belgium's action is mainly within the framework of European policy. Belgium therefore supports the statement of 10 July, issued by the spokesman for the High Representative Borrell, in which he calls for a peaceful transition. It reminds political leaders of their responsibility to find a solution to the crisis. Mr Borrell also pointed out that the European Union was currently analysing all the avenues available to provide more assistance to the population. The European Union's development assistance programmes are currently being reviewed in line with priority needs. Of course, we continue to monitor the situation closely and we are following the efforts made to help Sri Lanka overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u35	I thank the Secretary of State. I share his concern and will follow the situation closely myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u36	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u37	The services of the FPS Foreign Affairs Department are not aware of such an ad hoc tribunal. Belgium is not in principle in favour of the multiplication of international criminal tribunals. At the nineteenth session of the meeting of States Parties to the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court in The Hague in December 2020, Belgium, through its Foreign Minister, stated that it would be useful to examine the possibility of including the crime ecocide in the Rome Statute system as part of the work of the forthcoming sessions. Belgium, including during events in the margins of international conferences, takes the opportunity to point out to the international community the need to also take criminal action against environmental damage. In doing so, it is important to take account of the work carried out at national level with a view to the possible addition of the ecocide crime to the Criminal Code. This could, if necessary, provide the basis for coherent support for diplomatic initiatives with a view to their recognition at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u38	The criticism of the Flemish interest of the resolution adopted to include ecocide in international criminal law instruments is well known: crimes against the environment and health must of course be prosecuted, but there are already procedures for it. It was therefore absolutely not appropriate for Belgium to take the lead in setting up a tribunal. In any case, I note that there are no plans for this at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, last year there were violent protests in several Cuban cities against President Diaz-Canel's communist dictatorship. The protests were violently knocked down and hundreds of people were randomly arrested, in particular prominent dissidents and journalists. It is reported that 500 people have already been sentenced in response to these protests and hundreds of people are still in prison pending their trial. Recently Cuba passed new laws to severely punish protests. Of course, the new rules will not happen. Have you had any recent contact with your Cuban counterpart or the Cuban authorities about the human rights situation? What is your opinion on the new laws in Cuba to punish protests more severely? You don't think that goes against the right to freedom of speech? Will you raise this in international forums or have you already done so? In 2017, the then Belgian ambassador to Havana talked about the extensive diplomatic, economic, scientific and cultural ties between Cuba and Belgium. Will you re-evaluate bilateral relations with Cuba in the light of human rights violations? Will financial support and cooperation with the regime be subject to drastic review and/or suspension?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u40	Mrs Samyn, with regard to human rights in Cuba, we are concerned about developments. Our bilateral talks pay particular attention to respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Belgium and Cuba will be holding the exact date in the coming weeks, yet to be set, political consultations at administrative level, the theme of which will be human rights. Belgium encourages the Cuban authorities to open up dialogue with critical members of Cuban civil society on every occasion. During the previous Universal Periodic Review of Cuba, the authorities of the country accepted a Belgian recommendation. It concerns in particular the public recognition of the role and work of members of civil society and the taking of the necessary steps to ensure that human rights defenders and members of civil society can exercise their right to freedom of expression, assembly and association in accordance with Cuba's international obligations. Belgium subscribes to the EU's action, in particular within the framework of the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the EU and Havana. The third political dialogue between the EU and Cuba under the DCA took place in Havana from 10 to 13 June. Although the emphasis was on cooperation and sustainable development, the human rights situation in Cuba was also raised. With regard to the new laws, Belgium will continue to press the Cuban authorities to respect the civil and political rights of the Cuban people, including freedom of association, peaceful assembly and expression. The right to demonstrate is enshrined in the Cuban Constitution and Cuba is a signatory to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Bilateral cooperation with Cuba is mainly concerned with non-governmental cooperation through syndicated actors and with academic cooperation with Belgian academic institutions. Supporting civil society in a country contributes to democratisation, strengthening the capacity of the population and a human rights approach. This cooperation does not preclude representatives of the Belgian Government from raising the issue of respect for human rights during bilateral contacts with representatives of the Cuban Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic856x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, yesterday was our Flemish holiday. For the Cubans, July 11 is a symbol of the day they lost their fear. On 11 July last year they came on the streets to demand the end of the communist regime. We all know how those protests ended. We saw with horror how the Cuban authorities brutally beat down the protesters. Hundreds of arrests were made. Still holding those prisoners of conscience, waiting for their trial. Since those protests, we have seen an increase in repression. Human rights are not respected in Cuba. There is repression and violence against opponents. Freedom of the press is virtually nonexistent. Every critical voice is silenced by violence. There are intimidations, travel restrictions, detention. There is also a taboo about which there is too much silence, namely hoebi rights. Holebi's are marked in Cuba, with all the consequences. It is good to hear that Belgium will maintain political contacts with Cuba in the coming months. I hope that it will also be made clear that Cuba is going too far, especially in the area of human rights violations. For my party, these bilateral relations really need to be re-evaluated. Any form of financial support and cooperation needs to be radically reviewed. It would be incomprehensible for Belgium to maintain contacts with such dictatorial regimes. It is also regrettable that there is a great deal of friendship between that communist regime and Belgium.
