ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u1	Online identification via an identity card reader or application is a phenomenon that is constantly increasing, especially since the outbreak of the global pandemic. Indeed, these tools have many positive points such as the reduction of contacts – which goes in the right direction – or the automation of administrative procedures. In addition, several ministers, including the Minister of the Interior in her NPG, have indicated that they wish to speed up the digitisation of the identification of citizens. Although the aim is to simplify administrative procedures, it should not be forgotten that the Belgian population as a whole still does not have full and direct access to the digital and computer tools required for online identification in 2022. Thus, and as indicated by Ms Verlinden, a pre-study phase on mobile identity has already been carried out by BOSA. My questions are as follows: Can you give us some details of these preliminary results? Have any risks to the privacy of citizens been identified? What concrete follow-up will be given to this study? Will a Privacy Impact Assessment be prepared or has it already been prepared? What is the upcoming schedule for this project? What do you intend to do to ensure that no fringes of the population are left behind with regard to online identification on the various federal platforms? Is maintaining a "100% public" identification system one of the options studied? As cyberterrorism continues to gain in danger, how can you ensure the digital identity security of our citizens? How do you work with your colleagues to protect the digital identity of our citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u2	Your question allows me to come back to a very particular project that is close to my heart, in this case the digital portfolio. As you said, the SPF BOSA and the Interior SPF have actually worked on a proof of concept for a digital identity. – digital identity – mobile. It is a question of having an identity available on a computer device without necessarily using physical support. This proof of concept is fully aligned with the proposed revision of the eIDAS Regulation. This European proposal provides that each Member State will have to make available free of charge to citizens within 12 months of the entry into force of the eIDAS Regulation, provided for at the earliest in 2023, a European digital identity wallet. In our country, the Belgian digital portfolio will meet these standards. It will take the form of an app that can be used on a smartphone, with a digital identity and identification services to authenticate on-line services. This pre-study of the SPF validated the general concepts of privacy and data security. It must now be followed by a more comprehensive analysis. In 2022, the BOSA FPS and the Interior FPS will work together to develop this digital identity that will provide the same level of security as the electronic ID card. The development of this digital portfolio will, of course, be accompanied by an impact assessment on the protection of personal data. As a reminder, the digital portfolio must allow identification, by means of a notified national electronic identification scheme, the storage and sharing of attributes, both online and offline, and the creation of qualified electronic signatures. It will also provide citizens and businesses with access to public data and services that concern them, as well as greater transparency and confidence. It will therefore contain electronic identity, passport, driver's license, etc., but will also provide access to My e-Box, e-loket, eSafe, which are all applications made available to citizens. I have set these administrations as a goal that every Belgian can have such a digital portfolio as early as 2023. In this context, every citizen will have full control over his digital portfolio and the use of his personal data. In this process of digitisation of identity, it is out of the question of leaving some citizens on the side. This digital identity is the result of a deliberate and enlightened choice. The digital portfolio will be complementary to existing services and everyone will be free to use it. The identity card and accompanying documents, as used today, will continue to exist in paper form for as long as necessary. Similarly, specifically with regard to online identification, the needs of the different fringes of the population are constantly taken into account. Several types of key are currently available: eID, which everyone owns, but which requires a card reader; itsme®, for smartphone holders; but also a key that only requires access to an email address, i.e. a key consisting of a security code with limited validity, sent by email. Accessibility to these systems for all and support for all in their administrative processes is essential. In order to achieve this in concrete terms, we are currently working on projects that you will discover in the coming weeks, and which are really aimed at providing everyone with access to these new digital tools, as long as they choose to do so. It should be noted that the digital portfolio is a public development project. Identity management remains a regal function. The provider of identity remains the government, but partnerships with the private sector are also being considered for derivative services. The identification system is developed, maintained and operated by the SPF BOSA and is usable by administrations at all levels of power. The main digital keys are owned by the public sector, but the system also incorporates private sector keys, such as Itsme I just mentioned. This makes it possible to offer a whole range of keys that are user-friendly, secure and tailored to each individual's needs. Finally, with regard to the security of the online identification system, applications and information are secured according to a regularly updated information security policy. Analysis and audits are carried out on a regular basis in collaboration with the Centre for Cyber Security in Belgium and help to continuously improve security. The digital portfolio project will follow the same requirements and, in addition, it will have to be certified according to the requirements of the eIDAS regulation, as I had previously stated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, allow me to express my thanks to you, since this is a complete, precise and structured answer that answers all my questions. This is an important project that you have detailed well. I will not fail to follow the file and come back to you in the second half of the year to find out the status of its progress. I look forward to the arrival of my PS colleague. Our party is mass, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u4	It's really the PS army that came into our commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u5	Question No 55024728C by Mrs Marianne Verhaert is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u6	Mrs. Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, a malicious software called BRATA has been circulating on the web for three years. Designed as a Trojan horse, it began to spread on the Google Play Store as a fake WhatsApp update to Android users in Brazil; 10,000 people were allegedly injured. Like the covid, this computer virus then exported to Europe and transferred to tackle the data of European banking applications this time, with hackers perfectly imitating the logos of the major agencies. BRATA would thus be able to recover sensitive information in order to steal money from a bank account and make an Android smartphone unusable after its passage. According to some sources, BRATA has been active since December in the United Kingdom, Poland and Italy. It should logically extend to other countries. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any knowledge of Android users who are victims of the BRATA virus in Belgium, attesting to its circulation in our country? Do you have a counter-attack strategy against BRATA, possibly in consultation with other European countries also affected by this software? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u8	Member, thank you for your question. First of all, before I go into the answer itself, I would really like to make it clear that today, in the field of digital security, we are all involved in this security. Indeed, cybersecurity or digital security in a global way concerns both SMEs and police and government services. It is an essential element to have in mind. Despite the fact that the vigilance of citizens is increasingly bearing fruit, phishing continues to cause many victims. In 2020, the federal police saw an increase of 204% in the number of phishing victims compared to 2009, with a total of 7,502 reports. All I'm talking about here is reports. In 2020, cybercriminals carried out 67,000 fraudulent transactions, for a total net amount of 34 million euros. In addition, 12% of Belgians have never heard of phishing. For young people, this percentage may even reach 30%, according to Febelfin figures in 2020. Thus, among the risks of phishing, one can identify the BRATA virus that you cite in your question. It is malicious software that is able, among other things, to steal sensitive personal data, including pin codes, passwords, GPS coordinates, and to capture data related to banking applications installed on the victim's device. The target countries include Spain, the United States and, since December 2021, the United Kingdom, Poland, Italy and Latin America, with Brazil leading. To date and according to CWB figures, no victims have been reported in Belgium. The CWB has not received any reports about this and commercial sources tracking malware do not report cases in Belgium. By 2019, Google has blocked this malware, which means it can no longer be downloaded to Google Play Store by devices equipped with an Android system. However, BRATA continues to spread via phishing messages sent by SMS. Today, the strategy to combat this type of virus is mainly based on user awareness. Indeed, the scope of action ranges from human vulnerability to state-of-the-art technological measures. Several preventive measures can be taken to prevent the spread of this virus or any other malware: - do not download mobile applications whose developer is not clearly identified; - never download an application via a hyperlink received via a suspicious text message; - ensure that the authorisations requested by an application are consistent with the purpose of the application; - never reduce the safety of the device at the request of an application; - ensure that all applications and software of a device are updated with the latest security pages; - install a good up-to-date anti-malware and activate protection in real time or, if a user is infected with it, disable applications with management privileges and uninstall these applications in safe mode and reset their device. I realize that my answer is very precise about the vade mecum of the perfect digital security protector. In addition, the CWB has created an e-mail address to which the citizen can send suspicious messages, whether they are emails or text messages: suspect@safeonweb.be, e-mail address communicated by the CWB. It is possible to block suspicious links in these messages via its email addresses. In 2021, the CWB received 4.5 million suspicious messages from citizen alerts, an average of almost 12,000 messages per day. He was thus able to notify more than 1.4 million fraudulent websites to Google and Microsoft that blocked them. By 2020, there were still nearly 3.2 million messages received by the CWB and 667,000 blocked sites. Similarly, the CWB sends about 27,000 redirects a day to a secure page, after clicks by Belgian users on malicious links. If a person clicks on a malicious link, they will receive a clear alert message warning them not to surf on this page. In this way, everyone can contribute to a secure digital environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your full answer. You're right to report it, cybersecurity is everyone's business. In an ideal world, awareness-raising among the general public should be further increased. Indeed, it does not happen a week without one of our contacts being trapped, sometimes by clicking on a link that aims to penetrate its social networks, sometimes to phish or collect data, even banks. To return to the malicious software BRATA, I am glad to hear that our country seems to be spared for the time being. This is in any case what the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre (CBC) has confirmed to you, since there have been no complaints. For the rest, we must remain vigilant and continue to have real binding and structural measures to fight for cybersecurity. We also need to increase the awareness of the general public so that we are all actors in this cybersecurity, without being trapped so easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic738x.u10	Question No 5, by Mr De Vries (H- 55025421C by Mrs Dierick is postponed.
