ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u1	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to see so many of you together! Since the crisis of the covid, I have not attended many commissions where so many people were present. That's very impressive. I hope that we will find all these rooms very quickly. I would like to begin by thanking you for inviting us to discuss with you the situation in Mali and its broader impact on the Sahel. It is a priority geographical area for Belgium and the European Union. It is currently undergoing important developments, but it is true. At the start of Mali, the continuing deterioration of the security, humanitarian and now political situation has accelerated further. It is therefore the subject of increased attention by the Union, the region and the international community as a whole. I will begin by setting the framework for our discussions today. When we talk about the Sahel, we talk about the G5 Sahel: Mali, Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Niger, Chad. But the challenges of the Sahel also affect, and even more and more, other West African countries, such as the Lake Chad basin, part of Nigeria or the north of several Gulf of Guinea states. As we know, the most acute crisis concerns Mali. So it is above all this country that I will talk about. Given the complexity of the challenges in the Sahel, we must use the instruments at our disposal in a coherent and effective way. Therefore, in the light of the Belgian presence in the Sahel, all actors and instruments of our foreign policy have been brought together on the basis of an overall approach previously referred to as 3D, which stands for Defence, Diplomacy & Development. This global approach implies the cooperation of all services in a spirit of complementarity and mutual support. Our Sahel policy is also part of international action, in particular that of the European Union, which is a powerful lever at all levels: political level, security, development and humanitarian level. We also support initiatives to coordinate and mobilise international efforts, in particular through the Coalition for the Sahel. In concrete terms, this translates into the presence of Belgian embassies in Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. These embassies deal with political dossiers and development and defence issues. The three countries are therefore the focal countries of Belgian development cooperation and Defence employs staff. There is also non-governmental cooperation, for example through our support programmes for civil society and universities. However, in the spirit of the global approach, Belgian investment in the field goes beyond that. The Federal Police, the Federal Public Service Justice and other entities are also sending staff to EUCAP Mali. Seven Belgians are currently involved. The purpose of the European civilian mission is to advise and train the Malian police and gendarmerie. We are also present at other European initiatives. In the framework of the European military mission EUTM Mali, the Belgian Defence is currently deploying a dozen people to train Malian military personnel and advise the general staff in Bamako. In addition, some 20 Belgian blue helmets are active in the UN peace mission MINUSMA. Finally, three officers are active in the General Staff of Task Force Takuba and the Barkhane Force. These efforts are part of a major international effort in which France, African countries and other EU Member States already use significant resources. MINUSCA is the largest peace mission in the world, both in terms of budget and staff, with about 15,000 people. However, it is also the mission in which most of the victims have been killed. The expansion of insecurity and terrorism, criminal trafficking and violent radicalism pose a threat not only to Mali and the region as a whole, but also to the south-eastern neighbourhood of the European Union and potentially to Belgium. The destabilization of the Sahelian States and the possible risk of collapse are phenomena that need our full attention. I would add that the issue of irregular migration is also a concern. While currently migration from Sahelian countries to Belgium remains limited, there is still an important transit area. Finally, the EU and Belgium must also defend and promote values that are an integral part of our relations with the countries of the Sahel. However, in a geographical area that attracts the interest of many actors, we do not want these values to be the cost of geopolitical competition. This is an integral part of our commitment and our global approach. This dimension helps to make Belgium a trusted partner for the Sahel. It is considered by the Sahelian countries as a neutral actor, without a hidden agenda. It is also a region with which we have many affinities, especially cultural ones, such as la francophonie, or associatives, with the many human and interpersonal ties that unite us. I would like to return to the chronology of events in Mali. It will provide us with insight into today's problems. Since the end of the 2000s, the situation has been unsafe in Mali. In 2012, Mali lost control of a large part of its territory, but France's intervention at the request of Bamako and the election of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta brought the situation somewhat to a normal. Unfortunately, the peace agreement with the former rebels of the north has never really been implemented and the security situation and the political and humanitarian situation have gradually deteriorated. A large part of the population criticises the current administration and sues cases of corruption and impunity. This movement took on a large scale in the spring of 2020 following the publication of the results of the parliamentary elections, the legitimacy of which was generally questioned. It is in this context that the army overthrown President Keïta in August 2020. ECOWAS, supported by the entire international community, negotiated with the junta. The legitimacy of the junta was recognised under two conditions. On the one hand, elections should be held by February 2022 at the latest. On the other hand, until these elections, citizens should be appointed to the posts of Prime Minister and President. This period is called the transition, la transition. In May 2021, Colonel Goita, leader of the military, declared himself President of the transition in a second coup d'état. In all these events, it should be noted that the ongoing mediation efforts with the junta of the Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS. Belgium has supported these efforts in the belief that a regional solution was the most legitimate and effective, rather than an intervention from outside the continent. Since the second coup, we have witnessed two particularly worrying developments. On the one hand, Mali has seen the return to constitutional order constantly postponed and, on the other hand, the junta has taken the decision to appeal to the Russian private company Wagner. Indeed, after the holding of what the Malian regime called "national foundations for the re-foundation", this transitional period, originally scheduled to end in February 2022, was extended from six months to five years. The return to democracy was therefore simply hypothecated. At the same time, there has been a strengthening of the regime in the form of human rights abuses, arrests of political opponents and journalists. Concerned by the growing desire of the junta to remain in power, ECOWAS imposed targeted sanctions in November 2021 against 149 Malian representatives of the executive, legislative and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u2	Madam Secretary, it's fast for translation. We have time!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u3	I'm sorry! Relax. We actually have time. That's right! It's 3:00. Cool! Forgive me, gentlemen, ladies! I'll take it back. This first package of sanctions did not begin the intransigence of the Malian transitional authorities. Accordingly, on 9 January 2021 ECOWAS and the West African Economic and Monetary Union adopted a series of economic sanctions against Mali, including the closure of its borders with ECOWAS member States and the imposition of an economic and financial embargo. If these measures are drastic, they do not concern commodities, such as food, fuel or medicines that are still allowed to cross borders. Once again, in a spirit of seeking African solutions to African problems, a principle advocated by the African Union itself, Belgium joined the States members of the European Union supporting ECOWAS. That is why, as a concrete sign of European support for the region, last December the European Union created an ad hoc legal framework. Its objective is also to sanction those who promote the undue extension of the transition in Mali. While Belgium supported the principle of adopting targeted sanctions, it also called for further dialogue. I therefore pleaded to the Foreign Affairs Council on 24 January 2022 for a final diplomatic initiative to be taken at the EU-G5 Sahel ministerial meeting on 26 January 2022. I have been joined in this by a number of European colleagues who have also advocated a dual track approach, i.e. an approach aimed at preparing restrictive measures, while leaving room for maintaining a channel of communication, and the search for solutions acceptable to all parties. In fact, it did not seem appropriate for me to decide, on 24 January, on a sanction, when High Representative Josep Borrell planned to hold a meeting with the stakeholders two days later. Unfortunately, at my meeting at the end of January with my Malian counterpart, I found that there was no concrete response to our fears about the extension of the transition. Belgium has therefore supported the adoption of targeted measures by the European Union which, since 4 February, target five leaders and influential figures closely linked to the junta for having obstructed the smooth running of the transition. In addition to the concerns of the international community about the slow return to democratic order, the unclear association of the junta with Wagner has provoked strong reactions from Mali's main partners. It is of course France, but also neighbouring countries such as Niger and Algeria. In the second half of 2021, Belgium took several steps with the Malian authorities to prevent Wagner from settling in Mali. In vain, because there is confirmation of a significant deployment of the Russian private militia Wagner. Wagner's presence in Mali raises a number of practical and operational problems. The supply of equipment to the Malian Armed Forces is questioned, but also the training courses of EUTM Mali, the participants of which could eventually be accompanied by Wagner. Risks could also arise from Wagner's presence in the area of EU Member States' armed forces within EUTM or MINUSMA. We share the fears of our partners. Any agreement between Bamako and these mercenaries runs counter to our priority for the region, such as good governance, responsibility, liability, respect for human rights, the fight against impunity, and the rule of law. On 13 December Belgium also approved the EU sanctions against the Wagner Group on the basis of its destructive actions around the world. It is clear that the Malian junta has embarked on an increasingly authoritarian and unpredictable course in the field of security and cooperation. In January 2022, the expulsion of the Danish contingent of the Task Force Takuba and the French Ambassador were new steps in the confrontation between the junta and its main partners. As I indicated, I therefore met with my Malian counterpart, Mr Diop, on 26 January 2022, during his stay in Brussels just before he met Josep Borrell. I regretted that the Malian authorities are moving away from our partnership. The actions they carry out, the decisions they take, the declarations they make and the conditions they impose threaten the continuation of our common efforts to stabilize Mali. The minister told me that the transition wanted to "recast Mali" and that it would take time, hence the postponement of the elections by four or five years. He also denied the presence of mercenaries in Mali stressing that it was an official co-op between his country and Russia. President Putin recently confirmed the presence of Russian commercial security companies in Mali and publicly denied any links between them and the Russian state. Minister Diop has also raised other grievances against some of his partners that he believes do not sufficiently respect Malian national sovereignty, a principle that the junta would carry very high. This visit to Brussels did not, unfortunately, lead to an end to the crisis. On the contrary, in the following days, Mali maintained the escalation by expelling the French ambassador. Since 2012 and so far, the situation in Mali has deteriorated steadily, despite considerable international commitment. The recent developments and attitudes of the junta call into question European and Belgian action in Mali. In the light of this development, we need to rethink the future of European and international engagement in Mali and the region. This could be done at a forthcoming meeting of the Sahel Coalition, in which all interested parties participate. The priorities of the Integrated EU Strategy for the Sahel remain relevant and provide a good basis for that reflection exercise. The current tensions must not cause us to lose sight of Mali's needs and, more generally, of the Sahel. We note that the state intervention in the region can count on wider support from the population. This indicates that citizens are hoping for change. It is appropriate to focus more on supporting change and reform. That would be consistent with what the population wants. Its demands often relate to the consolidation of democracy and go beyond elections alone. In the short term, however, the main objective in Mali remains the return to democratic and constitutional order. The questions raised by Wagner's presence in Mali must also be answered. A communication line with Mali must be maintained in order to determine with the transitional authorities the precise conditions for maintaining our presence and to remind the junta of its own promises. Therefore, Belgium considers it important that its commitments and those of the EU in Mali are maintained, albeit adjusted. This should make it possible to continue work on the reform and modernisation of the military, which is essential for the sustainable stabilisation of Mali. It is clear that in the near future the international community will have to increase its support for the coastal countries of the Gulf of Guinea: Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Togo and Benin. There is a regional security initiative, the Accra initiative, which was launched in 2017. How this should be supported should be defined. Lessons should be learned from the support given to the G5 Joint Forces for the Sahel. I am thinking in particular of greater importance for ownership, where the inhabitants of the Sahel are the main responsible for their own future, with our support, but that also means that we can speak openly if the root causes of the crisis are not adequately addressed, such as a lack of good governance. You understand that, in the light of recent events, the reflection is for the moment focused on the entire Belgian and European commitment to Mali. It is clear that Belgium intends to continue its engagement in the Sahel. Poverty and climate change, irregular migration, insecurity, violence and terrorism are all challenges that need to be addressed in an integrated manner. That is why we are continuing our close consultations with our partners, as I did yesterday with my counterparts from the countries most involved in the Sahel. Everyone agrees that we are at a key moment in our commitment and that the decisions we will make in the near future must live up to the challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, Belgium regards the Sahel as a priority strategic area. Restoring lasting stability in Mali is an essential condition for restoring full balance in the Sahel region. The stability of the Sahel, which is Europe's southern neighbourhood, is an important component of the security of European countries. An interdepartmental analysis carried out jointly with the SPF of Foreign Affairs and the SPF of Development Cooperation within the framework of the operational commitments for 2021 concluded that the Belgian Defence commitment to the Sahel should be part of the Belgian overall approach, which, in accordance with the principles of "Do No Harm" and non-interference, aims to contribute to a positive and sustainable development of the region, particularly in the area of development. Its action should be part of the efforts of the Sahel coalition and should remain consistent with all international efforts in the region, while maintaining its strategic and operational autonomy. Belgian Defence is widely recognised as a reliable and predictable partner by the Sahel states, without a hidden agenda and as an actor committed to peace and security in a multilateral context, such as the UN or the EU. Belgium supports the strengthening of the military capabilities of the G5 Sahel with due regard for their people and therefore with particular attention to respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. Our country, and Defence in particular, are always in favour of a balanced inter-departmental response, given the complex dimension of insecurity in the region, with terrorism, local, inter- and intra-Community violence, rebellion against a state with failed legitimacy, crime and violence of the armed forces and security forces and their powers of attorney. As has already been said, the action of Belgian Defence is part of the pillars of the Sahel coalition in order to support the countries of the Sahel G5 in the fight against the proliferation of armed terrorist groups and to support the progressive return of the rule of law to areas isolated or ganged by these groups. The fight against terrorism in the Sahel remains at the heart of our concerns. Not only in Mali, but also in the region, with ongoing or planned commitments in Niger or in the Gulf of Guinea countries, with particular attention to Benin. The commitments in Burkina Faso have been suspended as a result of the recent coup d'état. The political unrest in the region and the multiple coups that have taken place over the past few years are making sure that operational planning for our military engagements can be adjusted flexibly in the light of these circumstances. In doing so, we always strive to remain a credible partner in the multilateral context, as long as added value can be created, especially for the civilian population, which is constantly subject to violence. In addition, the assertive Russian attitude has its impact on our planned operations in Africa. The deployment and activities of Russian units and affiliated private militias or mercenaries in Mali and the Central African Republic put pressure on European and Belgian contributions in these operations. I would like to share with you the various Belgian military commitments under way or planned in the Sahel and the Gulf of Guinea. The UN Operation MINUSMA was established by UN Security Council Resolution 2100 on 25 April 2013 to support the political process in that country and to carry out a number of security tasks. Belgian Defence joined MINUSMA in August 2015, providing some military personnel at Bamako and Gao headquarters. From March 2017 to October 2018, Belgium assumed command of the mission in the person of General Deconinck and deployed about 30 people. It also provided a helicopter detachment in Gao and C-130 support from Bamako for approximately 50 personnel each. Since October 2018, Defence has deployed approximately 80 military personnel to support MINUSMA (about 10 in Bamako and about 70 in Gao). Belgium provided a multi-sensor reconnaissance platoon integrated into the German ISR company, as well as several support elements. The Belgian multi-sensor platoon was withdrawn in mid-2021 in order to grant an operational break to the unit. Belgium has been participating in the operation since mid-2021 with about ten soldiers as individual reinforcements, partly within the German task force in Gao, partly within Bamako HQ. Currently about 25 Belgian soldiers have been deployed in MINUSMA, of which five are integrated into a German military unit. With regard to EUTM Mali, on 18 February 2013, the European Union launched a military training mission in Mali (EUTM Mali) aimed at providing strategic advice and training to the Malian armed forces. The fifth and current mandate of EUTM Mali began on 20 September 2020 and continues until 18 May 2024. It included a regionalization of this mandate in Niger and Burkina Faso. Our military deployment within EUTM Mali started in March 2013 with a helicopter detachment of about 30 soldiers, followed by the deployment for a few months of a protection force company of about 80 soldiers at the Koulikoro Training Centre. Since 2013, we have also deployed several officers within the EUTM headquarters. From July 2016 to December 2017, Belgium assumed command of the EUTM mission and deployed 180 military personnel there. Since December 2017, our participation has focused on providing mobile training teams with the support of a total of 15 people in Bamako and Koulikoro. The various Belgian detachments in the Sahel are supported from Bamako by a logistical component of national support composed of some 15 military personnel. For MINUSMA and EUTM Mali, language barriers and the lack of multilingual military personnel - French and English - are problematic for the successful execution of missions. This is why the presence of Belgian soldiers who, for their part, are multilingual offers an appropriate and absolutely necessary solution. It is also highly appreciated by international partners. I'm coming to the Takuba Task Force. The Task Force Takuba is a French initiative, launched in 2019, with a multinational character. This initiative should allow better coordination and alignment of the special operations of the various countries present in the Sahel region. Within Mali, this task force advises the Malian troops and assists them and supports them during combat operations. Since 2021, Belgium has participated in the Task Force Takuba with a number of staff officers, who from their position can follow the coordination between the various missions in the region and support Belgian decision-making and intelligence gathering. As regards the evolution of this participation in the Takuba Task Force in Mali, discussions are planned in the coming days between ministers and heads of government of the countries participating in the operation. A concerted decision with partners on the future of the mission and the Takuba Task Force will be taken and communicated shortly. Due to the current attitude of the junta and, in particular, the non-compliance with the transition schedule and the lack of agreement with the presence of foreign troops, the conditions are no longer in place to consider the deployment of a Belgian CATSG at this stage. The reflection on the activities of the Task Force Takuba takes into account the possible impact on the international missions of MINUSMA and EUTM Mali. For Niger, after ad hoc cooperation with the Niger Special Forces of the Special Operations Command in 2015 and 2016, permanent long-term bilateral military cooperation with Niger was initiated at the end of 2017. This cooperation was launched on the basis of a clear road map to increase the resilience of Niger's security forces. The joint strategy for this purpose translates into a project of special forces generation based on the principle of localization strategy. This strategy seeks, on the one hand, to draw on existing local potential and, on the other hand, to build on a good understanding of local socio-economic and security problems. This makes it possible to offer contextualised solutions. In addition, this strategy is fully conducive to an interdepartmental approach in the Sahel. The Belgian campaign plan for this "Operation New Nero" mission in Niger consists of four phases. The first "Build Up" phase, which began at the end of 2017, established the conditions necessary for the execution of a military assistance mission in Niger, i.e. the definition of the necessary support, the acquisition of an understanding of the sufficient local context and the establishment of a sound working relationship with the command of Niger's special operations. During phase 2 "Training", the Niger security forces were educated according to the principles of localization strategy, with a main effort on the two special battalions of intervention assigned to Belgium, the 31st and 61st battalions. It is in this context that a Belgian detachment has been deployed in Maradi since September 2019, its mission being to form the 31st battalion following a specific Nigerian training programme. In September 2020, the New Nero operation moved to phase 3, Operations, with the ultimate objective of creating the resilience of the Nigerese units trained by Belgium. For this purpose, the performance of the Nigerese Companies Spéciales d.o.b.Intervention shall be measured during effective operations. The feedback resulting from this will be implemented in the Nigerian Centre of Entrainement de Forces Spéciales in Tillia. This centre is financially supported by Germany and is expected to become operational in 2022. Belgium also plans to participate with about five teachers from the start-up. At present, we are in favour of cooperation with Niger in the sub-phase 3B, which includes the guidance, support and evaluation of the previously trained Companies Spéciales d.o.b.Intervention in real operations in a context of the fight against terrorism. This will also provide the necessary insights to improve training and optimise the effects of Nigerian operations. More specifically, the objective of this 3B phase is to: - the construction of a co-located base for Belgian and Nigerian troops at Torodi from which Niger operations can be carried out; - the delivery of a minimum of equipment deemed necessary, provided by the Belgian Defence, in order to enable the Nigeri units to carry out their tasks effectively; - the self-assessment of Niger's capacity and the training programme developed, the implementation of the results obtained in a structural way via the special forces training centre in order to obtain an autonomous and properly equipped capacity; - the optimisation of the effects of Niger operations in order to contribute to the containment of the terrorist threat. The final phase is phase 4 called "Phasing out", during which Niger is able, autonomously, to implement the necessary changes. For this phase, Belgian Defence is moving towards a relaxation of its support to Niger's forces and, consequently, towards support limited by the presence of a small coordination detachment in Niamey. Defence continues to engage military personnel in Africa in support of regionally oriented national schools. These schools are national thematic schools with a regional vocation and are the result of a shared desire for training, with the aim of giving priority to ownership of the subject by the partner country through the transmission and sharing of know-how. The training provided in the training is generally related to safety: health, mine clearance, peacekeeping, logistics, management training, etc. The concept is based on training adapted to local realities. The transmission of essential technical and operational know-how to security and defence actors while taking into account regional integration by training both host and other countries on the continent. Defence has supported some schools for many years, such as in Benin, or other schools more recently. In 2021, Defence sent detachments of instructors to schools in the Sahel region, including the Institute of Logistics in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, the School of Paramedical Personnel of the Niamey Army in Niger, the G5 Sahel Defense College in Mauritania and the Centre for Development of Post-Conflict Demining and Depollution Actions in Benin. The cooperation between Defence and Benin started in 1999 and has developed over time in the fields of Land, Air and Sea or in the area of demining. After several years of previously limited cooperation, mainly due to budgetary constraints and operational requirements on other theatres, Defense has gradually resumed its cooperation with the Benin armed forces. In addition to the above mentioned formations, Belgium will cooperate with France in the project to secure the northern borders of Benin by participating in the employment and training of the river capacities. In addition, in the framework of a collaboration with Enabel, Defence contributes expertise in supporting the port sector in Benin. Maritime security in the territorial waters of West Africa and in the Gulf of Guinea in particular is threatened by piracy, drug smuggling and illegal fishing. Defence has therefore been sending experts to exercises aimed at improving cooperation between participating countries and increasing the operationality of Maritime Operations Centres in order to improve safety and security at sea. In the context of military cooperation with Benin, in 2022, Defense will instruct in the field of non-opposed boarding techniques and the training of the Benin patrol ships.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u5	I now give the floor to Minister Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u6	Mr President, recent developments in the Sahel region are worrying. It is a strategic goal for Belgium to support our partners sustainably and structurally. The unrest in Mali must therefore cause us concern today. The worrying events follow one another, but the needs of the people on the ground have long been known to us. Unfortunately, their situation doesn't change. Belgium has been working with Mali on a governmental level for 30 years. Niger, Burkina Faso and a little further Senegal and Benin are also partner countries of the Belgian cooperative. In Mali too, people want to make something of life, but they lack the basic means to move forward and sometimes even speak of a decent life. Our cooperation is a tangible lever to help break that vicious circle in different areas. We do this by starting at the base: what does a person need to exist? Access to water is literally vital. Through the ongoing bilateral programme, we have invested EUR 14 million in projects on drinking water and wastewater treatment that have ensured that 42,000 people have access to drinking water. We strengthened livestock production by EUR 7.5 million by projects aimed at improving livestock health and renewing local techniques. 25% more milk was sold. That is tangible progress that makes a world of difference locally. With our cooperation, we in Mali also give priority above all to the fight against food insecurity and malnutrition. We do this not at the central level, but at the local level, before and with the people, together with local civil society and local authorities. That is what we are doing with EUR 6.5 million and an integrated approach. Both the improvement of agricultural productivity and the targeted reduction of malnutrition in infants and young mothers who are breast-feeding contribute to this. As a result of such support, horticulturalists saw their turnover increase by seven-fold. I am therefore pleased to be able to emphasise here that in the places where we are active the serious malnutrition has fallen by half as a result of these actions. In addition to Mali, we are also working with our governmental cooperation in other countries in the region. For Niger, I approved a new cooperation programme that makes basic services such as education and healthcare a priority. At the same time, together with our partners, we will also provide income increases and jobs for young people in the agricultural sector. In Burkina Faso we work around local entrepreneurship so that people get a decent income. In addition, we focus on sexual and reproductive rights and health. In Senegal we are working on similar themes. Here too, we want to ensure better access to health services and a decent income for the rural population in the agribusiness sector. We also support the local capacity to produce vaccines, because, as you know, we will not be safe until everyone is safe. In Benin, particular attention is paid to women's rights and the socio-economic integration of young people. We also contribute to decent and sustainable work and better incomes for families. In addition to the governmental cooperation where we are striving for structural improvement, we must unfortunately also recognise that there are certain situations where we can only empty the most urgent needs and where we have to provide emergency aid. That is why we have our humanitarian aid. Unfortunately, humanitarian crises are a reality in the Sahel. That is why we have always focused primarily on direct aid and population strengthening. Our humanitarian assistance is at the forefront and the primary concern for meeting the greatest needs. That is why, since 2017, we have invested more than 20 million euros in basic services, reception, food and basic health care for the humanitarian crisis in Mali. Not only in Mali, but also in the other countries in the region, Belgium provides humanitarian aid. For example, only in 2020 more than EUR 10 million of humanitarian aid went directly to Burkina Faso and EUR 4 million to Niger. Belgium provides this assistance mainly through local humanitarian partners who have the best knowledge of these regions. Organizations such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Red Cross or Belgian NGOs such as Plan and Oxfam deploy resources according to the needs on the ground. These humanitarian needs are not limited to Mali. Since 2017, we have provided a total of 57 million humanitarian aid to the entire Sahel region. All these funds go directly to the reception of displaced persons, food aid, health care and other basic services for people facing dire conditions. Through our bilateral cooperation programme, we work mainly decentralisedly with local authorities that are closer to the population, never through direct budget support. The impact and local implantation of Enabel, the implementing agency, is fundamental in this approach. That is why we are working from the bottom up in order to provide structural support for this policy. That is why we are working with organisations that are structuralally strengthening the local fabric, because in many areas of Mali there is a lack of central authority. Those non-governmental actors are therefore cornerstones of our approach. They work in Mali, together with their local partners, on food security, access to education, health care, decent work and economic integration. For such direct development projects, the latest five-year programme included EUR 17 million. In Burkina Faso, over the past five years, projects in the same sectors as education, health and agriculture of as many as 22 NGOs have been supported for an amount of EUR 40 million. Today it does not look good in the Sahel and certainly not in Mali. In the Sahel region, unrest and uncertainty lurk around the corner. Ministers Wilmès and Dedonder outlined the problems and challenges of the political and military situation in the Sahel region. However, not only political unrest and terror threats make life hopeless, climate change is also unbearable. Temperature will rise sharply in the Sahel in the coming decades. It is expected that there will be less rainfall throughout the region, which will also become more unpredictable and will therefore have serious consequences for agriculture and livestock farming. The humanitarian consequences can be guessed: hunger, even more malnutrition among children and pregnant women, farmers who lose their land and see their livestock decline. It accelerates the spiral of instability. People are forced to flee their environment. We chose decisively to tackle the climate crisis in the Sahel region. For the first time, therefore, we started work on a regional climate programme for the Sahel. Through a climate partnership, we want to offer people a future there by ensuring access to the necessary natural resources, such as fertile land and water. We help people by preparing them for the changing weather conditions. In Mali alone, we do so by restoring 10,000 hectares of land. That is a concrete help for 120,000 people. The hopeless situation of insecurity in the Sahel and the humanitarian needs offer the young people hardly any economic prospects. For decades, the Malian population has been in a humanitarian crisis. At the same time, the effects of climate change are becoming apparent at a worrying rate. As Minister Dedonder said, the security situation is also deteriorating. Today, more than 400,000 people have been displaced in Mali. More than 1.2 million people are in a situation of acute food shortage. This figure is expected to rise to 2 million in the course of this year. This is more than 10% of the total population. For the whole Sahel region, the figures are even more alarming: for example, there are more than 3.5 million internal refugees. According to the EU, needs are now higher than in previous crises. The disastrous situation provokes massive dissatisfaction and challenges the confidence that people and our partners place in us. So it is a breeding ground for further instability. This is how the spiral of salvation continues: no future, no stability. What cooperation does in such desolate places? She's often the very last lifeboat for humans. Dear Members of Parliament, the needs are clearly high, but it takes two to tango. If we are to strengthen a country structurally with our bilateral cooperation, we must be able to count on a government that is our partner in combating poverty. Following the first coup d'état that took place in August 2020, it was decided not to conclude a full bilateral programme. We had the intention to work out a short bridging program. That programme was intended to bridge the transition period to a democratic system. However, following the second coup d'état in May 2021, there has been uncertainty over the transition and transition to a democratic regime in recent months. That is why the development of the transition programme has been put on hold for the time being until we have a credible partner again. To make those decisions, we constantly align with other like-minded donors, including, of course, the EU and countries that are directly active there, such as France, Germany and Luxembourg. I heard that Denmark has also recently decided to put on hold a number of ongoing government programmes and postpone preparations for a new bilateral programme. However, Denmark remains active in humanitarian aid. Support for civil society organisations is also continuing. Our government cooperation is very similar to that of Germany and Luxembourg. In Mali, we are in almost continuous consultation with them and other donors to maximize our position. So we look at how we can learn lessons from what others are doing and ensure that cooperation with our partners remains coherent. Especially, so we keep all the options open how we can make the difference for the Malians together. Unfortunately, we are faced with similar events in the region. A coup d'état also took place in Burkina Faso on 24 January. However, the reaction of the international community and the region was more moderate here, as the coupplegers seem to enjoy broad support from the population. The intentions regarding a transition to the democratic order of the coupants are not yet clear, so for the time being, in addition to a condemnation of the coup, most of the countries were waiting for a response. It should be noted that there was a military coup in Guinea Conakry five months ago. The coups installed a transitional parliament on 5 February. For both countries, we planned to start drawing up a new programme this spring. However, in view of the situation, we decided to pause the start-up and, as with Mali, to agree with the EU and the European Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has chosen bilateral cooperation in fragile countries. It's a deliberate choice. It is in these countries that the poorest people on the planet are found. That is where we can make the most differences. In fact, the global problems in the Sahel are cumulative: poverty, climate change, instability and the emergence of refugees and displaced persons. The challenges in the Sahel are numerous and so interrelated that it is difficult to isolate them and examine them from one angle. That is why we are working with Belgian Defence and Diplomacy as part of a comprehensive approach. The Sahel is also the first region for which Belgian foreign policy actors have developed a concrete strategy and for which interdepartmental consultation takes place on a regular basis. Our goal is to maximize results through an integrated approach to security, development and political cooperation. Indeed, everything is linked, and the complexity of the Sahel lends itself particularly well to our 3D approach: Defence, Development and Diplomacy. The approach also translates into actions. An additional focus on fragility has recently been added to the programme of cooperation with Burkina Faso, and in Niger we aim for concrete cooperation with our Defence colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that everything is linked to each other. Inevitably, political and military developments have an impact on our work. It is therefore important to monitor these developments very closely together with my fellow Members. Because these countries are so fragile, it is all the more important in the Sahel that we are prepared for crises and are able to move quickly. The people of these countries must not be the toy of political unrest. We cannot just abandon these people by stopping everything in an instant. That is why we must weigh every choice and make informed decisions. The consideration I make in such crises is whether the context still allows us to achieve development results for the benefit of the population. We know that the situation in the Sahel is extremely volatile, but there is also a constant situation, because people continue to suffer, families are starving, the soil is dying and future prospects are drying out. I see it as my task, together with all our partners, to strengthen the people there and to work together through international solidarity for a better region and a better future, a better life for those people. When I visited Burkina Faso last year, I met a pregnant woman who plowed her country at 44 degrees. I want to honor her strength in the work we all do together. Just those people who, even in the most difficult circumstances, have to and want to move forward, I want to strengthen with all partners. I assure you that my commitment to the people of the Sahel is strong and will remain strong. That is why we are going for the best possible result, in the most difficult circumstances, for the greatest number of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u7	I would like to thank the three ministers for their comments. Several Members of Parliament have put forward questions. Those questions are listed according to the date of entry. Together with my colleague in the chair, I propose that the questioners be given the floor first. Afterwards, the political groups will be given the floor. [[Applause from the left]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u8	Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, you have raised a number of points on which I would like to go further. It is an important debate and I would like to stress a few points. I'm starting Operation Takuba in Mali. It won't surprise you that I'm going to start because I've been talking about that for months. I now read in Le Monde that the Prime Minister is expected tomorrow at the Elysée and that there is a good chance that President Macron will close both Operation Barkhane and Operation Takuba and see if there can be a shift of troops to MINUSMA and possibly EUTM Mali. It is clear, especially after the return of the French ambassador, that the Elysée had to switch over and that it could not go on like this. This is not a business as usual, it is not. A partner who has been militaryly present for years at the request of the Malian government and has had a lot of military ill-offerings - there have been a lot of French deaths - treating that way, you just don't do that. In this sense, we can only support this decision. I'm glad this is finally being followed. It is happening now, of course, in a context in which almost nothing else could be done, and we did not go there alone, of course, that would be completely absurd. So President Macron has facilitated it for a piece for this government. For months there was a discussion on whether or not we should do so. There was a debate on the EUR 12 million entered as an operational budget for Takuba in Mali. There was a debate for hours. In itself, I am on the right side of history. It's nice to stand there. It's important that we stay out of that kleptocracy, I can't name it any other way. It is a military junta of kleptocrates, who are not concerned at all with the population but above all with personal enrichment. It's a very tribal society. We must not have the ambition to resolve it in the Sahel. Like Afghanistan, it is a complete wasp nest, with its own history of many years of misery. The idea that we can export the concepts of democracy and human rights there, oh my god.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u9	Since Afghanistan, we have all been given a proper reality check and we have been put in place. So we must no longer hope for our ambition to export the democratic model. The Arab Spring is such a complete failure. Even Tunisia has become a dictatorship since June 2021. So there is no democracy anymore. The last stronghold, Tunisia, has now fallen. The whole story of exporting human rights and democracy to the rest of the world just doesn't work that way, which doesn't mean that the concept itself isn't very beautiful. If it were that simple, we'd all do it. Unfortunately, however, it does not work that way. In itself, therefore, it is a good decision by the government not to participate in Takuba. It is not quite clear to me what you mean if you say you will see what we will do with EUTM and what we will possibly do with the UN Mission MINUSMA. Our troops would then possibly go there. There have been many preparations and especially Walloon units would go there. Madam Minister, will they still be sent out, but under another flag? That did not become clear to me in your reply. Perhaps you could explain that for a moment. Secondly, what I have not heard in the great Sahel story is a Sahel strategy. I haven't heard any strategy. I have heard a lot of things, because there have been trampled paths and generalities, stories and anecdotes. However, I have not heard any Sahel strategy. I also do not believe that there is a real Sahel strategy. Does the West, apart from the Belgian Government, have a Sahel strategy? I doubt that. It's very difficult. Madam Foreign Minister, the fundamental debate on this must be conducted at national level, but also at European level. That must also be done within NATO. It is important that, over the next few months, we decide on this Sahel strategy. It is not bad in itself to admit that we do not really have it, because we do not really know it at the moment either. After all, everything evolves very quickly. Our Sahel strategy was, among other things, to try to develop a strategy through our 3D-LO. With diplomacy, defence and development cooperation, we would try to achieve something beautiful. What we have done through Defence is to strengthen their defence through training and training, so that they have a stronger and better trained army that knows more unity of command, thereby strengthening democracy. What we see in practice is that we have indeed succeeded in strengthening the army. But that then knocked over the democratic regime and installed a military junta. I am now very cynical, the design of training and investment to strengthen the armies in the Sahel has succeeded. That was always based on the idea that this would lead to more democracy, but in the end our way of working has ensured that three regimes have already fallen and military juntas have been installed, and the fear that this will happen now in Niger and colonels and generals are coming to power is sky high. In short, the Sahel Strategy 3 DLO has failed. Third, we're not alone. I don't fish anyone; all the Western world is struggling with this. I had a long talk about this with my sister last weekend, who works at the World Bank. Next week she goes to the Sahel, where there are a lot of investments. Because she is Belgian, she has to go there physically. She's such a globetrotter, she's lived and worked all over the world. For the first time, she's been given a safety course. Everyone in the World Bank who goes there gets a course what one should do when one is taken hostage; and how to keep oneself as safe as possible. That was for my sister, who is not very familiar with safety circles..................................................................................................................................................................................................... For the first time after dozens of foreign missions, she is told that it is really dangerous there and that she needs to prepare for the worst. In itself, that says enough. It shows that not only the Belgian Government, but even an institution like the World Bank, is struggling with the question of what to do with the Sahel region, and that the problem is much wider. Do we still need to support military operations in the Sahel? We must continue to support the operation in Niger. I'm behind that. That operation is worth it, as long as there is a democracy and there is no military coup. Hopefully that won't happen. On the other hand, after Afghanistan, we have to think about our foreign operations. It's a very difficult discussion. Think of Ukraine. If one provokes the Russians too much, one pushes them into the arms of China. If we act too hard in the Sahel, we will push those countries into the arms of Russia and China. Do we want only Russia and China to be present in Africa in the end and to be in charge there? I hope that is not the agenda. Then what do we want? Russia and China have no scruples about the geopolitical situation on the African continent. Russia sends Wagner, private militias of the KGB-oligarchen, to Africa. China just buys up everything and even sends Chinese to mine on the spot. Africans are no longer needed for that. We are constantly struggling with ourselves, because we are trying to do foreign policy at a morally more high level. That is the dilemma of the West in many geopolitical theatres and throughout the geostrategic story of Asia and Africa. I don't have a ready answer for that right away. I, like you, have undoubtedly looked into the subject and even devoted part of my book to it, without giving a satisfactory answer. I do know, however, that we must continue to work for Africa. If we look at demographic and economic development, we must not close the carotid artery for Europe. But how do we do it best? Perhaps we should move aside our morally elevated principles for a moment. But how is this best done and explained to Parliament? We are, of course, looking at Africa from our point of view, but do we still find support in the government? Everyone is undoubtedly struggling with these fundamental questions. However, we must have the courage to respond to this in the context of a strategy for the Sahel that is much needed for the West. It is absolutely necessary for us to be present in Africa, especially in the theatre of Niger. Don't forget North Africa, by the way. I never understood that we were active for years with so many forces in Afghanistan, but could not find any diplomatic solution for Libya. After all, Libya is Europe's immediate backyard and the gateway to our continent for, among other things, illegal migration, human trafficking, weapons and drugs. We have paid far too little attention to this in recent years, and we continue to invest massively in countries far beyond Europe. I realise that the problem is that Europe is not on the same page in this respect, but I would suggest that we try to fix the problem with Libya. That seems much, much more important to me. One final point is about our operations. We're at a historically low operating level. Never before have there been fewer soldiers abroad. But what do we do? Since Afghanistan, we don't know. Everyone is struggling with it: many European countries have never had so few soldiers abroad. I note that 25 special forces are being sent to the Democratic Republic of Congo. That's news. Do we have to open the Great Lakes as a theatre again? The N-VA was always very reluctant in this respect, unlike Mr Flahaut and others in Parliament, who were always very supportive of it and who regretted that the Swedish Government was withdrawing part of the troops. I don't know. I think that Africa will still be important, but we can talk about this later. However, I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in the coming days, apart from developments in Ukraine, we will not be able to pay so little attention to collective defence. I believe that the force intended for Mali should be deployed at the eastern border. We also need to keep enough troops in operations. We may be attracting 10,000 new soldiers, but those soldiers are sitting in the barracks looking at the ceiling. They want action. They want surgery. They want to be busy. Of course, one cannot invent operations. It's got to be useful, too. That is why it is important that additional efforts are made on operations and on strengthening our commitment to the eastern border. That is also a good signal to NATO, the European Union and Moscow. That's what's needed. That's why I'd like a shift from operations to the eastern border.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u10	Indeed, if Mr. Franken was able to ask his question for ten minutes, I can take five to ask three. I will not be so long because the three ministers, whom I thank, have answered most of my preliminary questions. I'm just gonna settle for one point or the other. You don't address the role of France. Most likely, she seems to want to announce her withdrawal from Mali. It's a big domino that might drag us de facto with him. France is likely to announce the end of Operation Barkhane and the Takuba Task Force by its mere withdrawal, since it constitutes the majority of these operations. But you have certainly seen – for example last Monday – the French authorities with the other member countries involved in Mali. So, do you confirm the French government's willingness to withdraw definitively from Mali in the next few days? If so, what are France's reasons for this withdrawal? You mentioned that discussions were under way with your counterparts regarding our participation in the Takuba Task Force. I assume that you are excluding Belgium unilaterally from the Task Force and that you are also excluding us from it alone. You mentioned that the European Training Mission (EUTM) and United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) missions would be maintained. What impact will a hypothetical withdrawal from Mali have on these missions? Some observers fear that, after Burkina Faso and Mali, the wave of coups d'état in the Sahel will also spread in Niger. This is all the more feared as their fears materialize. What is the current situation in the country? Finally, if we really move towards a withdrawal, how will the withdrawal of Europeans from Mali affect the fight against terrorism in the Sahel? What do you think is the risk that terrorism will return to Europe? And how, in the event of a widespread withdrawal, does Europe intend to ensure that the fight against jihadist terrorism in the Sahel continues?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the violence and unrest in the Sahel has a long history. We have been seeing for some time that jihadist groups, such as IS and Al-Qaeda, have established themselves and are engaged in war with the government army and ethnic groups. We also see that France has been trying since 2013 to curb this unrest and stabilise the region, but with very little success. We have all been able to follow the political debate. France wants to reduce its forces and Europeanize the Barkhane operation, through Operation Takuba. That is not the only reason; there is also a political reason in France, namely President Macron's re-election. At the same time, we see that the situation has evolved very quickly, with two coups in one year, the postponement of elections until 2025, the presence of the Wagner Group in the country. The Danish troops and the French ambassador were expelled from the country. The only correct conclusion is that our Belgian troops no longer have any business in Mali. However, we must also be honest. Question no longer arises today. Several participants in Takuba - Norway, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands - have already made their decision. It's just waiting for France to officially pull the plug on the operation. I learned this morning through Reuters that France would have asked the other participants of Operation Takuba to regroup troops in other countries in the Sahel. Togo, Benin, Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana, among others, were mentioned. At the same time, at the eastern border of the European Union, we have a conflict that calls for our attention. For my group, it is important to open up this debate a little more widely and, above all, to open up the debate on the European presence in the Sahel and to look at the overall picture. We believe that it is necessary and urgent time to finally make up the bill for the European presence in the Sahel. What lessons do we want to draw from this? If we are to regroup to other countries in the Sahel, the question that seems to lie ahead, what are the objectives that we as a country want to achieve? So it's just a military mission? Or are we going to do nation building there, with democracy and human rights? Mr Francken just said that perhaps we should abandon our morally elevated principles in foreign policy. I can no longer ask what he meant, but that seems to me to be very far-reaching. What interests in the region do Foreign Affairs see for Belgium? What are the interests of other European Member States? What instruments are needed to achieve our objective? These are all questions we need to ask ourselves, and we are not the only ones to do so. We see that they are also having that debate in Germany. What's our strategy? We believe that we have interests there, as you yourself said. I'm talking about migration. We also benefit from the fact that international terrorist organisations will not be able to find new safe ports, which would allow them to increase their activities again. There is indeed the geopolitical side of the story. We have seen for a number of years that great powers such as China and Russia are actively focusing on Africa. I think the Wagner Group's presence is a wake-up call for the West. If we leave the country and the Sahel completely to their fate, we will drive them right into Putin's arms. It is good for us to have a parliamentary debate on this and get the latest information, but because of the ever-changing situation we should continue to have this debate. After all, we cannot let go of the Sahel at all. For us, it is important that if the question of participation arises again in the future, this debate should come to Parliament again, so that it is also up to us to define the interests and conditions properly. What does a possible operation consist of? Is there a clear comprehensive approach? What's the target? How many troops do we send for such activities? What is the exit strategy and what is the basis for that? So what we are asking for is a military mission review framework, but I think you know that, Madam Secretary. That is why we have tabled a legislative proposal for this. After some reflections, I now have a number of questions for the three ministers, first and foremost for the Minister of Defence. Germany's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Baerbock, proposed a short-term review of the situation in the Sahel. Is this evaluation being carried out at European level? Do you have any contacts with the European External Action Service and the European Commission? That last question is also for the Foreign Minister. I understand that this is being discussed and that options are being examined. Secondly, the mission in Mali is sometimes called the French Afghanistan. Do you agree with that comparison? What are your insights? You don't think that mission was too committed to a comprehensive approach? Thirdly, Reuters reported this morning that France would like to convince the European partners to deploy the units of the Takuba operation in Benin, Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana or Togo. How do you feel about that? Will Belgium answer that question? You leave an opening for a possible reinforcement of our troops in Niger. How do you look at that? Can you outline the decision-making process that would lead to a possible reorientation of the Belgian troops? In Operation Takuba, the decision-making process was somewhat unclear, even to the extent that the press simply reported that Belgium would participate, hence my question. What is the legal mandate for a possible regrouping of troops? To what extent have the countries of the Takuba coalition already expressed their views at the meetings that have taken place in recent days for continued support and participation in the military effort in the Sahel, since Takuba was not such a success? What is the impact of the Ukraine crisis on the possible deployment of troops in the Sahel? Is it true that the force unit that could possibly be deployed in Mali is the same as the one that would be deployed in NATO should Article 5 be activated? What will happen to the UN mission and the security of the UN soldiers, as the presence in Mali decreases? I also have a number of questions for the Foreign Minister. I said it was important to take stock of the European presence in Mali and the Sahel before we make decisions on other matters. How's the State Department looking at that? Are you in contact with the European institutions about this? What message will Belgium send at the summit between the European and African Union which will take place shortly and where the situation in the Sahel is on the agenda? In Mali and by extension the Sahel, we notice growing anti-French and anti-European sentiments. This raises questions about the safety of our fellow countrymen who are still in Mali. What steps does the Foreign Office take in this regard? Once again, we are having a discussion here, and it has been said a few times about the weakness of the European Union in the field of defence and security. There may be a need to consider a European strategy for military missions and their relationship with NATO. How do you look at that? Finally, I have three brief questions for the Minister for Development Cooperation. If the French withdraw from Mali, the situation in Mali will become even more complex. You have just explained that the ongoing cooperation is going even further. What can you say about the security of the staff of the development organisations still on the ground, especially in view of the growing anti-European sentiments? What is the impact of any withdrawal of Takuba and any reorientation of troops on the thematic climate portfolio in the Sahel that you would roll out? ECOWAS imposed sanctions against Mali last month, but we all know that the Sahel is facing various crises. What do you think is the expected impact of sanctions on the humanitarian situation in that country, which is already so dramatic? Mr President, that was a lot of questions, but it is an important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u12	Mrs Wilmès speaks of a permanent deterioration in the Sahel region, mainly in Mali. Of course, that's nothing new under the sun. The consequences of this deteriorating situation, particularly for the European countries there, can be felt for our European partners who have military or non-military commitment or are active in another area. It is right to call for a coherent and effective commitment. The Flemish Interest Group is pleased that after months of delay and unclear communication about the recently planned Takuba mission or participation in it, common sense has triumphed. The stakes are not stopped at the moment. The Flemish interest was not very fond of that operation from the beginning. The recent developments in the region have, of course, strengthened our conviction in this respect. The military junta in power in Bamako ensures that the Malian government has a shaky legitimacy. Relations between Mali and its neighbouring countries have also deteriorated. Niger also does not allow Takuba on its territory. The relationship between the French and the Malian government has also been sourded. Anti-French and anti-Western sentiments have increased in Mali. At present, this means that France is considering a withdrawal at a rapid rate or is in the process of doing so. Also the jihadist activities on the ground seem unstabilized, despite all the good intentions and efforts in this respect. Meanwhile, the Malinesen are also working with the Russian Wagner group to ensure security. This could make our cooperation with the Malian government even more difficult. A number of European partners, such as the Danes and Sweden, have already withdrawn from the operation. They also put a number of projects on hold. The French have been building up their presence in the region for a long time, bearing in mind the contributions of European allies. On the other hand, we are now seeing the complex situation at our eastern border, the eastern border of NATO. That would make participation in Takuba even more uncertain. In this respect, we are of course pleased to hear that this is not being stopped at the moment. Minister Dedonder has said that our operational commitment must be flexible. That's right. However, I would like to point out that our group is rather reluctant about this reorientation towards other Sahel countries, because of the arguments put forward. When it comes to reorientation, we would like to see it in our direct backyard, particularly around the Mediterranean Sea and at our eastern border, in order to protect our security. It has already been said: there appears to be no Sahel strategy, either in Belgium or at EU level. We can now make that clear, with all that is happening in the field of withdrawal. It is perhaps a good thing that an evaluation is being carried out there. I wonder what attitude Foreign Affairs and Defence will take on this issue. What will be our concrete communication in this area? What position will our government take when the debate is held at European level? I'd like to hear that. We have also seen that the so-called nation building does not work any more than in Afghanistan. We look at things far too much through a European, a Western glasses. Minister Kitir emphasized it once again: democracy should be introduced into the Sahel region. Literally, she said, "The transition to a democratic system." I want to, but we've seen for years that this doesn't work on the premises. I would therefore like to stress once again the need for a proper evaluation of our commitment in the Sahel, from which we must learn the necessary lessons. Another thing that should be at the forefront of all future operational deployments abroad is the absolute historical low point in terms of the number of military personnel in foreign operations. We need to think carefully about what we want when we start operating. What are these well-defined criteria? What are the objectives that we want to achieve in practice abroad? What exit strategy do we put first? When has our objective been achieved? I think it is a debate that must finally be held so that we can no longer find ourselves in such an unclear situation about our commitment in the Sahel. I therefore have a number of questions concerning the reorientation. A number of questions have been overtaken by current events. Can you point out that reorientation again? Has there been a question for Belgium to extend this reorientation in the Sahel region? If so, what is our view on this? Are there any other tasks currently expected of our Belgian Defence and of our diplomacy? If so, which one? Now that the decision on Tabuka has been taken, I would like to know what impact the deteriorating security situation in the region can have on our military who are still operating there through the EUTM, EUCAP and the MINUSMA mission? I would like to see your views on this and the strategy in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u13	Mr. Chairman, I thank the three members of the government who are here today. This is an extremely important debate in view of the rapid development of the situation. We have been asking for this debate for a long time. I would point out that if we did not put a question, it was because I thought it would be organised in the context of an exchange of views and not a topical debate. Do not see it as a disinterest, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u14	Above all, we must remember the origin of the destabilization of northern Mali, which comes in fact from the intervention in Libya. By the way, I recall that Libya is not our garden but our neighbour, and that is the case for all countries bordering our borders. It's both fairer and less arrogant to say things like that. It's important. This collapse of Libya has allowed for the arming of terrorist groups – jihadists and non-jihadists – and the problem has finally been displaced. In our operations abroad, we often tend to move the problem, as we can see more to the south, in the Gulf of Guinea region. It is therefore important that we take stock of our interventions. I have often been told that what has led to what turns out to be a failure of the French and European intervention in Mali is to have adopted an increasingly martial approach to the issue, based mainly on military victories rather than political gains. It is said that we are going to fight terrorism – it is necessary – but, in fact, it does not mean anything. Terrorism is a political enemy that also demands political answers, otherwise it is doomed to failure. Approaches to diplomacy and development, under the impetus of France – which remains the main external player in the region – have been too weakened in the last ten years. For example, I am told that police officers arrest people randomly and hold them hostage until a ransom is paid. It is certain that this situation is pushing Malians into the arms of armed groups. It is also known that political instability in this region, which is also linked to global warming and desertification, creates the conditions for the emergence of these terrorist groups. But we know that these governments are destitute in the face of this immense global challenge. This pushes thousands of people on the roads of exile and which unfortunately end up too often at the bottom of the Mediterranean. We must remember that global warming, as is the case with security, social and environmental problems, is at the root of this situation. It is therefore necessary that the Malian political elite treat the rest of the country more inclusively than it currently does and that the State does not return without a profound reform of its functioning. To that end, as you have repeatedly pointed out this afternoon, we must continue to maintain state support. I come to another element which, in my view, was a mistake. I'm talking about the concept of double standard. I do not see what Western credibility can be when, on the one hand, we demand a rapid democratic transition in Mali and the departure of the junta, and, on the other hand, France softens the son of President Idriss Déby immediately after his death, in violation of the Constitution. I wonder how the people of the Sahel can interpret this approach. It is not surprising to see this rise in anti-French and anti-Western sentiment, in view of the inconsistency of Western diplomacy. As the people do not see the results they have been promised as a result of the initiatives that have been taken, they get tired. This is how a terrible resentment was born. It is striking that in 2013, the popular masses had come to applaud and thank François Hollande and that today, people block the convoys of operations not only in Mali, but also in other neighbouring countries. It must be noted that the Western presence in the region becomes more counterproductive than effective. Of course, we have to ask ourselves about this. As has already been said, in the last few weeks the Wagner Group has been present on the territory. This is one of the reasons why some are hesitant today to leave Mali and abandon the ground to the Russians. When you know the violent, bloody record of this group, you can obviously ask yourself questions. I would also like to ask you a question about this: in your opinion, if we leave Mali, would the Russians do better than we do and would they be able to stabilize the region politically, safely and economically? I don't think so. I don't even think that's why they're here. So they may be in the same situation as we are in a few years' time. Regarding the Takuba Task Force, you tell us that the conditions for the deployment of CATSG are not met. In this regard, I would like to congratulate the government, which has been thinking from the outset about strict conditions. The conclusion is that today, as the conditions are not met, there is no deployment. The current issues concern Takuba. Will it be maintained? In this debate, what position will Belgium adopt tomorrow at the Elysée? Yesterday, Reuters announced that it had seen a document that was distributed to the countries involved in Takuba in Mali. According to the agency, this document, which still needs to be approved, mentions the fact that France and its Takuba partners have agreed to a coordinated withdrawal of their troops in Mali. Indeed, in view of the development of the situation, I do not see very well how we could do otherwise today. Although the Malian junta has never officially said that we are no longer welcome, it has put so many sticks in our wheels that it seems obvious that its intentions are not to make life easier. If the Malian government is no longer in agreement, even if it has not yet announced it, then we move on to another dimension, which is that of a military occupation. Of course, this is not desirable. And nobody wants it here, I'm sure. So I come back to my question. Share this concern. Should Takuba be maintained? Or would it be conceivable that Belgium would withdraw unilaterally if tomorrow's debate were not to bear fruit, in that sense anyway? The question now is what we are going to do after the withdrawal that seems to be coming. I would like to hear from you on this subject. There is a clear risk for the region, and especially for the region of the three borders, but beyond that, of seeing a resurgence of armed groups, jihadists or not. What strategy will the European Union adopt? What will be Belgium's position? In fact, I imagine that Belgium has adapted its Sahelian strategy. But in what sense? For the people, there is also another risk that we must not neglect: sanctions. The NGOs I contacted all told me that they were afraid of sanctions. They are afraid that the target will be missed and that people will be affected, which are already affected by the second set of sanctions adopted by ECOWAS. The development efforts that have been made would be further undermined. Those populations could therefore be pushed back into the arms of armed groups. So what is your position on this? How will we ensure that people are not subject to sanctions? I come to one last point. Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian announced yesterday that France would continue to intervene but "the door next door". I think it's his words. Does Belgium also envisage redeployment? Where? In which region? I have heard of Côte d'Ivoire, Niger and other countries, but they are countries where anti-Western sentiment is also growing. Is it not possible to change powers that are still more or less stable? We know Niger isn't really. On the other hand, will the emphasis be on strengthening 2D, diplomacy and development? In what way? What about MINUSMA? While there may be a widespread withdrawal of Western forces into Malian territory, the Secretary-General of the United Nations is calling for a larger intervention by MINUSMA. Could we hear this call and transfer our action to MINUSMA rather than to Takuba? I have heard with pleasure that you want to maintain the dialogue with the Malian government. Indeed, the most important thing is diplomacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u15	First of all, I would like to thank the three ministers for their explanation. The 3D approach of our country is in the forefront of our parliament, equal, and so it should be. Thank you for explaining the Belgian position, first of all in relation to Takuba. That is why everyone was looking forward to this debate. We have also long been looking forward to the positioning of our country in this matter. Firstly, Mali and, by extension, the Sahel is strategically extremely important for Belgium and for Europe. It is good that this is the point of view of this debate. After all, we benefit from stability in that region from many points of view: security, climate, migration, development cooperation and so on. In 2018 I went to work with the Committee for Defence in Mali. We visited our Belgian military at MINUSMA, but also in the EUTM, the European training mission. If I am not mistaken, that was even at the time when Belgium had just taken over the leadership. Our country has been in charge of a very important European mission in Mali for a year, which also underlines the importance that our country has always attached to the region. In any case, we have learned there that the explanations for instability are very diverse and that a purely military approach makes no sense at all. We know that now, but we knew that back then. Military commitment can be an absolute part of the solution, but only if there is a positive answer to the question whether our military commitment can make a difference in the political context we know. If that is the case, it is absolutely necessary to consider using military forces somewhere in a broader political framework. However, here the answer is no, and that answer has been no for a very long time, ladies and gentlemen. I am very pleased with your explanation and with the position we are taking now. Of course there have been developments in recent weeks. Denmark was kindly asked by the junta to withdraw its troops. There was a clear indication of the French ambassador, the position of France has changed and so on. However, I do not think that all this should be the reason for our position. To be honest, our group had already had a lot of questions and doubts about possible participation. I think it took us quite a long time to reach a position. I believe that we should be able to determine a position much more quickly. The French authorities have asked our country to participate at some point, but we cannot allow our position to depend on that. In order to avoid any ambiguity, France is an important ally of our country. I think, however, that we should carry out an analysis ourselves, a clear Belgian approach to the question of whether or not we should act militarily. In my opinion, our country should set the bar high. If the political situation is not favourable to an improvement, I really do not see why we should use military forces. After all, there is always a risk, first and foremost for the Belgian military, because we know that their lives are at stake. So we must not use them lightly. We have always expressed similar criticism of the operation in Afghanistan. The political situation in Mali has not been good for years. At the moment, there is a junta government in power that has moved the elections to 2025, but that junta government has no democratic legitimacy and it did not have it in the past. The government discriminates against certain sections of the population. In addition to a lack of legitimacy, this government is also characterised by corruption. What kind of government in Mali do we therefore support if we send Belgian troops there? Unfortunately, in the current context, a politically stable solution is not possible for that country. So there is absolutely no point in sending troops, not now, but not six months ago either. If there is little hope or perspective, I think the answer to that difficult question is quite simple. Moreover, the situation is getting worse at the moment. After all, the Malian government is now working with Russian mercenaries who are uncontrollable to a certain point. We must not think about the situation in which we find ourselves when Belgian troops are to support Malian government, side by side with Russian mercenaries. I would ask you to consider a Belgian approach in which we send Belgian troops as a lever to enforce a more favourable political situation. I believe that we can only send troops if we attach firm conditions to this, in particular as regards the promotion of democracy, the fight against corruption and the involvement of all sections of the population in a country, so that the government in question obtains democratic legitimacy. We can do that. If the government asks for military assistance, we have the right to attach conditions to it. I really want to ask you to think about that approach. Finally, I believe that not participating in Takuba is not the same as not showing involvement in the Sahel or Mali. I have already referred to the European training missions and the UN Mission MINUSMA. I am pleased to hear that Minister Kitir points out the importance of international cooperation and Minister Wilmès points out the importance of diplomacy and ongoing dialogue. Mr Francken asked whether we actually have a strategy in the Sahel. I don't think we really know that. I also think there is no shame in admitting that at the moment. Nevertheless, I think it is a good thing that we stick to that 3D approach with our country. That is absolutely positive. I also think that the countries concerned in the region really benefit from this approach and from an outstretched hand from a European country such as Belgium. We can offer the Sahel region a partnership that other countries cannot offer, based on 3D, a long-term commitment based on many consultations between Europe and Mali or Niger, a partnership based on respect, a partnership that is ready to support democratic regimes, including military ones, on a number of conditions. I believe that a country like Russia is not prepared to enter into such partnerships, nor a country like China. However, the countries concerned may be interested in such a partnership if they take a good approach and come up with a broad package. I want to be optimistic about the fact that we still have a unique selling proposition in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u16	Mr President, if I may, in order to respect the same logic as you have applied to Ecolo-Groen, I propose that Mr. Ben Achour asks his question and let me intervene afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u17	If you wish, Mr Flahaut, there is no problem, but he referred to his written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u18	Mr. President, I didn't listen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u19	I do!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u20	That's why you're the president! In any case, I thank the three ministers for being physically present in this Chamber. That should be stressed, it is a sign of respect for Parliament. Really a return to normality, where we will all be present in the rooms to be able to discuss. The other element, the general context, is known and worrying. We are not going to talk about Ukraine here, but mainly about Africa. On the eve of the summit of the European Union and the African Union, it is important because the situation is changing. Someone said earlier that the decisions taken on Libya - that I am not told what I did not say, I am not defending Gaddafi or any dictator - have opened the door to everything that is happening today a little lower on the African continent. As far as the countries mentioned in the G5 Sahel are concerned, there is a problem. Indeed, virtually every country has, month after month, military power at the turn of putschs, even when the presidents are still in constitutionality, as is the case in Burkina Faso. Looking at this map of Africa, we see that, from west to east, there is a jihadist front that is now established between Sudan and the West. And below, facing this front, which was actually announced for some time, military powers settle, with the characteristic that they settle each time with the accession of the populations. This is a cause for concern, because it is a demonstration that people are beginning to lose confidence in politics but rather in the army - and that is the problem - and that is the hope that the army or armies will be able to provide better security and restore security, which is not guaranteed at all. I do believe that what has been done in military operations has been done not with the armies but only with the armies, by not giving the armies the material and human resources to carry out coherent policies to restore security. That's what's being criticized, that's what we hear. Today, the putschists are here and we must examine the situation and maintain, whether we like it or not, a dialogue. Otherwise we won't get out. Secondly, I think we have probably neglected the fact of being in asymmetrical situations. We answered in a classic way. France often responds in a classic way when it is somewhere. We did the same in Afghanistan. Military operations have been conducted and 3D (Diplomatia, Development and Defence) has not been sufficiently developed. It is therefore necessary, with the situation as it is today, to reflect on the future. There is probably a need to define a new strategy and I believe that the 3D strategy as developed in Niger is the only one possible. We can even add a fourth D, that of parliamentary diplomacy. There, we will be able to work with the populations concerned and for the populations concerned. But the problem that arises, and I do not know if you have the same fears as I do, is this phenomenon that is developing in this Sahel band and that is likely to gain a little lower, especially in the Central African Republic. There are concerns today about insecurity, particularly between Rwanda, the Congo, Uganda, the Congo and Brazzaville, and this situation is not reassuring. Besides, are you really surprised to see the Wagner group on the spot? This is simply an illustration of the privatization of the war and this privatization has existed everywhere. It's Wagner in Africa, but it was Blackwater, paramilitary groups in Afghanistan and Iraq. That is the problem: the privatization of the war, which probably leads us to have to develop a strategy. But is it still possible to have a concerted European strategy in relation to Africa? These are very broad questions. Europe today is Eastern Europe, Southern Europe, Northern Europe with each other's couplet. Perhaps we are able more than others, because we are small, less dangerous, because we have an experience, because we have set an example in Niger with 3D, to initiate partnership? I insist on the term partnership and not collaboration or neo-colonialism or paternalism, because all this has some relents that make us fail wherever we are. Here are some thoughts I wanted to share. In any case, we will have the opportunity to discuss it extensively, because we must recall the procedures. If we were to decide to participate in operations, here or elsewhere, a parliamentary debate will always be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u21	Mr Creyelman, do you wish to speak? Can I ask you, as the second speaker for your group, to keep it as short as possible so that the three ministers still have a chance to respond in detail?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u22	Mr President, I would just like to refer to the speech by Mr Ponthier, who has done so with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u23	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as the Ministers for Defence and Cooperation, for this important exchange of views. On behalf of my group, I would like to point out that our commitments in the Sahel region – particularly in Mali – are indeed structural, because they are long-term challenges to be met. I agree with Mrs Kitir, who is right to point out that we cannot let the population down because of political hazards, were they extremely severe as this double coup d'état. Mali is facing poverty, terrorism and climate change. To quote a few simple figures, internal displacement has quadrupled in two years – 400,000 people at the end of 2021 – with 154,000 refugees having had to leave the country, and then 1.3 million people have urgent and immediate food needs – that's not nothing. That is why our commitments on the ground must continue, but probably in an appropriate form, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has indicated. How? That is, of course, the whole question. There are many obstacles. I am thinking first of the presence of the Wagner militias. Moreover, I regret the fact that Minister Diop was able to challenge this reality clearly. Moreover, the postponement of the elections by five years contravenes the support for a democratic regime. And then, people seem to want change. In our view, the answer must be threefold. First, it must be security rather than military in order to combat jihadism, on the one hand, and banditry, on the other. I am also thinking of securing borders or the need to control irregular migration. A political response is also needed to avoid the short term. Finally, for people, development cooperation must take shape. The international agenda has been busy for the past few days. The summit between the European Union and the African Union on 17 and 18 February could be an opportunity to discuss with regional actors. I am thinking in particular of Algeria. I know that cooperation with the latter is not always simple, but it may have keys to perception of Malian reality. Some colleagues are talking about a lack of strategy. This judgment seems somewhat harsh to me. I would rather say that the elasticity of our action in the region is precisely what has enabled us and still allows us to move forces from one Sahel country to another. It is therefore necessary to keep the essential idea of adaptation in mind, including with regard to sanctions, and always bearing in mind that these sanctions must first and foremost affect the military junta and its environment. It is also necessary to try, as far as possible, to preserve the populations to the maximum extent possible. In my view, there can be no question of outright withdrawal, but of adapting to a reality of difficult and changing terrain. Much has been said about the fact that France is leaving the Takuba mission, but this should not make us forget our participation in MINUSMA and in European missions such as the EUTM. It is true that Denmark was forced to leave Takuba. Norway and Sweden have done the same. France will decide tomorrow morning. But there are other partners in this mission – Italy, Estonia, Czech Republic, Portugal, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia. What will we do? I hear the Minister of Defence tell us that the conditions for our participation in the Takuba mission are no longer in place. My question is therefore simple: how can we keep Takuba's acquis, which, it must be said, was a virtuous mission and which unfortunately was polluted by the political reality of the two coups d'état? This question is essential. How can we sustain our action in this region for the benefit of the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u24	I'd like to add another facet to this exchange of views that you haven't heard. You're the 3D, three strong women, but I'd like to see a fourth woman added in the future. I believe that trade policy should also be taken into account, because it will allow better coordination. Mrs Wilmès, you are indeed responsible for foreign trade, but that is also regulated at European level. Mrs Kitir said that there is still a situation of economic disruption and little economic perspective for many people. You have said that with all kinds of valuable projects you also want to keep the livestock healthy and increase milk production further. However, if, at the same time, the European Partnership Agreements, which are still asymmetric, are to dump a great deal of milk powder into the Sahel, it will continue to cause economic disruption in the long term. In the long run, then, there will be no sustainable security and this economic disruption and instability will be stirred up, which will provide a permanent basis for recruitment for many jihadist groups who will want to claim their share of the cake armed. That is another suggestion I would like to make, to organise an exchange of views with four women in the future. After all, we still have a crushing responsibility for the economic situation in many countries in the global south. Then I would also like to take up a number of things that have been said by my colleagues. I am sometimes a little indignant by the fact that people say that from Belgium and the European Union we do foreign policy with a certain ethical code or in a more exalted way, as if we do not have any interests. We do have interests in the Sahel, but it is sometimes difficult to name them. It often refers to other countries which are beginning to play a certain role in Africa. We must be very vigilant about this. There are a lot of reservations about this. However, I would like to remind you of the reason why we are here today. The instability in the Sahel, with the various recent coups, recently in Burkina Faso and in Mali, is mainly caused by us. The West has a crushing responsibility for that. Madam Secretary, you just started chronology in 2013 with Operation Serval. The French then set up a military operation to stop two jihadist groups on their way to Bamako. The reason for this is the elephant in the chamber, because very few colleagues have spoken about it, except perhaps Mr Flahaut... is by UN Security Council Resolution 1973 on Operation Unified Protector, where NATO was the subcontractor who destroyed the entire Libyan State. This has led to a large number of groups, which have equally little affinity with democracy and human rights, because that is what it is all about... Gaddafi has been eliminated, with whom I have no affinity for the sake of clarity. I had no affinity with Saddam Hussein either, but that does not mean that I agreed to an illegal war that cost the lives of one and a half million Iraqis. Libya is the same story: the destabilisation that has been caused there has spread like an oil slick throughout the Sahel, and that is our responsibility. Speaking now of a further military presence, the vicious circle is being perpetuated: a military solution is being sought for matters that were previously caused by military interference. I don't care if it bothers me. I have already said in previous discussions that we urgently need to examine our consciences and question our own military intervention. There is talk of interests, which is very hypocritical. When Gaddafi was still there, the European Union and Italy, the old colonialist who still had good ties with Gaddafi, were very well aware of the agreement that had been concluded in which Libya acted as a shock absorber for Sub-Saharan refugees who were not allowed to cross the Mediterranean. Libya had not signed the United Nations Refugee Convention at that time, leaving many people deprived of the most basic human rights. They knew that and closed their eyes as long as the people did not risk crossing the Mediterranean. During the Arab Spring there was still a need for a foot between the door and Mr Gaddafi was removed. Now all of a sudden, there's destabilization. Libya is no longer that shock absorber of the past. We need to be there now to restore stability to ensure that not many refugees will reach the European continent again. There's another slave trade in Libya. In the end, the humanitarian interventions that are always taking place often lead to an even worse situation. That is also the case in Libya. Mali is a former colony of France. If the French remain present, the Malians also start asking questions. Let us not be naive; France also has interests there, which do not take into account human rights, respect for the rule of law or democracy in Mali. France is also particularly militarily present there, regardless of the interests of migration or the refugee problem, for its own economic interests. A large part of the uranium is in the three-country point. There's a lot of mineral wealth. The former Areva is now called Orano, I think. They want to stabilize it because they depend on mineral resources there. That's why France stayed there. Many Malians now experience this presence as a kind of neo-colonial occupation. Today's junta wants to disconnect the ties with France. That, of course, provoked a violent reaction. Mr Losada, the European Union Sahel Charger, said two years ago during an exchange of views that the coup that took place in Mali was not in itself a major problem. After all, there was talk to them and they were not anti-Western in themselves. On 14 January, 1 million people were on the streets of Bamako against successive coups, against economic disruption and disaster, but also against the foreign military presence, including France. That military junta also had to take that into account. They have also become more independent of the Elysée. That has, of course, provoked certain reactions. Among other things, the sanctions regime has been established. Now human rights and respect for democracy are invoked, while in other cases in other countries that is far less important. Another colleague mentioned earlier that in Chad, for example, the President died last year. The President's son seized power, while the Constitution also stated that the President of Parliament should be President in anticipation of the elections. The son was simply succeeded, and France turned a blind eye. In other words, better the dictator you know and you can control than the dictator you can't control. Please allow me to find that a little hypocritical. I believe, once again, in general, that we should be humble when we think that we should export our values, when we in Africa, when there was a budding democracy, have always stopped doing so. I only have to refer to the Congo Commission or the Lumumbaco Commission, and in the meantime probably also to the involvement of the Belgian State in the murder of the first independent president elected by Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u25	Mr De Vuyst, you have listed almost all the African countries. Can you get to your point and your questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u26	Well, very interesting questions have already been asked. Mrs Kitir, you have said that a number of things have been dropped. You know that economic sanctions are now being imposed, which the Malian people do not agree with at all. It is not because it agrees with the military junta that it also agrees with economic sanctions. How one turns it or turns it, people will be affected by it. There we are again, of course, with the problem of policy coherence. You say that certain things are being ignored and that certain humanitarian aid continues to be organised. But what does that mean in concrete terms? What is being put on hold now? For the rest, I made this suggestion on trade policy. I think I can conclude with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u27	Ladies, thank you for your respective presentations. Perhaps here are a few quick considerations and questions. First of all, I would like to note that we are in Europe today faced with an unprecedented security risk, unprecedented since the Second World War, both on the eastern flank and on the southern flank of Europe. I think it is you, Mrs Dedonder, who said that Belgium considers the Sahel a priority strategic area. It is strategic because it has an impact on our security, in particular. With regard to this unprecedented situation, we must note that Europe is in the end extremely fragile, that there is no strategy and that there is no Europe at all on these different fronts as a Europe. We have in front of us adversaries - that's how it must be said - who have a strategy, especially on the East side, and that is a bit the subject of my first question. On the south side, much has been said about the Wagner militia. I had already denounced it earlier by saying that we should not disengage from the risk of giving way to this private militia. Mr. Flahaut was comparing with Blackwater, but with Blackwater, the Americans were not hiding. They had a contract with these privates and actually underestimated a series of things. Here Putin is hiding. And the advantage of this meeting, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, with the Malian minister is that he did not hide from him that he had a proper contract with Russia. This, of course, is contested by Russia, which is not to a close counter-truth. I would have liked you to say a little more about the Russian strategy. What is your analysis of this Russian strategy in these countries? What does Russia do in these countries, which have never been areas of great influence or concentration of the Russian presence? What is Russia looking for, not only with regard to these countries, but also with regard to us? What is its strategy for Europe, since it is now able to destabilise us, at least to worry about us, both in the South and in the East of the continent? Indeed, the question is also how, in a few years, we have moved from cooperation with the countries of northern Africa, the countries of the Sahel, to hostility. What happened? I like it when Europe always beats its mouth. And I hear that on several benches today. We would be guilty of all the evils of the planet, as we were previously guilty of its blessings. It is a form of paternalism and colonialism backwards and I reject this type of analysis. We do have responsibilities that we must be able to face. But we must also not see how the world and the international context have evolved, and the cynicism of a whole series of countries. I can hear my colleague from the PTB speaking about French neocolonialism through some French companies. I don't know what he thinks about China's presence in Africa and how it behaves today in China; I think there is something to think about. Indeed, the world has changed as we continue to care about it. I hear Mrs Kitir saying that we cannot abandon the people. It is the honour of Europe and Belgium to have this kind of reflection, but we are the only ones today to have it. The United States has completely disengaged from Africa. I have just gone to the figures: of the 15,000 MINUSMA soldiers, there are seven Americans. That is to say, they all have a special encrypted phone and they are essentially there to gather information, and not so much for the fate of the Malian people. I just talked about China. It has a very cynical agenda that aims to draw resources from Africa and Russia. Today she has an agenda of conquest. But we don't have a clear agenda. This is one of the things outside of these concerns, and it is again quite honourable. I think the question of our safety needs to be rested. On this African Union/Africa summit, I would like to have some insight from you, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs. There's a new deal to have with Africa, mutual interests. We must leave a form of paternalism and have a new deal in which Africa and Europe, which will have even more common interests in the future than in the past, can assert these common interests of stability, progress and democracy. As I said, we sail on sight. Europe and Belgium do not have a clear strategy for the Sahel. It is true that this is not simple. We have a cooperation strategy. I hear the Minister for Cooperation who said that she has a strategy on climate, on poverty reduction – which is a good thing. I would not wish to be misunderstood, but care must be taken not to be the after-sales service of authoritarian regimes. I've spent a lot of my life doing humanitarian work, doing cooperation. That's indispensable. We mustn't disengage. But care must be taken not to serve authoritarian regimes so that they can show their people that everything is well and that they can remain in place forever. When we do cooperation in these countries that are shifting towards authoritarianism and dictatorship, we must have a lead thread and clearly see with which partners and types of programmes. Many welcomed our disengagement from Takuba. For me, this is an additional failure. We are indeed disengaged. Who can tell me that Takuba had no meaning, but that MINUSMA, of which everyone agreed that it was the largest operation of the United Nations, that it was the most expensive operation, that it was the one that mobilized the most people, has a meaning since it has not fulfilled, since the beginning of its existence, any of its objectives? Maintain 15,000 men and women in Mali for a result such as this one still makes sense? In doing so, I would like to ask a concrete question: what will Belgium's position be on the future of MINUSMA? It is known that its mandate ends in June 2022. If we believe that we need to continue to invest in MINUSMA, will we really do so? Indeed, today the contingents are mainly African. Very few Europeans, except the Germans, are engaged with a dramatic result and a very high human cost. As you said, there are more than 150 deaths. They are mainly Africans who died for a result that is absolutely not the one that was expected. What is the future of MINUSMA? What is the future of the EUTM? If we withdraw from Takuba, does it make sense to engage in the EUTM? I believe that today there is this serious issue of European, Belgian and Sahel disengagement, which leaves a very important empty space for forces that do not necessarily have the same agenda as ours. That would deserve a much more consistent strategy in this regard. I come to my last question to the Minister of Defence. For the moment, how many soldiers do we have in the Sahel? What is the idea of a possible deployment in the coming weeks – since we cannot talk about months? What is the quota? Finally, according to the French President, we will invest $150 billion in investment in Africa. Once again, it is important that we have a very clear vision of how we want to see our relations with the African continent evolve. It's strategic for us. It is not a question of replacing a form of paternalism, before, with a form of cynicism, a simple financial commitment. In my view, we must first and foremost have a political vision of our relationship with Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u28	Thank you to the Ministers for the interesting explanatory statement and the great interest they have in this debate today. Let go of Africa is not an option for our group, both economically and politically, as well as humanitarianly and developmentally. Nor is that the European Union's option. The first thing Von der Leyen wanted to do when she took office was to organise an EU-Africa summit. It was postponed countless times for the sake of corona, but now finally takes place. That was the objective of having a clear strategy with the European Union towards Africa. I hope that will begin this week. It was also a setback against China, which is clearly present, without many conditions. There are many coups and dictatorships supported by the Chinese. Most worrying is that Russia suddenly wants to become a partner there. According to analysts, Europe cannot afford the fight against jihadism in West Africa being waged by the Russians. In the end, we have to stay there. This was also the option in 2020, when the coalition for the Sahel was founded under the leadership of the Sahel-G5 with France and all international development organisations. We had a clear strategy with 4 pillars: 1) counter-terrorism 2) training of military personnel 3) nation building, forming local administrations and police 4) development cooperation. This is a clear strategy that was adopted two years ago. Are we still holding on to that today and are we working on this coalition for the Sahel with those four pillars? I think Belgium is clearly present in the Sahel with 3 embassies, which is huge. With Defense, we also have the biggest operation on the ground. Development cooperation is also there with hundreds of millions. I think it is too far-fetched to say that we are not there and have no strategy. The 3D elements were clearly developed, but they still need cooperation and coherence. We need to work on that. Nor do I think that we should take part in France's bid, where there is clearly a harsh language. However, we must continue to work on dialogue and diplomacy and on that holistic approach. The problems of poverty, climate change, population explosion and underdevelopment can only be tackled holistically. After all, it is those things that lead to insecurity and instability. We need to shape this holistic approach with this 3D approach, and we need to make it clearer. We have everything on the ground to do it. We cannot just look at France, because France has other interests. As a neutral partner, we can achieve more there for the people who need it very much. I therefore call for this holistic approach to be maintained and further developed, including within the framework of that EU-Africa strategy. We have a strong stamp there as a small country, as a country with knowledge of Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Flahaut has already mentioned the importance of your joint presence. The time is now appropriate because there is a great deal to be done at international level about our commitment in the Sahel this week. Prior to these international moments, you have delivered an important message with a clear choice. The choice that you three have made and shared with us here seems to me to be the right one. The attitude of the military junta in Bamako really does not allow for further international cooperation. The attitude towards partners is particularly problematic, of which several examples have already been given. The presence of Russian mercenaries is problematic and the path to democracy is not respected. For all these reasons, no other choice can be made than the one you have set out here. Last week there was a debate in the Committee on Defence on questions by Mr Defossé and myself. The junta's attitude makes it even more dangerous for our troops, who are already working there in another context. Unfortunately, the French say that the Sahel is already a particularly dangerous region. For example, the junta sends out press releases, clearly in inflammatory language with regard to public opinion. We can only decide that every possible form of cooperation is gone. It is clear, as I have heard from many colleagues, that we must remain active in that broad region. Minister Wilmès and Minister Dedonder spoke specifically about the Gulf of Guinea countries. I think you're right about that strategy. In that region, there are more reliable partners, including institutional partners, and there too, from my defence background, there is a clear military cooperation with many countries. I mention the tradition of military cooperation with Benin. Recently, I also saw troops working under Tropical Storm in Gabon. Those countries can and deserve our support. However, if we can no longer get through one door with the country in question, with the host nation, in this case Mali, then there is very little point in sending troops, although it is very sad to see that, first and foremost for the local population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u30	My questions are mainly addressed to Mrs Kitir. Mr Francken referred to the lack of a Sahel strategy. This has been confirmed by Mr De Vriendt. Especially in development cooperation, I miss the global approach. You have a lot of smaller projects that are being financed, all of which may have added value, but I really miss that global approach. How can you effectively carry out the audit when you finance smaller projects each time? I have mentioned this on several occasions about your policy and I miss it again today. You yourself indicated that in Mali one of the major problems is that there is no central authority. Is it not better to focus on that central authority, on setting up legal procedures, on setting up citizens' rights and on monitoring them, rather than on those local initiatives that you support here? You are committed to combating poverty in this poorest region of the world. A structural approach is then necessary. You gave the example of the pregnant woman working in 44 degrees. I believe that it is absolutely essential to focus on reproductive rights in this region. After all, this is one of the regions with the largest overpopulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u31	I give the floor to the Ministers once again. Mrs. Wilmès, you'll be the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u32	Madam President, in reply to the question on the EU strategy for the Sahel, in particular whether there is an EU-Sahel strategy, I would like to say that this strategy will be amended in April 2022. The principles of the EU commitment will be clarified in terms of political and development dimensions. As far as France's intentions are concerned, you will understand that, as Belgian Foreign Minister, it is not for me to express France's intentions here. It is up to France to express them itself! We really appreciate their willingness to think and work together to move forward on this issue with all stakeholders. The Prime Minister confirms to me that he received an invitation from the Élysée to attend a meeting tomorrow night. So it's a case to follow! No one thought that today, after this discussion as thorough as it is between us, we would have finished on this important subject. As far as Belgium is concerned, the Minister of Defence was clear when she mentioned that the conditions today were not met for a KTSG in Mali. I'll let her confirm that if you need it. MINUSMA was mentioned as well as the EUTM mission. We know that there are plurilateral interventions on site. These interventions have influences on each other. They interconnect even if they are different. By definition, when there are movements on one, there are interferences on the other. It is known, for example, that, depending on the evolution of decisions that could or could not be taken on Wednesday - without moving forward on the content of the discussions that will take place, in the case of European actors - the EUTM dimension will probably be affected and that, in any event, no matter what the decision-making process, it will also be necessary to consider discussing the wider involvement of the EUTM at an early stage. With regard to MINUSMA, as Mr. Dallemagne had said, a further discussion on the mandate would be held in June. This will be an important discussion, as it will bring together not only Europeans but also Russians. We must therefore pay attention to the narrative that will be expressed at that time. Yesterday there was indeed a discussion via videoconference. This week there will be a summit of the European Union and the African Union. Of course, the discussions at the summit will be very broad, about the relationship and about the new European-African impetus to be given. A theme that will certainly be addressed is peace and security. I am convinced that the difficulties in the Sahel will also be addressed, not necessarily as a subject in itself but in the wider area of peace and security. A Council of Foreign Ministers is also scheduled for next Monday. We will certainly talk about the situation in Mali. What will be Belgium's view? I have expressed this to you in my introductory statement. Whether it is during the preparation of the Europe-Africa summit or in our statements in general, I think that we have already been able to express, at Belgian level, the importance of working in partnership, equal to equal, in our relations with Africa in general - I am not talking about the Sahel in particular. In an equal partnership, we listen to each other on both sides of the table. We listen to the needs and wishes of both sides of the table. It is true that Europe, when it engages in partnerships, comes with a package wider than the transaction. This is always the case with Europe. Should this package go beyond the exchange programme that needs to be conducted? Certainly not. We have to find the right measure. But must we let go of what makes Europe? Indeed, we are fighting for values, for the equality of men and women, for non-discrimination and for respect for the rule of law - values that are preached within and that it is therefore normal to preach outside. This does not take place in a post-colonialist approach. We are simply convinced that these are universal values, which, when applied and developed throughout the world, also contribute to the peace and well-being of all peoples. Are these values that export as they do overnight? Certainly not. This is also the reason why programs are being made. However, is it abandoned because the path is sometimes more difficult? Neither! I believe that this balance and measure must always be maintained in our approach. We need to explain better why all this is important. Explain why - this is an intervention I was able to make in Marseille at an informal meeting on foreign trade - when there are very strong demands on deforestation, for example, why it is important for the country, not only for Europeans but for the country as such. When you work and ask Europe to work on a due diligence package, why is it so important for countries as such? In our relationship with Africa, I think we must also better explain why it is important, why the country, if it adheres, is in a win-win position. Is too much attention paid to security and the fight against terrorism? We believe that a response aimed solely at a military solution is not enough to combat terrorism. We call for a balanced approach based on a global approach. I've already said that. We stress the central importance of the political and administrative dimension in the Sahel crisis and in the responses to be given. This is in line with the call for a civil and political leap from the European Union Strategy Cell and with the action of the Sahel coalition. That the grip of power can count on the support of the people is a signal for us. We must help governments to develop so that they can provide a proper response to their people. On the other hand, we must also dare to say no. That is also very important. If we don't, others will do it for us and it will become a bigger obstacle for us. When I say that an exclusively military approach is not enough, I do not mean that no military action is possible. Our strategy is one of 3D, where the Defence component is also very important. People are looking for security, and it can be achieved by political means, surely, and it is very naive to think that this could only be done through military action. What are we doing for the Belgians in Mali? The various EU ambassadors work closely together. For example, there was another consular crisis exercise in January. There is also the travel advice that non-essential travel is not recommended, the website is permanently updated to the latest information. This was the case in January with the closure of borders. In addition, we ask Belgians, who still go there despite the travel advice we have learned that lesson since Afghanistan - to register on the website travelersonline, so that we know who is present there. If there is a real problem for the Belgians, the situation will of course change. Some of us are coming in very late. I come to the question of sanctions. I mentioned this in November 2021. There were targeted sanctions against 149 Malian representatives of the executive and legislative branches, as well as their families. In view of the absence of an effective response, in January ECOWAS and the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) adopted broader economic sanctions, with the exception of commodities such as food, fuel and medicines that are still allowed to cross borders. You know that the European Union has followed by punishing five leaders and influential figures who are closely linked to the junta. The purpose of the sanctions is a change in behaviour. We're not penalizing anyone. At European level, there is always a strong desire to ensure that people are not hit hard. With the package that was placed on the table, I don't think that's the case. Questions were asked about the other actors and a very relevant remark was made about the African interlocutors, including the Algerian interlocutor, since, indeed, the situation in the Sahel also threatens its security. I had also met with the Algerian Foreign Minister in Kigali in October, who expressed his fears about the establishment of the Wagner Group in Mali or the failure to follow up on the implementation of the peace agreement. As for the Russian agenda, just think about what is happening in the Central African Republic. This allows the installation of a Russian zone of influence. It is well known – it is not hidden – that Russia loves areas of influence and would like to be able to structure them and certainly expand them at the expense of the Europeans, and, I dare say, certainly when it comes to groups like Wagner, at the expense of the population. We know how they pay! This is a question of geopolitical competition that I have nothing to teach you about. I think that I have taken a look at the answers that can be given at this stage to this delicate question. In my view, there are still many lessons to be learned, particularly in the fight against terrorism. We talked about what happened in Afghanistan. In the coalition against Daesh, it was decided to set up an African working group to see what lessons learned from the work done in this coalition can be used wisely. Again, it is not a copy-paste in the fight against terrorism in Africa. These are extremely sensitive issues. Those who did not understand that it was not enough to slam fingers to find complete solutions but that it was necessary to arrive with a global approach did not follow the news closely. It should also be added that these solutions do not come from outside. If they are not carried in one way or another by the country in question, by the Sahelians in this case, we could do a lot of things, we would not have much results. The work of listening and persuasion must be continued. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u33	The decision-making process was discussed in particular with regard to participation in the Takuba Task Force. I would like to recall the context of the time. When the "Operations 2022" plan was prepared, we are last year, in a context where we are asked like other European countries to come to strengthen the Takuba Task Force. It's not just the French. Of course, there is a strong French presence but it has been joined by a dozen other countries. Belgium is therefore asked in this context to come to help this task force with the aim of combating terrorist groups but also, in the long run, training – which is a bit the core business of the Defence. When we are asked and prepare the "Operations 2022" plan, as is the rule, I propose to the government a whole range of deployment possibilities. The government validated these deployment opportunities in 2022. What happens next? Some people know, I can't imagine the opposite. For each operation deployed, we move to Parliament. For this, there is the Military Operations Monitoring Committee but also an exchange at the level of the Defence Committee in relation to the operations that are actually being implemented. There is therefore a major difference between the planned "Operations" plan and what is actually being deployed. I've always been very clear about that. Whatever some said or wrote about it, I always said that it was an option and that we were going to see the evolution of the political situation on the ground in Mali. When the staff considered this deployment at least a year ago, the situation was different. As you can see, the situation has deteriorated. That is why I would like to inform you that the conditions are not being met at the moment, in particular because we have not received the country's consent, but also because this democratic transition that we were waiting for takes time and has even been postponed to five years. So, at this stage, we are not considering any additional deployment in Takuba. I didn't say here that it was a withdrawal. I am talking about the additional deployment, the KTSG that had been envisaged in the "Operation" plan and which involved about 250 military personnel. We're here. Three of our officers are currently based in Takuba. What's going to happen? I've already indicated it. Meetings between ministers and heads of State have taken place and will continue. The decision will be made and communicated within the next few days. There must be a clear distinction between what I recalled today and the responsibility of several States. We have not taken the decision of a unilateral withdrawal from Takuba, but have indicated that the present conditions do not allow us to strengthen our presence. Nor is it a withdrawal from the Sahel. At this stage, we consider it interesting to continue our engagement in EUTM and MINUSMA missions. Depending once again on the development of the situation, we will see - together with our European and other partners - whether we need to adapt our participation. At the Sahel level, we have had bilateral cooperation with Niger in recent years. What's next? Some have made proposals, including moving CATSG to the east, and others refer to some countries. I believe that we should not rush and take the time for analysis, both internally and with the other European partners. I obviously have very frequent contacts with them. In fact, I asked the staff to explore different options to adapt this Operations 22 plan. Is there an impact with Ukraine? No, there is no connection with this CATSG that was planned to strengthen TAKUBA and the troops that are in preparation for NATO. One does not replace the other, these are two completely different things. I think I went around what had been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Some have asked about the impact on development cooperation, in particular whether we are withdrawing or whether we are reorganising our cooperation. More specifically, I will zoom in on our regional climate partnership, in which we are participating for the first time. I believe that it will be important in the coming days and in the coming weeks to see how that will be evaluated for us. Several Commissioners have already expressed concern that we should not leave the people behind and that we should ensure that there is shelter. My first choice is, of course, that we continue to do so through a bilateral agreement, but if that is not possible, we will be forced to switch back to humanitarian aid at some point. That does mean that we cannot follow it in a structural manner. Mr De Vuyst, when I am talking about putting on hold, I am not talking about putting humanitarian aid on hold, but about putting on hold the talks that would normally start to launch the new bilateral programme with Mali. We have put this on hold for the time being in order to see what the situation is and what context we will find ourselves in. I believe that everyone agrees with us that we need to find a solution for the people, who must ultimately bear the consequences of something they are not responsible for. The climate crisis is, of course, also important to us. That is why, for the first time, we have opted for a regional approach, because we want to create a kind of partnership. Mrs Depoorter, that is an answer to your question as to what the strategy is. For the first time, we are adopting a regional approach to climate change, because the climate crisis also creates a great deal of instability. That is why it remains important for us in the context of development cooperation to know what the next steps will be. I think my colleagues have already explained the strategy. Belgium is represented at European level, as Mrs Wilmès has already explained in detail. I would also like to add that for the first time at Belgian level, an interdepartmental document has been drawn up which will also be agreed for the first time. The role of development cooperation in this will be to focus on the root cause of the conflicts, and to see how we can remedy them. We are in a rapidly changing environment and flexibility is more appropriate than ever. There were also questions about safety. Mr Francken set an example of his sister working with the World Bank, who had to take a course for the first time. It is indeed quite violent to experience such an evolution, which is anything but healthy, for itself. I would like to remind you that this has now become routine for our people who are on the ground every day and have to face it. Our partners, the humanitarian actors, are used to working in such a context. They should not switch immediately, because their organisation and their operation is already in place. When we look at the development cooperation actors in the South, there is a change in the security situation, which has a huge impact on cooperation, especially for our executive agency Enabel. As far as the embassy itself is concerned, there is a security plan set in motion once the consular officer for the Belgian community sends a message to that effect. Our executive agency Enabel has drawn up its own crisis plan and also participates in the security consultation at the Belgian embassy on a weekly basis. Our actors also work together with the locally anchored partners. Let me give you a concrete example. Enabel has decided to allow only convoys with at least two wagons on site, provided that a safety briefing has been carried out beforehand and approval has been obtained from the local authorities. From now on, satellite telephones are also provided in the wagons. Enabel has also withdrawn from a number of zones, which are now controlled by the jihadists. Where the safety of personnel cannot be guaranteed, it is decided not to be present for the time being. So much for the impact of the strategy. There was another question about ECOWAS by Mr De Vuyst, who asked about its consequences. The existing sanctions are not about the basic drugs, such as food, medicines and fuel. However, it is clear that sanctions do not benefit Mali's socio-economic situation and its inhabitants. If there is a shortage of trade, that means that the price of the basic goods is being increased, and that in a country where people already have no margin to cope with that price increase, certainly not if we know that the corona crisis in those countries has not only had a health impact but also a very severe economic impact. The sanctions could therefore possibly affect certain programmes and projects of our development cooperation, because, for example, certain goods are no longer available or because their prices are rising. We are therefore faced with this directly. At present, however, the situation seems to be relatively under control. However, that may change. Our post in Bamako and my services are monitoring the situation so that we can react quickly and, if there is to be more humanitarian aid, we can switch.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u35	There has been a very efficient response. Colleagues, normally the last word is for you. We have exceeded our time, especially in our statements. Are there any short replies from certain Members or is the debate sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u36	It'll be brief! The decision that will probably be taken tomorrow will probably be a symbolic decision at first since no one will want to lose face in a world as uncertain as the present world. There are two open fronts: on the one hand Ukraine and on the other Russia; and there is Africa. No one's gonna want to lose their face. Above all, I would like to retain the words of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs when she insisted on partnership. I believe that this is the only way to proceed: to maintain dialogue and to establish partnership because it is based on mutual respect which is also based on a dialogue which must be honest, frank, complete and which also concerns a lack of model transposition. For this is always the problem and also perhaps not always wanting to impose deadlines that are not tenable or to want to build houses starting with the roof.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic699x.u37	Thank you for the great interest in the debate. It was useful and timely. I would also like to thank the ministers for their availability.
