ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, road safety is a topic that is very close to my heart and on which I questioned you a number of times in 2021. This may not be different in 2022. This question dates from before Christmas, but it is important to get an answer to it. Last year a car was flashed at a speed of 306 km/h. Apparently, that was too soon to get a fine for it. The type of speed camera is only approved for flashing up to 300 km/h. This is, of course, an exceptional case, but we must also tackle these reckless drivers hard. Is the message true that a KB limits the maximum speed with which to flash? Why is there a maximum limit? Did you receive the request from the federal police to adjust the limits in the KB? Will you answer this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, the technical requirements to be met by speed cameras are laid down in the 2010 Royal Decree, in particular in Annex 2. For speeds above the range of measurement of the speed camera determined by the manufacturer, the device shall indicate that the measured speed is higher than the maximum range of measurement. The current legislation does not exclude the flashing of a car at a speed of more than 300 km/h. A fine may indeed be imposed for this. A report may then be drawn up stating that the speed measured is higher than the maximum measuring range of the apparatus. The condition is, of course, that a photograph is taken of the vehicle in question so that the offender can also be identified. That report will then allow the judge to pronounce a possible conviction, such as a fine or driving ban. There may also be repeated charges for exceeding the speed limit and/or inappropriate speed. The approval of the speedometers themselves is the responsibility of the Minister for Economics for the speed measurements on the motorways and of the Ministers responsible for this within each region for the speed measurements on the other roads.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u3	Madam Minister, that was a clear answer and I am pleased to note that someone who can measure faster than the measuring device can be fined. This government has indeed stated in the government agreement that it is an important ambition to better or more identify traffic offences, to increase the chances of getting caught. More police checks are needed in order to be able to deal more strictly with repeaters and speed devils, so that we can finally work on fewer road accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u4	Madam Minister, first of all, I also wish you all the best. I've already asked you about rumors about the disappearance of the railway police at the Mons station site. In the field, the lack of response to date reinforces staff concerns. In our last discussion on this subject, here in committee last January, you were replying to me that no definitive solution had been decided and that the scenario referred to concerning the total withdrawal of the SPC at certain stations, which was, therefore, still under consideration at Mons. Almost a year after that, minister, could you please tell me how you are thinking about the need to maintain a railway police station at Mons station?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u5	Collègue Thiébaut, the specialization of the railway police is an evolutionary process and certainly not a revolution. We are working with the Standing Committee on Local Police to arrive at a new ministerial circular better suited to the practices taking place on the ground and to respond to the security challenges on our priority area of action, namely trains, tracks and wharfs for supra-local phenomena. We do not want to rush into this consultation with the CPPL, which is why I think it takes time and rightly so. We have recently received the latest comments from the CPPL and these are under review. The railway police want to move towards a structure with a direction and five MER services working in the region, i.e. the SPC Brussels, the SPC Nord region with a MER service in Antwerp and including the provinces of Antwerp, Limburg and Flemish Brabant, the SPC West region with a MER service in Ghent and a satellite antenna in Bruges including the provinces of East and West Flanders, the SPC South region with a MER service in Charleroi and including the provinces of Hainaut and Walloon Brabant and finally, the SPC East region with a MER service in Liège and a satellite antenna in Namur including the provinces of Namur, Liège and Luxembourg. Implement more international than provincial teams, i.e., an organization with fewer units, but stronger and more appropriate units to meet significant security challenges. As a result, in addition to being visible, accessible and accessible on its priority and specialized field of action, the railway police can also focus more on controls and proactive phenomena, as required by its partners and authorities. As a first step, the police of the Mons satellite will work from the premises of the DirCo, given the outdated containers on the parvis of the Mons station. In a second phase, all SPC officers in the South region will be located in Charleroi. The intervention teams will continue to cover the entire territory of the province of Hainaut by adapting their working hours and in consultation with the zone chiefs. They will have to direct the work towards sensitive points of the rail network. In the long run, the objective is to increase the flexibility of the teams in the region, in particular to set up targeted actions by integrating the needs of all partners in the security chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u6	For technical reasons, I was unable to complete my question, but I heard the end of your answer. I will look in the reports at the details of this one. It's a little hard to reply without hearing your answer. Thank you, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u7	Madam Minister, your General Policy Note 2022 – on which we discussed a great deal – states: "In 2022, we will examine, in cooperation with all the parties concerned, the possibility of introducing 24-hour shifts into the rescue zones." If I have been able to address this issue in this more comprehensive debate and you have answered in particular that social consultation remains your priority, I would like to know, Madam Minister, what progress has been made, the lines studied and the agenda of the various working groups and forthcoming meetings that will address the issue of the status of firefighters and the desirability of setting up a 24-hour working regime for fire service personnel and the conditions of such a regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u8	The working group set up to determine whether a 24-hour working regime for fire service personnel is possible, and if so, under what conditions and under what modalities, met three times last year from September to December. At the September meeting, a list of questions was drawn up so that the working group could collect information useful for reflection. At the October meeting, each organization that provided information presented the information. In addition, a large number of studies and documents from workplace prevention services were forwarded to the working group. He was asked to analyse these studies and documents. At the meeting on 20 December, on the basis of the analysis of the various studies and the documents exchanged, the administration presented a draft conclusion. The members of the working group are now invited to submit their comments on the draft by mid-January. Following these comments, final conclusions will be drawn and submitted in the form of an opinion of the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u9	Madam Minister, I have consulted the proposals, as you may know. You have not yet positioned yourself in relation to the results and proposals, if I believe your answer. I will therefore wait a few more weeks to ask you again about this subject. I have read that the working group will already propose to maintain the figure of 24 hours average certain conditions for the areas wishing to do so. Could you confirm this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u10	Sir, I will come back with the conclusions after mid-January. We will certainly have an opportunity to discuss this in this committee at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u11	Madam Minister, in this case I shall be content with that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u12	At the end of August last year, the report of a study commissioned by the FPS Home Affairs, General Executive Board, Security and Prevention appeared on the possibilities and challenges of the integrated police's use of bodycams. It was only available to the wider public in December. An important issue is access to the footage of bodycams. Do citizens have the right to direct access to the recordings in which they themselves appear or not? Now citizens are only entitled to indirect access through the Supervisory Body to the police information, the COC, or in the case of a criminal investigation, via a request for access to the Prosecutor of the King or the investigating judge. The KU Leuven study states that some police areas where bodycams are used do organise direct access for citizens. However, they are not legally obliged to do so. The study concludes that it seems appropriate to legally anchor direct access. Do you intend to follow that recommendation of the study of KU Leuven? If so, when can we expect a legislative initiative? What legal provisions should be amended? What are the experiences of the police zones which already give direct access to the images? Are there any other recommendations from the study that you will include in the policy on bodycams?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u13	The law on police or WPA already provides a legal framework for the use of body cams by the police. Following the COC's recommendations on the use of body cams, the police have proposed a draft legislative amendment of the WPA, which is now under discussion. This draft is in line with the additional proposals contained in the KUL's scientific research, in which the integrated police have contributed. There are currently no data on the experiences cited in your second question. However, the law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data will be subject to an evaluation for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u14	We look forward to the legal initiative you will take on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u15	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u16	Mrs Jadin, on the basis of the information in the national data bank, it is possible to draw up a report on the number of facts recorded by the police in relation to the exploitation of the debauchery of others and incitement to debauchery. However, it is not possible to determine how many cases of female students are involved. I would also like to inform you that prostitution is not an illegal act in itself. On the other hand, the incitement or exploitation of this act is reprehensible. Finally, with regard to your last question, I refer you to the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Genders and Diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you. What was important to me was to get numbers. I've received some. It is obvious that, following your answer, I will bounce back to your colleague in charge of Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, since I have not yet had the opportunity to meet with you, allow me to offer you my best wishes for the coming year. Minister, the issue of respect for animal welfare is obviously important. Although much of this is a matter of regional and even local concern, the police have an important role to play in combating ill-treatment and/or animal neglect, particularly in the filing and follow-up of complaints. As an article in the newspaper La Dernière Heure pointed out, the number of complaints on this subject coming to police stations continues to rise, while the training of our police officers is often relatively low on the procedures to be initiated, on the indications of abuse, on the knowledge of regional legislation, etc. Minister, do you intend to take an initiative to train police officers on the issue of animal welfare, e.g. through the establishment of a focal point per zone? If so, do you intend to consult with the Regions, so that the actors on the ground whose shelters are consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u19	Mr President, Mr Senesael, as you will recall, animal welfare is essentially a regional competence. Many administrative directives and preventive measures are therefore the responsibility of the Regions. The police services and, in particular, the local police areas have of course a role to play in this context, animal welfare being in general a part of the functional training for police officers appointed to the position of neighbourhood officer. It is up to the authorities of the local police areas, depending on their needs and the phenomena they encounter in particular, to turn to the provincial schools within their jurisdiction in order to train more specifically some of their staff members in these matters. For example, some provincial police schools have already organized ongoing training specifically on animal welfare.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarifications you have provided. It is true that there is an animal welfare unit in Wallonia. The aim of this study is to control the different places where the number of animals is important. You can think of circuses, breeding, animalry. But it might be possible to create such a unit with a perhaps different objective, that of controlling individual offences. A special federal unit could then effectively combat domestic abuse of animals. This could, of course, be done in consultation with the police schools to which you refer in your response. There has been a special unit covering the city of New York for more than five years. It combats domestic violence against animals on a daily basis by receiving and handling complaints. The results appear to be conclusive. I think that this could be the subject of a particular follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know that there is widespread trafficking in works of art, art and antiquities in Europe and in the world, some of which originates from the looting of cultural property in the Middle East. This reality also affects our country sometimes seen in the media as the European hub of this trafficking and, alas, also as the weak European link in the fight against this trafficking and these traffickers. Investigative journalists try to shed light on these phenomena, to denounce the authors and the networks. The question of the link between this trafficking in stolen works and objects of art and the financing of organized crime and terrorism was clearly raised. For example, El Bakraoui's name is on the list of people selling stolen works at the Van Buuren Museum in Uccle in 2013. Under the previous legislature, one of your predecessors, Mr. Jambon, decided to close the Art and Antiquities unit of the Federal Police, considering this phenomenon as a minor. It therefore ignored the link between trafficking in works of art and the financing of terrorism. Unfortunately, this has resulted in a lack of follow-up on cases and a loss of police expertise in this area. This has also provoked some international outcry with reactions from international organizations such as UNESCO, Interpol, but also from our neighbouring countries, which, unlike us, are strengthening their services to combat these traffickings. Belgium was therefore somewhat pointed out because of its inability to fulfil its international obligations in this area. At the end of the previous legislature, during current business, your predecessor, Pieter De Crem, had, for his part, recognized, in February 2020, that the staff assigned to the fight against trafficking in works and objects of art was insufficient. He was talking about strengthening the services concerned and, in any case, setting up an automated data bank called ARTIST (Art information system). This tool is essential, which is why this work needs to be continued and supplemented. Moreover, there is also the work carried out by the SPF Economy in the context of the implementation of the European Directive on combating money laundering. The inspectors responsible for this work must obviously be able to rely on the judicial police. My questions concern the means – human, financial, material and computer – available to this Art and Antiquities unit, placed under the general direction of the fight against serious and organised crime (DJSOC). To my knowledge, the cell had only two agents – one of whom retired on 1 January and the other had to take it in the course of the year – and administrative support for encoding. There is therefore a clear lack of resources in this service. Minister, will retiring people be replaced? Will you be able to identify additional or new resources? That is what your predecessor Mr. From Crem, but also from the Senate, which, in 2018, produced a report that I invite you to read. Will you also provide training resources? The fight against this type of crime and the obligations associated with the computerized database require specialized personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u22	Mr Delizée, if I am of course going to answer your question, I would like to ask you a written question about the figures; this will allow me to answer you in detail. Here's the information I can give you. At the central level of the Federal Judicial Police, the first phase of adaptation of the ARTIST database has been completed. The other phases have not yet been launched. In addition, the facts will remain encoded in the General National Data Bank in accordance with the Police Function Act. Strategic figures and data will therefore continue to be available. The deconcentrated directorates of the Federal Judicial Police will conduct specialized, high-quality supra-local investigations in accordance with the Law on Optimization of Police Services. In this spirit, the local police, in accordance with the seven basic features, are responsible for the registration of complaints and local investigations in case the investigation is entrusted to them by the magistrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm still hungry because I feel like I don't have answers to my main questions. What are the means available to the Arts and Antiquities Unit today in this DJSOC? If the officers are retired, this means that there is no more specialist or trained staff. I don't really have an answer to that question. I hear we've made some progress on the data bank, but we also need people to keep track of all this over time. Minister, your answer is a little frustrating in terms of the issue at hand. I invite you to review the work done by the Senate in 2018. In its recommendations, the Committee requests that there be a point of support, a point of contact at the federal level that will coordinate efforts and ensure follow-up. This service must be strengthened in terms of agents: minimum four agents. However, with pensions, there are zero police officers and one administrative officer. I don't know what this person is going to do alone in this department. I will come back to the issue because there is a real stake in this type of crime. In the past, Mr. Jambon considered it minor. I think this is a mistake and it is linked to networks that could possibly finance terrorist actions. There is a real need to strengthen services and ensure coordination. I do not believe that the solution lies in the local areas. There is no expertise in art in local areas to ensure proper follow-up of these investigations, let alone coordination. There is a lack of resources and there should be a willingness to strengthen, which I regret not having heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 55023460C by Mr Theo Francken has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u25	Madam Minister, reports recently published in the media about cities and municipalities that have entered into a partnership and have entered into a contract with a consortium consisting of a number of firms. These companies approached them with the commercial product "travel control as a service." The consortium conducts a study, moves to the installation of cameras, installs the network, provides calibration of the cameras, records the determinations and provides the production of a document via processing software. All the municipality has yet to do is to conclude the contract and make authorised persons available for processing. For this purpose, the consortium charges a flat rate of EUR 24 per determination. In the meantime, a lot of ink has flowed on this. During a debate in the Flemish Parliament, the Flemish Minister for Home Affairs, Bart Somers, took a position which I think was quite reasonable and asked the municipalities not to conclude any contracts with private partners for the construction of route checks for the time being. Madam Secretary, I have given you a whole series of questions in writing. I'm trying to put them together, buy them time. A first set of questions concerns the question of whether this group has contacted you, your cabinet or the police in advance. A second set of important questions concerns legislation. I believe that there is a lack of clarity as to the legality of the findings. Can these cameras, which are owned, maintained and calibrated by a commercial company, be legally used for the detection of traffic offences? Is this method in accordance with GDPR legislation? What is the legal basis for obtaining, editing, storing, commercialising information from the DIV? Finally, I have a series of questions about cooperation in the future. I would like some clarification from you as to whether there are plans to cooperate with that company in the future. Do you find a system in which the operator has a commercial advantage in ensuring that as many findings are made as possible, an appropriate working method? In my view, the aim of traffic checks is to identify fewer infringements and not to generate more revenue, as that consortium does. In other words, do you agree to the words of the Flemish Minister of Home Affairs in this context and not to engage in such commitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u26	Mr Depoostere, my answer will be rather brief, given the constellation in the division of powers. As you know, the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions is the basis for the division of powers, including on the subject in question, whereby the power to determine and prosecute speed limits on public roads with the exception of motorways has been conferred on the regions. Since 2020, Article 29c of the Road Traffic Act has also allowed Flemish cities and municipalities to determine administrative fines in their regulations or regulations for limited speeding offences. If the city council chooses to do so, these offences will no longer be punishable by criminal law. In that case, they will be depenalized. For this reason, neither the FPS Home Office nor the federal police were consulted or applied for the problems you raise. I therefore propose that you address yourself to the Flemish Government for the more detailed answer to the questions, as the matter falls within its competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for your very brief reply. We agree on that. Of course, what you're saying is true. You have given a perfect legal answer. However, Madam Minister, I expected you to give a political answer, since you are responsible for law enforcement and internal affairs at federal level. I do not think it is right for private companies to take charge of law enforcement, regardless of whether that matter belongs to the regional or federal jurisdiction. That doesn't really matter here. Public authorities must be well aware of this and try to formulate a common response to it. It certainly seems to me to be a very bad evolution. However, I will keep your advice in mind and once again urge my colleagues in the Flemish Parliament to force the Flemish Government to adopt a position on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u28	I haven't seen Mr. Raskin. His question No. 55023548C on the same subject therefore lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u29	Madam Minister, I questioned you several times last year on this subject, also in writing. Measuring is knowing. We can formulate strong objectives on alcohol controls in road safety plans, but if we do not have the correct figures on the number of alcohol controls in the various zones, then it is also difficult to target the figures, which is precisely the objective that was included in the federal government agreement, for example. It is known that there is a problem with the figures. Your predecessor, Minister De Crem, assumed that we take an estimated 1.6 million breath tests every year. He received that figure as a result of the attitude measurement by Meesmann and Schoeters in 2016. However, that number is significantly higher than the number of registered tests over the past five years. Only in 2019 we came close to that figure. The Permanent Commission of the Local Police has been a requesting party for years for simplified registration, whereby the data can be automatically exported from the breath tests and breath analyzers. This will make it easier for us to have the figures. One of your predecessors, Minister Jambon, made announcements about this in 2016. Five years later, we do not yet see the necessary changes on the ground. We still have incomplete information on where and how many alcohol controls are kept out of traditional bob campaigns. In your reply to my written question, you indicate that federal police will urge local police areas to register the checks, as requested in the letter, but you still do not answer the question of the Local Police Permanent Commission. What are the obstacles to simplified registration? Is there a tool available for simplified registration? If not, is the tool possibly under development? If so, where is it already being used and how and when will it continue to be rolled out? Is there a need for an adaptation of procedures, legislation or circulars in order to introduce simplified registration? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u30	Currently, police services do not use simplified registration. To date, all data entered into the devices will be re-entered later in ISLP, including the number of tests taken and the results. Through mini-USB, a storage of digital data is already available in Dräger's current devices. However, the automatic transfer of the data entered to, for example, an ISLP environment is not yet taking place. There is also a chance of further automation. In addition to the actual recording of the data, it would of course be useful to be able to automatically recover the data in a CV. The automation of the processes is an important spearhead in my policy paper. The i-Police program allows us to optimize as many processes as possible, using data from other sources. Now that the i-Police programme has been launched, each process should be considered in the light of this. I will ask that i-Police's principles and conditions be included in the layout of the framework contracts when purchasing new devices. After all, it is essential that the devices that provide data are also modern enough to be able to exchange data in an efficient and therefore digital manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The aim must be to increase road safety. Drivers who have been drinking, we want to keep out of traffic. Anything that can contribute to that, we need to engage. So I am very happy to hear that you want to see how the i-Police system can provide automatic registration, which will give us the figures. Controls are a way to keep the finger on the wrist. Look at the reports we got from police zones the last week of December, when another bob campaign was held. The conclusion was that the average number of positives was slightly longer than normal. Again, we have to find that drinking and driving are still a problem. All of us keep saying, including you, Minister Gilkinet and the fellow MEPs of the Mobility Committee, that the chance of getting caught must go up. This policy choice was also included in the coalition agreement. However, the figures I requested from you indicate that the chances of getting caught do not increase, because we cannot carry out sufficient checks. Automation will certainly ensure that we can carry out more controls. Raising the chance of getting caught on paper is a good thing, but we must not forget that there is a staff shortage of 33%. All these things together make me still convinced that introducing zero tolerance can also be an answer to this problem. So I will certainly continue to follow it up in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u32	Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you about racism in the world of football. The last time, it was in May, after a meeting between the Bruges Club and the Sporting d'Anderlecht where an anti-Semitic song had been played by fans but also by Noa Lang, a professional player from FC Bruges. I would remind you that these discriminatory acts, whether racist, anti-Semitic, Islamophobic or homophobic, have no place in sports folklore. These are offences in the eyes of the laws on incitement to hatred and certainly facts that fall within the scope of Articles 23 and 23bis of the Football Act. Since then, it has become clear that more and more efforts must be made urgently to counter this racism, which is becoming increasingly prevalent and unbridled in and outside the stadiums. On Sunday 19 December, Vincent Kompany, coach of the Sporting d'Anderlecht, on a trip to FC Bruges, again denounced racist insults to his staff during and after the meeting. These supporters continue to act with impunity and it is more than time to take action. In addition, it is felt that the Belgian football authorities unfortunately do not take this case in arms. Madam Minister, as a result of these unworthy comments, have any measures been taken, in particular, under the Football Act? Are you in contact with the Pro League to jointly take tougher action against supporters and players who speak out discriminatoryly? Are you considering finally putting an end to the phenomenon by strengthening anti-discrimination measures in the world of football?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u33	Mr Prévot, the Bruges police have drawn up a report against unknown persons. The police will try to identify the perpetrators of these acts in collaboration with the Club. He expressed his readiness to impose a civil exclusion on the authors. If a report is drawn up on the basis of the football law, the Football Cell will begin the administrative procedure by which a sanction may also be imposed as soon as it is received. In my answer to your question of May 2021, I indicated to you that, in order to give impetus to increase resistance to racism and discrimination and to stimulate the detection of such acts, I invited the world of football to actively develop or cooperate in concrete initiatives and projects. Meanwhile, the Pro League has introduced a project to implement the authors' reactive training program and the proactive employee awareness program in clubs as well as online player protection. On Wednesday, October 13, 2021, the cooperation between the Pro League and the Museum of Holocaust and Human Rights - Caserne Dossin was officially launched, as part of the above-mentioned project, by a seminar in Malines. My services were present and, in addition to the financial stimulus, they will also actively monitor the implementation of the project and serve in this regard as a sounding board. Following the various incidents that have taken place in and around football stadiums in recent months, I confirm that I am in consultation with the world of football, in this case the Pro League, the RBFA, the clubs and the police, in order to unite our forces and develop a common approach aimed at ensuring security around football. This approach should be based on zero tolerance. In addition to the above-mentioned Pro League project, I would also like to give a financial boost to the KAA Gent Foundation in collaboration with ASBL IN-Gent, the city of Ghent, the KAA Gent Club, ASBL Sportstewarding, the Federation of Fans, ASBL ORBIT, the Gypsy football clubs, Every talent count and the Artevelde Higher School in Ghent. This project focuses, among other things, on the development of initiatives to raise awareness and activate players and spectators, including training for volunteers, parents and football fans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, I am glad to hear that the police are going to try to recognize the perpetrators and that the club – I was still expecting – would be inclined to initiate civil proceedings in the event that the perpetrators were identified. But let me still find it a little light. The minimum we can expect is to be able to collaborate with the Pro League clubs. In fact, in your reply in May, you told me that you had invited the football authorities to take the case in arms-to-body, but that remains very weak on their side. I therefore believe that this invitation must be much more firm in your leadership. You recalled one or the other initiative, including the seminar in Malines. It's very good, but unfortunately – and sorry to report it, it's in the realm of symbolism and cosmetics. What we expect, what I expect, is obviously a much firmer policy in relation to these authors: that we can no longer hear pseudo-supporters in our stadiums and outside our stadiums imitating monkey screams when a colored player touches the ball, making racist, homophobic and anti-Semitic allusions. Unfortunately, from weekend to weekend, these facts are repeated and I have the impression that, at the level of football bodies and perhaps also at the level of other bodies, this issue is not caught up. These people continue, with impunity, to chant utter utter shame. I therefore expect, on your part, Madam Minister, more voluntarism in order to eradicate this kind of speech which is not appropriate for our football stadiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u35	Madam Minister, this pilot project attracted my attention, because as far as accidents in our society and smartphones are concerned, I fear that we are not always on the right track. We see today that if an incident happens, a lot of people tend to call in their smartphones and start filming. That's because we've only had these things in our back pocket for over a decade and never really learned how to deal with them. What was in the newspaper article was actually very striking: the fireman who quoted the pilot project said that people are still filming and so we should use those images. I recognized the same contradiction that we saw in the facial recognition software at the police. On the one hand, there are the security services, who say that the technology is there and so we better use it. On the other hand, however, I believe that we, as policy-makers, should reflect on the possible social side-effects of this. For this pilot project, I'll give you two. Firstly, we give the signal that it is okay to make images of an accident, and I wonder how other bystanders will react when they see it. Secondly, I ask myself questions about the voluntary nature of this. You will probably answer me that we will always ask people voluntarily, but what if there is an accident later where someone dies and the family hears afterwards that someone said he would rather not participate? Those are things we need to think about. I am not saying that it is not a good thing that pilot projects are being carried out, but I am asking questions about this. I would therefore like to ask you, in particular, what is the origin of this pilot project, whether there are any results and how you continue to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u36	I am indeed aware of that pilot project, which was rolled out by the aid zone Centre of the province of East Flanders. Ghent's 112 emergency power station is not involved in that project and does not receive the images. It is the rescue zone itself that contacts the caller with the request to forward images. Those images will then be received directly in the fire department's emergency room. It cannot be ruled out that emergency power stations 112 will be able to work with or want to work with footage in the future. Working with footage can undoubtedly bring benefits in the assessment of an incident, but is at the same time a delicate matter, as you yourself pointed out. In addition to the technical feasibility, my services together with Health will therefore also study relevant aspects of liability, but also privacy and well-being, of operators, callers and bystanders and develop a working framework around them. The project of the Relief Zone Centre stipulates that it is always the dispatcher who will ask for the transmission of images. The right of initiative with the operator seems to me to be a good starting point, as well as appropriate training and support. I look forward to the evaluation of this project in East Flanders. Comments or requests for adjustment from the emergency control centre 112 will be delivered to the emergency area concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u37	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I'm looking forward to that evaluation with you. I believe that we must weigh the social disadvantages against the advantages that such a system could have. I fear that this is a very delicate exercise, but it absolutely must be done. I continue to believe that security services can take initiatives in these matters, but ultimately it is the policy that will decide on them. The reason why I am particularly interested in this is that I have tabled a bill on the making of footage of road victims. This is currently being evaluated in the context of the revision of the Criminal Code. It is a very important matter which I will continue to follow with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u38	I'm already in a lot of WhatsApp groups, both private and professional. It's no different with the police. Many corps today use WhatsApp to communicate with each other, sometimes more about things that are not directly professionally linked. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. In the Netherlands it was seen at some point that things sometimes go wrong in those groups. Things happen in those groups that aren't appropriate. There has been an advisory committee and it said that freedom of expression in such groups also has its limits. When someone there does something inappropriate and is not flogged back by colleagues, it sometimes gives implicit approval of the incident. It is sometimes very difficult to detect this in a collective context. Moreover, the behaviour as an outlet should not be condoned. There have also been rulings in the Netherlands in which the judge stated that a WhatsApp or Facebook group of 20 or 30 persons is no longer private and therefore no longer a closed group. That has even led to suspensions and dismissals. People who post wrong things there should also be able to be partially protected from it. Madam Secretary, are there any incidents in our corps? Isn't it useful to communicate proactively about that, to indicate that people need to think carefully? It is not because a WhatsApp group looks like a closed group, that it cannot therefore be regarded as public business communications in function of such a corps. If a police officer or firefighter is facing this, what can he do with it? Is there any procedure for reporting this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u39	From the data available to the Internal Operation and Quality Monitoring Service, ten facts of inappropriate behaviour via social media have been known to the federal police in the last two years. This could include Facebook, TikTok or WhatsApp. With regard to the findings of the P Committee, I would refer you to a reply to that department. When using social media, including WhatsApp in an open or closed group, staff shall always be obliged to respect the dignity of the post and refrain from any expression that might prejudice it, as also mentioned in the police deontological code. A specific directive on the use of social media was also adopted. Staff are regularly reminded of this through, inter alia, internal communication channels. In doing so, staff shall be informed, inter alia, not to raise operational files, to take into account professional secrecy, the secrecy of the investigation, copyright and also privacy legislation. The law of 15 September 2013 on the notification of a suspicion of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of its staff has been applicable to the federal police since the 2019 law amendment, as amended on 12 December 2021. Under this legislation, staff may at present make an external notification to the P Committee. The law provides for the internal component of the reporting system to be incorporated by trusted persons integrity. The European Directive requires additional protection of reporters and also allows anonymous notifications. The federal police have participated in a federal steering committee over the past year and two working groups to transpose this directive into national law. Pending the further development of this reporting system with trusted integrity, staff can already contact the Department of Integrity of the Federal Police. During initial training in communication and deontology, prospective inspectors are also made aware of the use of social media, the dangers associated with it, the framework and the limits of freedom of expression. These subjects are also the subject of further training for police officers in office. For example, continuing training is specifically devoted to the use of social media. Staff may participate voluntarily, at their request or at the request of their responsible or management. As far as the fire department is concerned, I don't have any information on any incidents. Each rescue zone shall be responsible for the operational operation of its services and for the operations of personnel employed. The aid zones themselves also monitor compliance with the rules and directives. For example, the Ministerial Letter of 9 August 2011 points to the obligation of professional secrecy and discretion of firefighters. They must clearly not share information and images which they have been aware of in the context of their duties. Articles 8 to 13 of the administrative statute are also important. These articles refer to the loyalty, integrity and sense of duty that the firefighter must show. One must exercise one's duty without discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u40	Thank you for your detailed answer. It's a search of all of us: from firefighters and police officers, but also from policy makers. After all, we have only been using these means of communication for about ten years, as I said in my previous question. I think it is important and good that we pay attention to this and look at what is needed in consultation. I dare not put my hand into the fire that it always and everywhere goes equally well in those groups. What is sometimes meant to be innocent can sometimes get out of hand. That is why, as the Minister says, it is a good thing that attention is already paid to it in training today. That's how we move forward together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u41	Mr President, Minister, the Commerce Information Network is a collaboration between the representative of Belgian commerce Comeos, the police and your FOD. The purpose of the platform is to provide an answer to organised retail crime. To their great frustration, many retail chains still see the same thieves gangs pop up in different branches throughout the territory of our country. Through the COMIN platform, traders can share information on shop crime with a supralocal or organised character on a secure portal, which the police also have access to. This makes it easier for the police to start investigations, as they can make more links between different facts of retail crime through the information on the platform. Moreover, through COMIN, the police may also keep the traders concerned informed of the progress of the investigation into the facts reported and may also pass on prevention tips to the connected traders. The overarching purpose of the platform is mainly to relieve the police. The traders concerned are making considerable efforts to this end. According to the stakeholders, the platform is working well today, but it lacks a specific legal framework that should provide additional guidance for the police. Today, some police forces still have doubts about whether they can use the platform or whether it is a private initiative, although the Home Office was involved in the elaboration. Comeos notes today that the platform, particularly on the French-speaking side, is difficult to get off the ground. However, a broad use of the platform would be a welcome addition to the fight against organised retail crime. I have three questions. How intensive is the platform currently used by the federal and local police forces? Do you have eyes on that? Have you heard of Comeos' request to create a legal framework for the platform? Are you willing to look for a way to better legal framework the use of the platform? If that is the case, what possible slopes do you see in order to arrive at such a legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u42	Mr Demon, the Commerce Information Network is an initiative of Comeos, which was recently introduced to myself and the services. I am certainly in favour of such structured partnerships between citizens, the self-employed, entrepreneurs and the police. This initiative, as there are others, fits in with the idea of better prevention than cure. Prevention is a shared responsibility and is not just the responsibility of police and government. Everyone must assume their responsibilities, preferably in partnership, of course, as in this initiative. A recent study on the BIN operation showed that such partnership could be a means for the police to strengthen their links with citizens and entrepreneurs, in particular to create greater confidence in the functioning of the police and to improve communication lines between citizens and police. In addition, it allows the police to act more effectively, based on very specific information obtained. With regard to your request to create a legal framework for this specific platform COMIN, I refer, as for other such partnerships, to the need to comply with existing regulations, including the GDPR, integrated police legislation, private security regulations and so on. I therefore believe that we should not provide a separate or separate legal framework for each initiative. However, I have asked my services to look at and, if necessary, expand the BIN letter so that such supralocal initiatives could also be registered in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u43	Madam Minister, the BIN circular should make it clear to all police areas in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels that they can use COMIN. Can you keep me informed when this letter is sent?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u44	Madam Minister, the distribution centres of the supermarkets in our country have long been called upon to be recognised as critical infrastructure. The distribution centres are a crucial link in the food supply in our country. Previous blockades of the centres have already demonstrated their potential impact on food supply across the country. In addition, recognition as a critical infrastructure also has important consequences for, for example, the switch-off plan in the event of a power shortage, but also for the possibility of using the federal police in protests or blockades of the centres. Critical infrastructure is defined in the law of 1 July 2011 on security and protection as an installation, system or part of it, of federal importance, which is essential for the maintenance of vital social functions, health, safety, security, economic prosperity or social well-being, and whose disruption of operation or destruction would have a significant impact because those functions would be disrupted. I also believe that distribution centres of supermarkets can meet this definition. Nevertheless, they have not yet been recognised by law as critical infrastructure. Madam Minister, what is your position on the question of recognising the distribution centres of supermarkets as critical infrastructure? If you are in favour of this, are you prepared to take the necessary legislative and other steps and within what timeframe do you intend to take such steps? If you were against this, what are your main objections to the recognition of supermarket distribution centres as critical infrastructure? Are you prepared to consult with the sector concerned and the other relevant actors on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u45	Mr Demon, today the food distribution sector is not defined by either the European or the Belgian legislative framework as a sector in which critical infrastructures can be identified. Similarly, the proposal for a future Directive on the resilience of critical entities, aimed at extending the scope of critical sectors at European level, does not regard this sector as a critical sector. An evaluation of the Directive by the European Commission is planned seven and a half years after its entry into force. The first version of the text provided for an examination of the relevance of the inclusion of this sector as a critical sector. The latest version, which is the result of discussions between the Member States and the EU bodies on 20 December, no longer suggests this. Furthermore, the availability of sufficient alternatives as well as the national risk analysis and threat context in our country illustrate that there is currently no need to extend the sectoral scope of this legislation to the food sector or, for example, food distribution centres. On the basis of these elements, the crisis centre currently sees no reason to deviate from the European vision and therefore not to include the food sector as a critical sector in national legislation. That does not mean, let me make it clear that the importance of food supplies should not be confirmed. In particular, food security in emergency and crisis situations is crucial. This is why alternative pistes are being studied within the Crisis Centre with regard to food supply in the context of overall crisis management.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u46	Of course, it would be a naughty question to give me those alternative slopes. I think we can leave it to the Crisis Center itself to work it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u47	Mr President, Minister, I recently asked you a written question on legal aid granted under Article 52 (3) of the WPA to the staff of the federal police who are victims of violence. The figures I requested from you showed that legal aid was already granted to 70 staff in 2021. This is the highest figure since 2016. It'll just be numbers from our federal police. I hear from people on the ground that there is still too little use of free legal assistance. I have a few questions about that. What explanation do you see for the fact that the number of applications for legal aid in 2021 has been at the highest level in the federal police since 2016? Has the procedure gained publicity, or have more staff been victims of violence? Do you consider that the possibility of obtaining free legal aid is sufficiently known to the agents on the premises, and in the local police areas in particular? What are the ways in which local zoning chiefs are reminded of this possibility? Are you willing, if possible, to take steps to increase awareness?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u48	Mr President, Mr Demon, we have often said that violence is unacceptable, especially against the police and medical services. This must therefore be dealt with correctly and firmly. I have stressed it several times in Parliament, including in the context of the discussion of my policy paper. In this context, I would also refer to my commitment to bourgeois elections as an employer of the staff of the federal police. Many initiatives have already been taken in this area to provide detailed information and legal and administrative support, including free legal aid, both to the staff themselves who are victims of violence, but also to the staff responsible. These are the following initiatives. There is a redirection letter, GPI72 of 8 February 2013, concerning legal aid to police officers who are victims of violence and false complaints. In addition, there is the manual Disputes and Legal Protection, Civil Liability, Free Legal Aid, Business Damage and Damages, which explains the right to free legal assistance and also explains the administrative procedure to be followed. There is also an explanation on the Wikipol web page on violence against members of the police forces for staff who have been victims of violence. Further training is then provided for violence against police officers. One of the elements of this training is the legal framework, which explains the legislation and the procedure to be followed with regard to free legal assistance. Finally, I am now preparing, together with my colleague in the Justice Department and in consultation with the trade union partners, a new letter explaining the various aspects of the comprehensive approach to violence against the police. Free legal assistance is also described in detail in this context. In my view, the general increase in attention to the problem, as well as the above-mentioned measures, can help to ensure that staff affected by acts of violence are fully aware of their right to free legal aid, which is undoubtedly reflected in an increase in the number of applications. As regards the number of cases of violence against members of the police forces, I refer to the answer to your parliamentary question No. 994 of 10 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u49	The answer is clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u50	Madam Minister, my group has already had the opportunity to ask you several times, in committee and in plenary, both about the future PNS and the means of the judicial police. This future plan sets out several priorities. However, the College of Attorneys General warns that resources are insufficient to deal with them in depth. According to De Tijd newspaper, in the current situation, prosecutors will have to "continue to make choices between the priorities set". In a letter sent on 13 December to your colleague in the Department of Justice, the Attorney General denounces the fact that the new national security plan contains "no formal commitment on the budgets and resources needed to manage the priorities". They also criticise the persistent problem of the lack of a separate budget for the Federal Judicial Police, which is provided for by law. While the national security plan is still under development and the comments of the Attorney General will be taken into account by the Minister of Justice, I would like to ask you the following questions. In the context of the discussions and the future adoption of the NSP, what budgetary and human resources will be committed to ensure that these priorities are properly resourced? How will you respond to the well-founded remarks made by the prosecutors general, particularly with regard to the separate budget for the judicial police? In your general policy note, you talk about 60 additional new specialist collaborators per year, but without specifying their fields. It is essential to strengthen all central services, most of which are understaffed. Can you now provide me with more information on the means allocated in 2022, in consultation with the Minister of Justice, to strengthen the PJ?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u51	Collègue Thiébaut, the quotas for the year 2022 have not yet been fixed definitively. The objective is again to recruit at least 1,600 inspectors for the integrated police and 60 senior specialized inspectors for the Federal Judicial Police. In addition to external recruitment, the number of staff in the PJF can also increase through internal staff mobility. These mobilitys are open during the year. I would like to recall that, since 2019, the capacity of the PJF has increased again. Capacity is at 2007 level with 4,300 people. As I mentioned in my reply to Mr Metsu on 15 December, the national security plan, such as the comprehensive security briefing note, has never been linked to a budget or a budget plan of its own. The implementation of the SNP is entirely based on the funding mechanisms for the functioning of the existing integrated police. However, the budget is not unlimited. As a result, there is a strategic choice mechanism through which planned needs and projects are discussed and validated according to predetermined criteria within the strategic coordination bodies, in particular the Federal Police Steering Committee and the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. Section 114 of the Integrated Police Act provides for basic allocations for the Federal Judicial Police, which are grouped into an organic division of the general expenditure budget. Pursuant to this article of the Act, the specific appropriations of the Federal Judicial Police are, in fact, included separately in Section 17, Organic Division 42 and relate to both personnel, investment and operating budgets. In addition, some FJP needs common to the federal police and by extension to the integrated police are met by other common appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but given the importance of fighting organised crime and tax fraud, it really needs to be a priority. We need to be clear about the human and budgetary means. I still invite you to be more specific about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u53	Question No 55023438C by Mr Josy Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u54	Madam Minister, this year there were not only riots in Brussels, but also in Ghent and Antwerp. For my question, I confined myself to the facts in Brussels. Perhaps Mrs Goethals will ask some more general questions. According to the spokesperson of the Brussels-Capital Police Zone, the police forces of the Brussels-Capital Region arrested 150 people during New Year's Eve. The fire department had to intervene 12 times for burning vehicles, mainly in the police zones Brussels-South and Brussels-West. The Department for Fire Control and Urgent Medical Assistance of the Brussels-Capital Region received 72 calls for burning city furniture, mainly burning garbage cans. The ambulance had to pull out 120 times. The STIB mainly involves damage to buses, trams and bus booths. The figures do not look good again this year. Madam Minister, can you confirm the figures on the number of interventions and arrested persons or were they still updated? How many CVs were drafted and for what criminal offences? Was there violence against emergency and order services? If so, how many? Has an estimate been made of the cost of the destruction? Who's gonna pay for the costs? How was public enforcement in Brussels evaluated on New Year's Eve? Will the unit of command between the different Brussels police zones be implemented at other times?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u55	Madam Secretary, first of all, my best wishes for the new year. Unfortunately, the new year has started again with some unrest in our cities, as Mr Depoostere said. That gives me the feeling that year after year I can read you a new year's letter. We usually do that with good intentions, but the letter today has a negative taste. During the transition from old to new, mainly Antwerp and Brussels were confronted with arson and destruction. For the third time in a row, the six Brussels police zones worked under a unit of command on New Year's Eve with the aim of being more targeted. My party fully supports such forms of cooperation and we hope that the end point will be a merger of police zones. Madam Secretary, how many administrative and judicial arrests have been made? How many P.V.'s were drawn up? What contribution did the Task Force set up contribute to this? Was there also substantial violence against emergency and order services this year? My main question is how the unit of command was evaluated through last year's multidisciplinary crisis centre. You said at the time there would be an evaluation. What conclusions or action plans have emerged from this and have they been implemented in order to improve cooperation? Have they also helped to simplify enforcement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u56	As I have said before, I naturally understand the desire to celebrate the start of a new year together, but I cannot, of course, understand anyone who uses violence, causes destruction and thus causes damage to fellow citizens and infrastructure. The figures were confirmed by the six police zones of the Brussels-Capital Region. The pvs for criminal offences were mainly designed for damage, vandalism, arson and the use of pyrotechnic material. A number of cases of rebellion were also noted, but fortunately no policemen were seriously injured. Unfortunately, this year police vehicles and vehicles from other emergency services were damaged by projectiles. For all the facts, the investigations are still ongoing, including on the basis of an analysis of the available footage. Based on what we know today, STIB would have suffered the most damage. The integrated chain of command, to which you refer, Mrs Goethals, has been positive and has helped to keep the number of incidents manageable. Optimum and coordinated use of available resources and available staff has enabled rapid and efficient action to be taken. As you said yourself, the structure has proved its worth on several occasions, as recently, during the demonstration against the corona measures of Sunday 9 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u57	Thank you for your answer. We will, of course, have to wait for the ongoing investigations. However, I am counting on the governments not only to put themselves in bourgeois hands with injured officials, police officers or firefighters, but also for the many cases of damage to public furniture, which we have unfortunately had to record. Madam Minister, it is certainly not the intention to call the events a failure, because only 12 vehicles have been set on fire this year. It's not a failure divers. It'll just be your car set on fire. We must therefore put an end to such facts. In the meantime, everyone agrees that cooperation between police areas in Brussels is a good thing. The unit of command is indeed paying off. We now see that the phenomenon extends to cities such as Antwerp, Ghent, Liège or to the coast. I hope that we can learn from the best practices in Brussels and integrate them into other police areas in Flanders and Wallonia. It has been said several times, but we believe that such facts can only be stopped by cooperation between your department and that of the Minister of Justice. We must continue to fight them very hard. I'm afraid it can't just be about sending letters. We need more action than words.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u58	It is true that the approach of these unified commands proves that it is good work. Several mayors have mentioned this in the past. They were convinced that there is an effective capacity gain that can be deployed to the near police. It is a discussion that we had last year, but you said that there was nothing to be found in your coalition agreement and so you did not expect any steps towards merging the Brussels police zones. However, it is a coincidence that your predecessor and party colleague, Mr De Crem, has taken clear positions in response to these recurring New Year's riots. He had a different and clearer point of view than you. I hope that such cooperation will be more and more possible and, as Mr Depoogere said, not only in Brussels but also in the other cities, so that everyone is convinced of the opportunities offered by a unified Brussels police zone and command structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Bury's 55023694C is converted into a written question. Mr Vandenput is currently unable to attend and is asking for his question. 55023747C a little later. We'll see if that's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, in view of the scale of the disaster in mid-July, many municipalities have had no choice but to use the requisition mechanism, as defined in the Act of 15 May 2007, in order to respond to a whole series of emergencies. You have decided that the costs thus incurred will be borne by the Inland FPS for all missions carried out before 31 August, provided that they have been validated by the Governor. It appears, however, that the costs of work started before 31 August but not completed on that date will not be covered, nor will they even be covered by requisitions actually completed at the end of August but subsequently invoiced. This creates situations that are sometimes surreal. I will take only one example: the commune of Theux had to make a requisition in order to create a pertuis passing under the center of the locality. This decision certainly met an urgent need since maintaining the pertuis could have led to flooding. However, the Inland FPS will not intervene, as this project necessarily took some time, thus exceeding the fateful day of 31 August. Several mayors expressed their incomprehension on this point. It seems that they were initially told that these costs would be covered at the federal level. Given the impact of the floods on communal finances, this change of course is not without consequences and raises legitimate concern on the ground. Very concretely, it also puts in difficulty several companies and SMEs in disaster-stricken regions which, at the moment, are waiting for a payment that does not come. Minister, do you intend to reconsider this rule? Will the Inland FPS intervene for all requisitions initiated before August 31 and for those subsequently invoiced?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u61	Mr President, honourable Member, the nature of the requisition is subsidiary. Since this is a significant infringement of fundamental rights, requisitioning must remain an exceptional means which can only be used in the absence of any other existing means. In addition, the Authority may use this procedure only in the event of an absolute need for the public interest and in the absence of any other means appropriate to its availability within a relevant period of time. Pursuant to article 181 of the Civil Security Act, the claimant pays or compensates. However, since the requisition is part of the tasks of the competent authority during strategic coordination in the event of a crisis, the federal authority assumes the requisitions made during the federal phase, when the local authority acts as a deconcentrated body of the federal authority, as the delegate of the minister. This is the case with the governor at all times, but not with the communes. In the context of the July floods, the emergency, absolute necessity, public interest and the absence of another appropriate means in a timely manner could be justified until the end of July, especially since the federal phase had already been completed on 26 July. However, I have made an additional effort to extend this possibility until the end of August, in order to allow the various affected municipalities to organize themselves. The longer the time passes, the more difficult the urgency becomes to justify. The requisitions carried out for an additional month after the federal phase – until 31 August – are taken over by the Interior FPS, provided they have been carried out by the governor or by the communes and validated by the governor. Whatever the date of the requisition or the duration of the performance, the requisition – and therefore the performance under requisition – must end on August 31, 2021. Beyond that date, the benefit may continue, but it will no longer be covered by the Inland FPS. This has been communicated several times to governors and mayors. By the end of 2021, we paid all the invoices validated by the governors and in order. There are invoices for which the file is not in order. In this case, either clarification has been sought, or the Governor's services must complete the requisitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u62	Minister, thank you for your many clarifications. To give just a few figures to measure the impact on the finances of the municipalities, I take the example for the city of Limburg: of the EUR 5.3 million in extraordinary budget, 3 million is earmarked for the reconstruction of roads and public buildings, plus losses in taxes on natural persons and municipal taxes on industrial, commercial and agricultural enterprises, such as the Corman butter factory, which has been heavily affected. For the municipality of Esneux, the extraordinary budget has doubled – from 4 million to 8 million – in order to complete the repairs. In Theux, €7.5 million is provided for the extraordinary budget in a municipality where the usual amount is just under €16 million. Aid for requisitions is naturally highly appreciated in these municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u63	Minister, when you presented your general policy note last November, you renewed your intention to effectively combat domestic violence. To do this, you indicate the development of a new project aimed at providing financial impetus to fifteen innovative local projects still to be selected by your services. As a mayor myself, of course, I welcome the initiative which should enable several municipalities to improve their means of combating this type of violence, this fight which must be a priority when several femicides have once again marked our country in recent weeks. Minister, I want to ask you a few questions to learn more about the selection process. When you talk about "local projects", does this only refer to a distinct entity? Could a group of small entities form in order to add more weight to their candidacy? What are the criteria that will allow you to decide which municipality will be selected for this financial assistance in the fight against this violence? You indicated that you released a total budget of 1.5 million euros. Given that this amount will be divided into fifteen separate projects over two years, are there other more structural initiatives planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u64	Through this project, we want to encourage collaboration between municipalities. Consequently, the Royal Decree determining the arrangements for granting a subsidy to municipalities under the "vulnerable groups" task force provided for cooperation between two minimum municipalities. To this end, municipalities can choose with which other communes they collaborate, within or outside their police area. It is of course desirable that they involve the police as a partner in working with the municipalities in their police area, but this choice belongs to them. In view of the fact that the impulse project advocates a multidisciplinary approach to the problem, it is also possible that a municipality may cooperate with an association within the framework of the project. But the project can only be submitted by the municipality and its contact person. There are two types of criteria for evaluating the projects introduced: admissibility criteria and content criteria. The projects will be analysed in two phases. First, the internal working group of DG Safety and Prevention will assess the admissibility of the projects introduced on the basis of the admissibility criteria laid down in Article 5 of the aforementioned Royal Decree. Secondly, eligible projects will be subject to the content analysis of an external steering committee which will evaluate them against the following criteria laid down in Article 7 of the Royal Decree. As you can see, one of the criteria concerns the sustainable anchoring within the municipalities. At the end of the project, a cross-cutting analysis and evaluation will be carried out. Projects that have received a positive evaluation will be communicated as an inspiration to other municipalities in the country. Furthermore, at the Belgian level, several departments are competent at different levels of power to prevent and combat gender-based violence, which also include domestic violence. This shared policy is reflected in the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence involving the Federal State, the Regions and the Communities. The new National Plan of Action 2021-2025 was adopted at the end of November 2021 and provides for more than 200 preventive, protective and prosecution measures to strengthen the fight against gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u65	I would like to thank the minister for the clarity of her structured response and say how important it is to set aside funds for such projects, as she does. Indeed, the successive confinements caused by the global pandemic have unfortunately highlighted the high frequency of such violence. Being stuck for weeks with his family or spouse has only intensified a phenomenon firmly rooted in our society. It is probably pointless to recall the shocking fact that Amnesty International and SOS Viol offered us in 2014 by announcing that almost one in four women was victims of sexual violence inflicted by their partner in Belgium. With regard to more recent figures, the University of Liège revealed at the beginning of 2021 (just a year ago) through a survey that 33% of respondents indicated that they had been subjected to physical and/or psychological violence during confinement. In 2020, an article in TV5World reported that reports of violence against children had climbed by almost 50% in Wallonia in 2020 with peaks at times of confinement. These figures tell us one thing: domestic violence is a subject that needs to be dealt with with with the utmost seriousness as it affects the whole of our population and society. We must give our police officers the means to fight this scourge. We can only congratulate and thank the Minister for her initiative in launching these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u66	Mr President, Minister, this Christmas vacation I read in the newspaper that you intend to have the taser....................................................................................................................................................... If motivation is given that the taser would provide extra protection for policemen and would also have a dissuasive effect. Now I also read that the police unions are less convinced and also fear that there is no legal framework when someone fails after a power surge. Because the use of a taser is not innocent and can have a fatal outcome, for example if someone is a heart patient. Also for people with symptoms of excited delirium the use of a taser can lead to injuries or even death. According to American research, the use of tasers is associated by the police with hundreds of deaths. The trade unions also point to the high cost of incorporating the steam discharge weapon into standard equipment. A pilot project is currently under way in 35 police areas and pilot projects have already been launched in the last parliamentary term. The intention is to evaluate these projects. I have a number of questions about this. Do you have any idea of interim results from ongoing pilot projects? Do you know how many times those tasers were used in the pilot projects and in what circumstances? In what way should such use be reported at this time? Is there a notification and if so, how does it work? When will the final evaluation of the pilot projects be completed? Do you have any idea the cost of those pilot projects? With regard to the correct use of the taser, under what conditions is its use appropriate? Under what circumstances is its use just not recommended? Do you think there are sufficient guarantees that police officers will use the taser correctly? What legal framework will apply if it ends wrongly? That too is a concern of the trade unions. Have you discussed this with the trade unions and what is your response to their concerns? Finally, as far as the overall cost is concerned, do you have any idea what it would cost us on an annual basis if we introduced the taser as standard police equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u67	Mr President, first of all, I too would like to express my best wishes to colleagues, the Minister and her cabinet. I wish you courage and perseverance, because there is a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the use of a stun gun can be considered when it is necessary to make a person immediately harmless and when other means, including firearms, are not appropriate. Following the encouraging results obtained during the test period, I extended the project to other police areas that are candidates for the pilot project, and I also extended it until 31 December 2022. Since the start of the test phase, 141 cases were recorded in which the pulse weapon was extracted, both to deter and to use effectively. Each shot with the taser is the subject of an extensive report, in order to be able to follow up. I also asked for the final opinion of the Armaments Committee before I could make a final decision on the generalised use of the power surge weapon. So we certainly don't go ice cream in one night. This is important with this kind of resources. There has been a standard training within the Integrated Police since 2009 for both the trainers and end-users of power surge weapons. Such training shall involve four possible cases of use of the weapon, in particular assignments of a unit of special assistance, intervention and support orders in the prison environment or in the cells, transfer of a prisoner with or at risk, and assignments to strengthen intervention services. The training in question has been regularly updated over the years on the basis of technical developments of the tool, but also on the basis of the knowledge of use acquired. The decisions taken in the evaluation reports of the pilot project show that the current training is sufficient to ensure the correct use and legitimate use of the tool. The power surge weapon will most likely be transferred to the category of collective armament. This means that it will not be allocated individually to each individual police officer. It follows that the training will not be given during the initial training. The aim is to offer this training as continuing training to police officers who are equipped with it for specific tasks, as described earlier. This principle also has an impact on costs, because not every member of the service or corps will have to buy a device. I can tell you that the average cost of the weapon is EUR 2,500 and that the cost of the charging station is around EUR 1,815. In addition, there are, of course, the costs of ammunition, training equipment and so on. As far as the legal framework is concerned, in my capacity as the competent authority in the field of special arms, I have set out in a restrictive manner in my authorization the tasks whereby police officers are authorized to carry the taser for its execution. In this authorization, which is expressly given, I would like to point out that whatever the task to be carried out, the use of the taser is only possible through the existence of a legitimate reason and, of course, also provided that all the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and also opportunity are respected. This also applies to all other means of violence. The availability of a power surge weapon will also result in multiple options or possibilities for intervention. It will thus generate an additional option in the escalating and de-escalating use of violence and may, if available, avoid the use of firearms. You, too, rightly point to the risk of taser use in certain categories of individuals, such as heart patients. However, the use of the taser in violent situations is intended as an alternative to a firearm. You will agree with me that, in principle, a firearm presents a greater risk of serious and possibly even fatal injury, including for heart patients. They themselves have every interest in avoiding a violent confrontation with the police, like everyone else. The use of the power surge weapon shall be subject to the same legal framework as the use of the firearm. This clearly indicates that there will be a judicial investigation and/or administrative investigation, in each case combined with a reporting obligation. The reporting obligation shall apply to any incident involving acts of violence, whether or not using police weapons, intervention techniques or tactics. In addition, the possibility of initiating civil proceedings in the event of damage suffered remains unabated. I also opt for a transparent approach in the context of this project on power surge weapons. The VCLP regularly participates in the High Consultative Committee with the trade unions, taking into account, as far as possible, the opinions of the trade unions, including in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. If I have understood you correctly, the intention is to use the taser as an alternative to making someone immediately harmless. I think we really need to look at what is the best way to avoid violence and an escalation of violence. We certainly need to be aware of the potentially fatal outcome of using a taser. Perhaps the evaluation will also include whether the use of a taser is more easily accessible, in other words, whether police officers will use the taser more quickly, so that we just do not get de-escalation of violence. I'm very concerned about the possible fatal outcome after using a power surge weapon. We must be careful about this. In terms of figures, last year I had asked a written question about reporting shootings or security incidents, which also includes this. I noticed that tasers are not listed as separate category. It would not be bad to report this in the future, so that we can distinguish between using weapons, pepper spray and tasers. This will give us the best possible view of these means of violence. If I understand correctly, it is not the intention that every police officer should receive a taser by default, but certain categories of agents. We need to think carefully about who does and who doesn't. Training should also be given the necessary framework and should not be a one-off exercise, but should be repeated. It is also necessary to learn from and reflect on cases in which this was used, including in the context of integrity training. For example, the following questions may be addressed. Was this a good thing? What were the circumstances? What were the consequences of using the power surge weapon? You mentioned the cost per individual taser, but the cost picture is of course wider. What is the total cost of this? When we hear the sighs of police officers and trade unions, there is above all a great deal of need for means of pay. I hope you will also discuss this with the trade unions. As with other means of violence, you consider proportionality to be important and the same legal framework applies. It's a good thing the agent who uses the taser knows that at fatal outcome, this will be the subject of investigation. That also responds to the agent, as does the use of other acts of violence in the job. This cannot be done without taking appropriate precautions. I continue to follow this and have put forward a written question to obtain figures on tasers. So I'm hoping to get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u70	Madam Minister, I am an absolute supporter of the use of electric weapons, within a certain framework, of course. What you're saying is a bit unlike the press releases on this because not every police officer would get a gun like that. I understand what you're saying, but that doesn't quite match what's been made public. I also support Mrs Platteau's call for a distinction to be made in the use of weapons, so that we have a view on this, and for consultation with the trade unions for good frameworking, training, follow-up and legal support. However, I am certainly in favour of rolling out the use of power-bulb weapons as widely as possible, provided that they are properly framed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u71	Madam Secretary, you will find an objective ally in me to further pour the deployment of power shot weapons into a pilot project. I am also pleased that you have extended the duration of pilot projects to this year. I do wonder whether they are being extended to other police areas or whether they are being restricted to the same areas. Christiaan De Ridder, the Director of Intervention of the West Coast Police Zone, one of the pilot projects, thinks that the use of power surge weapons is a good idea. He calls it an alternative to a firearm, which also acts as a deterrent to violence. Perhaps that will reassure Mrs Platteau and Mrs Ingels. As far as legal protection is concerned, you have pointed out that this is the same regulation as it is for the use of firearms. Well, that could be reassuring, too. It is perhaps useful that Parliament should also take its share of the money. For example, our committee can organise some hearings on this subject, for example with the High Health Council. The year is still long and our agenda is wide, so I think we will find time to do so this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u72	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for this change of agenda and wish you and your cabinet all the best. You are in the process of preparing a reform of the Council of State which particularly affects the role of the Auditorate at the level of the Litigation Section. Given the importance of the highest administrative jurisdiction in the protection of the rule of law, as we have seen recently, it is essential that all stakeholders, in particular lawyers and judges of the Council of State (counsel and auditorate), be consulted in a timely manner. However, an appeal signed by more than 120 lawyers specializing in public law, including 8 batonsniers and the president of Avocats.be, published in the press at the end of December, shows that the request for consultation addressed to you by French-speaking lawyers has been rejected. By refusing this consultation at a stage in the decision-making process where it can still be useful, you will deprive yourself of a vision of this problem and thus advance on the basis of a truncated view of the file. This is all the more important given that administrative litigation has evolved differently in the three regions of the country and that this has implications for the work of the Council of State. As the appeal published in the press rightly recalls: "A reform of the Council of State is a reform of the rule of law, as this high court is a bulwark against the excesses and misuses of power committed by governments and administrative authorities." It is therefore not a technical dossier but an eminently political one in the noblest sense of the term, on which we are and will be particularly vigilant. Minister, what is the status of the reform of the Council of State? How do you intend to involve all the actors in the field, in particular the lawyers of the two linguistic roles, in this project? What consultations have you conducted so far? What consultations do you intend to carry out in the future? In what form? According to what timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u73	Mr President, first of all, my best wishes to you, to the Minister, and to all colleagues and staff of Parliament. As soon as the context has been brilliantly recalled by my colleague Mrs Matz, and my questions come back to her, I will refer to the written text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u74	Minister, as has been said, the Council of State is an essential pillar of our rule of law. This court is the natural controller of the legality of executive decisions in its broadest sense. An effective Council of State is therefore essential to ensure the protection of citizens' rights. In your general policy note, you therefore announced an increase in staff appropriations for this institution and a reform of the procedures of the Section for Legislation and the Section for Litigation. In view of these objectives, the budget for 2022 must necessarily be aimed at strengthening both the legislative section and the administrative litigation section. This last section needs to be strengthened in the face of a steady increase in the number of incoming cases, particularly for French-speaking magistrates who have to deal with more than 60% of the new cases before the Council of State, as revealed in the institution's activity report for the judicial year 2019-2020. It appears that, among the reforms envisaged, there is a significant reduction in the role of the auditorate. This reduction is expected to result in a postponement of the workload on the judges of the seat. The same should apply to other aspects of the announced reforms, such as the administrative loop. In fact, 120 francophone lawyers did not fail to point out this in a carte blanche, asking to be consulted on the occasion of this reform. The lack of refinancing of the Litigation Section, together with the adoption of the proposed procedural reforms, would make it difficult to achieve the objective which you are pursuing and which is shared by all: the reduction of the processing time of cases before the Council of State. Can you indicate exactly which allocation will receive the increase in advertised personnel credits? Has the impact of the proposed procedural reforms on the litigation section's backlog been assessed? If so, what does this evaluation indicate? Do you intend to provide a solution – even a temporary one – to the fact that the workload is much greater for French-speaking rooms than for Dutch-speaking rooms, when they are equipped in the same way? Finally, has the impact of the stimulus plans on the number of appeals to the Council of State been assessed? If so, what does this evaluation indicate? In advance, Madam Minister, I thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u75	Mr Senesael, both the government agreement and the policy statement have expressed the ambition to shorten and optimize administrative disputes brought before the Council of State. The importance of rapid and high-quality procedures should not be underestimated. The applicants and the authorities thus obtain clarification more quickly – which is in favour of creating a climate of trust and legal certainty. Under my leadership, the federal government already approved in mid-April 2021 the Royal Decree amending the Law on Judicial Procedure of the Council of State, which introduced a written procedure more in line with the principles governing administrative disputes. In cases where the written procedure had already provided for everything, it was considered appropriate not to hold a hearing, at least if the judge and the parties agreed. This will increase the efficiency of the handling of administrative disputes and reduce costs for litigants. Furthermore, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers approved at the end of 2021 the concept note on optimising the advisory activity within the legislative section, as well as shortening and improving the handling of administrative disputes within the Council of State. This note is based in part on the Memorandum of Heads of Corps of the Council of State issued in July 2019 and was prepared after consultation with internal and external experts. The memorandum also provides for the maximum increase in staff. With regard to the Administrative Litigation Section, the note highlights, inter alia, the reform of the double examination, the active steering of the suspension procedure and the organization of a pre-trial review and the reintroduction of the administrative loop. It is obvious that these proposals shorten administrative disputes, as has been studied. As regards the legislation section, the aim is to transform the so-called "overrun" procedure into a more targeted management tool. It has long been necessary to increase the resources of the Council of State. At the time of last October's budgetary conclave, it was finally decided - at my request - to gradually increase staff appropriations by EUR 216 000 in 2022, by EUR 1 332 000 in 2023 and by EUR 2 million on a recurring basis from 2024. The Council's operating appropriations will also be increased by €450,000 in 2022 and 2023 in order to implement the digital platforms of the Administrative Litigation Section and the Legislation Section. The implementation of the appropriations obtained is currently being implemented in close consultation with the Council of State. The necessary steps are taken to further implement the concept note in consultation with the Council of State, also in accordance with the budgetary framework obtained. Of course, all relevant stakeholders will also be consulted and invited to give their views on the concrete proposals. The possible impact of recovery plans will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I confess I didn't hear you right. We were obviously talking about the reform that you are conducting and the current consultation of the actors. You say they will be consulted, but on what timing? I would like to know that, since political options are already being taken, now, on a number of points. It is therefore completely aberrant to do so later. We're just going to give them a "key on the door" and they won't be able to answer all the questions that this bill is likely to raise. So I find you quite discreet about this issue and the content. In any case, I think it is necessary to take into account a disparity between North and South in this matter. Seeing a reform of the Council of State only through the bezel of the Dutch-speaking section with, as you know, many administrative courts at first instance, on your part, is not the overall vision or the one that serves the general interest. I do not understand why all the players are not, at this stage, also at the table to help you develop effective legislation that makes things faster. Under the pretext of the concepts of efficiency and speed, a number of principles, which are also founding elements of the rule of law, should not be swept away.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I am glad that we were able to have this debate today, since I had sent you a letter for explanations following the White Card of the Bars, dated 20 December, and to date I have still not received an answer. This clearly shows the fundamental role of our Parliament, particularly with regard to the balance of powers. I understand that an increase in the resources allocated to the Council of State has been decided by your Government. I welcome this, of course, but it cannot in any way be a tree here that would hide the forest, that is to say, better passing the pill of a project that would seek to distort the essential function of the Council of State in a state governed by the rule of law. I understand that the objective of your reform is to optimize and shorten disputes. This is, of course, a very commendable objective; but this cannot in any way be done at the expense of the role of the auditorate, and also of the opinions of the various bars on this subject. You seem to say that you are fully open to consultation and that the actors will be invited to give their opinion. I do ask myself the question of when, since it is precisely the lack of consultation that has been denounced by this famous carte blanche. I think it is important for them to be consulted from the outset, not downstream, by putting them in front of the fait accompli. Finally, with regard to the reform of the legislative section of the Council of State, I mean that you intend to move towards a more targeted management tool. This seems to me to be very vague and I am concerned, especially when we see how valuable the opinions of this section of legislation are to our parliamentary work, and in particular to this health crisis. We have seen with the latest opinion on the closure of the cultural sector how valuable their opinions are.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is essential to carry out this reform taking into account all the parameters mentioned in my question, otherwise the first victim of this situation will be the citizen, the justiciable, and in particular francophone. You have been quite discreet about this, but the French-speaking citizen will have to deal with longer periods of treatment. Of course, the public authorities are also affected by the length of the processing of cases by the Council of State, and they will be affected all the more by the fact that the stimulus plans announced by all the partners of the Federal State should bring their batch of additional appeals to the administrative court. It is therefore a matter that we are also very close to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 55023782C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u80	Minister, violence against LGBTQI+ people still exists in our country. Combating them must be a priority, as must combating all sexual violence and discrimination. Last March, Çavaria reported that, in reality, and as unfortunately sexual crimes in general, few homophobic, lesbian or transphobic violence go back to the police. One of the reasons put forward by Çavaria is directly aimed at taking care of victims by the police. In order to address this issue, the LGBTQI+ rights dome advocates that the police receive specific training on gender and gender identity. Action on police training and the reception of victims therefore seems essential. When I asked you last October about the reception of LGBTQI+ victims of sexual violence, you replied that no specific training was currently provided to our police officers but that basic training allowed them to manage this type of situation. However, initiatives already exist. For example, the Brussels-Ixelles police area has set up a system to encourage victims or witnesses of homophobic violence, lesbians or transphobes to report them to the police via a dedicated alert button on its website. Minister, are new initiatives planned in 2022 to combat violence against LGBTQI+, including through the basic and ongoing training of police officers with particular attention to the reception of victims and the filing of complaints? In connection with your colleague in charge of Equal Opportunities, but also with the federated entities, are any initiatives envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u81	Mr Senesael, in addition to the attention given to this issue in basic training, we can note, as far as the officers in office are concerned, that the subject is also the subject of significant attention by the organisation of several trainings and information sessions. First of all, several ongoing training courses, although not specifically and exclusively on the theme of homophobia, raise awareness among police officers and develop their skills in this area. The LGBTQI+ approach is addressed by the lecturers. These include the training courses "Home for victims of sexual violence" and "Inspector Mors". Four new sessions are planned in 2022. Special emphasis is also placed on the principle of non-discrimination in ethics training. In addition, police areas are taking concrete action to accommodate victims of physical and sexual violence against LGBTQI+ people. For example, the Antwerp Police Area offers a full thematic day dedicated to this group. This training day is part of a four-day training course, which provides the operational environment and CALOG staff with a better insight into the subject. In addition, the federal police comply with the guidelines of COL 13/2013 on research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes. Reference officers have been designated and trained in the front line services of the federal police. Recently, in December 2021, new federal police reference officers, replacing their party colleagues, were trained. The Federal Police Diversity Unit is also part of the COL 13/2013 working group accompanying the circular. Within this working group, a sub-working group is working to optimize the recording of these facts. Finally, the action of the ASBL Rainbow Cops Belgium must be highlighted. This association provides a remarkable contribution to the organization of training or information and awareness sessions for police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u82	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to express sincere and warm thanks to you for the quality of your response, which goes much further than the information that was retained last October. We can be pleased with the various initiatives that are being taken. I'll take two. In particular, there are training days at the level of the province of Antwerp. There are also new federal police reference officers who were hired last December. Of course, all this goes in the right direction. I could add another initiative that has been taken by my colleague, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou, which deals with various projects in this area. For example, actions have enabled the Brussels Region to acquire three shelters for LGBTQI victims; this is a route that could also be exploited at the federal level. Minister, it is important that every citizen, regardless of gender, gender, etc. is accepted under optimal conditions when filing a complaint. Exercise is often difficult when physical or sexual abuse has occurred. And poor management can be experienced as a second assault. In addition, the hashtag DoublePeine pulls on social networks and affects many people who have lost faith in the police, as a result of poor care. As for me, I have faith in her, I do not agree with the idea that she is not welcoming to these victims. Such a situation cannot, of course, be accepted in our society. In doing so, all you will do to ensure that the police are reception and monitoring agents of this violence will be a plus to the image of the police. I thank you for your actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u83	Minister, in turn, I wish you my best wishes for this year 2022. The year 2022 started badly for a young student of Moroccan origin since she was held in a closed centre after hours of interrogation at Charleroi airport. The airport police officer found that the conditions of stay of the young woman were not fulfilled. However, her visa was in order, she had the necessary money and a financial guarantor in Belgium. However, the agent transmitted elements (invented according to the young woman) to the Aliens Office, which then decided on his arrest. Minister, do officers systematically carry out this kind of control? How do police officers feel that the conditions for access to the territory are met or not? What is the margin of appreciation left to public servants? When is the data transmitted to the Aliens Office? Even more worrying are other elements of this interrogation that the young woman reported to me (having met with her) and which lead me to a new series of questions. She claims to have been repeatedly refused to drink water. Is that allowed? After several hours, while she is finally allowed to make a call, the airport police demand that she speak with her uncle in French and not in Arabic, her mother tongue, so that the agents can understand. Is this the procedure? A policeman would have said to the young woman, "I've got a carie, if you want, we can fix it." Do you find this kind of humor opportune given the circumstances? The border police reportedly proposed an agreement to the dentistry student, meaning that in exchange for the signature of a paper (which she was not allowed to read) she would be expelled the next day instead of being placed in a closed centre. Is this the usual procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u84	It is the responsibility of the Office of Foreigners to make a decision on the fate of a person intercepted at the border. Depending on the report prepared by the Federal Police, a decision on access to the territory or refoulement is made. This aspect of the issue is not my responsibility but that of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. So I will not rule on individual cases. In general, I can tell you that the person who comes to border control must have valid documents to enter Schengen territory and means of subsistence. On the basis of the evidence in their possession and following the procedure determined by the competent authority, the members of the aeronautical police prepare a report which is transmitted to the Aliens Office. This procedure and the various questions posed by the members of the aviation police are provided for in the Schengen Border Control Manual, which is common to all border controllers in the Schengen area. With regard to the comments made by the members of the aviation police you are echoing, this is the version of the person concerned. The necessary steps are taken to clarify the information you set out in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u85	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, a whole part of this case is an individual case, but it raises structural questions which will of course be asked to your colleague Mr Mahdi. But I think, if I may allow myself and although I am new in politics, that the role of a minister is both the proper functioning of his services and the confidence of citizens in them. However, stories like this young student's have been repeated for weeks and months. I remind you of the case of Junior Masudi, the case of Yves, that of a 63-year-old Nepali woman who spent ten days in a closed centre. I agree that one aspect concerns Mr Mahdi, but the issue of airport police has already been the subject of several inquiries in our committee. The question of the proper functioning of this police force has already been the subject of several of our work. Here, I believe that there is some subjectivity in the assessment of a police officer with respect to a file that is completed or not. Why was this young woman, who made this journey fifteen times without having any problems, under the same conditions, never bored, stopped or even less locked up eleven days in a closed centre? Why was it this time? Did not the other fourteen officers do their job well? Or is there obviously a problem? There will be a personal component initiated by this young woman. Proceedings will be initiated, I think, particularly with regard to the P Committee. As politicians, we too can refer the matter to Committee P, but I believe that there is a clarification on this question of the student's right of entry, which spends entire days there, with the psychological consequences that this may have on the continuation of their academic career or the continuation of their lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u86	Madam Secretary, I hope, and with me many others, that the new corona variant may cause the more sickening delta variant to be replaced. We may end up in an absenteeism crisis rather than in a real hospital crisis. I also heard your colleague Minister Vandenbroucke last Sunday in the seventh day tell a number of things about business continuity planning in certain critical sectors. So that is what my questions are about. I know that the Crisis Centre has been working on this for a while, because even at the time of the Mexican flu there were a lot of absenteeism plans. Think of guards, in whom absenteeism could have serious consequences for the prison system. There was even a scenario on the table to open the prisons. That's why I wanted to hear what plans you're working on right now. Which sectors are now being looked at in the light of absenteeism? Think, for example, of trains that are no longer able to drive because there are no drivers, garbage that can no longer be picked up and the like. How does the Crisis Center work around there? Specifically as far as your own services are concerned, how do you deal with it within the Home Office, within the police forces and the fire department? What about the plans and are there certain services where there are already problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u87	As far as the various plans are concerned, there is first and foremost the food security plan. We discussed this earlier, not by the National Crisis Centre itself, but by the Socio-Economic Cell (ECOSOC) chaired by the FPS Economy. On 19 March 2020, almost two years ago, the Federal Coordination Committee, within the framework of the federal phase ECOSOC, commissioned an emergency food supply plan to be drawn up by 30 March of that year. The result of this work was an overview of the identified partners in the food chain, the identified risks and the measures that had already been taken and should still be taken during the pandemic. Of course, this plan remains crucial during the other food supply emergencies and is also being followed up by the Crisis Centre. As part of its role in coordinating policy on security and protection of critical infrastructures, the Crisis Centre has also been engaged in contacts since March 2020 to monitor closely the operation of the critical infrastructures identified in Belgium. Of course, this also happened within the context of the pandemic. This monitoring focuses on the degree of absenteeism in critical infrastructures and on the ability to guarantee their essential services to society. Moreover, I can confirm that the last few days and weeks have also looked at the plans from that perspective. There was and is still a risk of a possible large number of absent workers in the coming weeks. At the end of last week, the Crisis Centre sent a rapid warning to the operators of critical infrastructures and to the authorities involved in the sector. At the beginning of this week, a meeting was held with sectoral authorities responsible for critical infrastructures, stressing once again the need for well-functioning business continuity plans. The Crisis Centre has also activated the Departmental Crisis Cells of the Federal Public Administrations Economy and Employment with the demand to monitor in the different sectors of the business world and also to continue to look at the situation of the chain approach. The departmental crisis cells have consulted with the various sector federations, trade union organisations and administrations and are working on monitoring to keep a current picture of the situation. In addition, they have developed a proposal for socio-economic measures. Furthermore, the governors were asked to update and, where necessary, activate their own business continuity plan. The governors were asked to encourage local authorities and intervention services to do the same and, where appropriate, to take preventive measures to ensure continuity. This is part of their mission, by the way. For additional support in residential care centres, hospitals and so on, the national logistics hub is still activated in case additional personnel, especially non-medical personnel, need to be deployed. At the beginning of this week, a meeting was also held with the College of Presidents of the FPS, PODs, parastatales and institutions of public benefit, in the presence of the Crisis Centre, on the continuity of federal government services. During these meetings, the Crisis Centre once again asked to update the business continuity plans and, where necessary, to activate them. The police have also taken the necessary measures to ensure its effectiveness and the realization of its most critical or essential tasks. To this end, the various entities of the integrated police have developed and/or updated the necessary continuity plans. In addition, the Integrated Police Task Force COVID-19 keeps its finger on the pulse. To this end, an internal contact centre was set up in 2020 to record positive covid cases and quarantine within the integrated police, so that action can be taken as soon as possible. With regard to your last question, which is of a more quantitative nature, I would like to ask you to put it in writing so that I can answer you in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u88	Madam Minister, it certainly reassures me that the Crisis Centre is taking all kinds of initiatives. I'm relying on it, too. In a lot of cases, I read that Defense will intervene in prisons, in hospitals, in residential care centres, and then I think: Defence is of very good will, but it seems very unrealistic to me that Defense will be able to solve everything everywhere. I hope we don't all look at the DOD and think it'll all work out. I hope with you that we will be able to keep things fairly under control and that we will not have any major problems. If there are problems, we will really have to get back to our core tasks and ensure that we use the profiles needed to do so in the right place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u89	Mr President, Minister, I read that the Council of Ministers of 23 December 2021 had approved a royal decision to allocate EUR 8.188 million to the police areas. Which projects are supported? How is that amount distributed among the zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u90	Mr President, Mrs Ingels, on 29 June 2021, the Les Arches police zone filed an application for annulment with the Council of State against the Royal Decree of 2 April 2021, which grants a grant for 2021 to encourage certain initiatives in police areas. Since certain pleas in law in that action were found to be well founded, it was decided to adapt the KB in order to avoid the imposition of an obligation on police zones to repay the amounts already collected. The purpose of the donation is to cover certain additional costs caused by problems which could result in an overload and which could not be foreseen at the time of the reform of the police services and which were therefore not taken into account in the context of generic funding. The amount shall be distributed taking into account the share of each police area in the federal base, the increase in events of an international character in the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region and of the police zones with a penitentiary or equivalent institution and finally also with cross-border crime and scaling up. As far as the specific amounts of money are concerned, I propose that you address your question in writing to me, given the quantitative nature of your question. The dot was created by the previous government, in which your party provided the Minister of the Interior. The decision to grant the grant was discussed within the Multidisciplinary Commission for the financing and optimal scale of the local police, whose work we will continue this year in order to optimise the scale and financing of the local areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u91	Madam Secretary, I will ask for the rest in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u92	Mr President, fireworks are a good ending. Madam Secretary, New Year is already accompanied by fireworks. All the mayors, including my colleague from the city of Herk next to me, will confirm that. It's a tradition, but it's a bad one. At the end of the year my mailbox is full of messages, it's the same song every year. Fireworks are free for sale, the trade in them is free. People turn it off at home and that causes the necessary suffering in animals. In my city, a horse fell very unlucky in an escape attempt, after which it had to be finished. It's a vicious circle as long as one can buy free fireworks. In my city there is a ban on fireworks, but keep it! It is part of the GAS regulations but the police have to mop up with the crane open. A number of initiatives have already been taken in the European Union. The Flemish Minister for Animal Welfare, Mr Weyts, has already taken initiatives. There has been a ruling on this from the Constitutional Court, which has flagged it back. There is no doubt that it is up to the federal government to act on this issue. In consultation with my colleagues, I note that there is a great deal of displeasure among the mayors of Limburg. The Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities has called for clear regulations and has advocated a ban on the sale of fireworks. Limburg is a border region and we see that Dutch people who cannot buy fireworks in their own country not only come shopping in Antwerp, but also join us in Lanaken or Maaseik to buy fireworks, which is still possible with us. I am normally in favour of free trade, but this should be coordinated. Madam Minister, perhaps this is a cross-border issue and the Minister for Economic Affairs has something to say about it, but what is your position on the issue? Has this been discussed in the federal government? Will you take action at European level or at Benelux level? Has it been dealt with there yet? Of course, it doesn't make much sense to do this in one country and in another. This requires a coordinated approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u93	Madam Minister, Mr Dewael has already raised the issue in detail and I can only agree with him. I have the feeling, when I have to put it briefly, that the cat is put in the milk but cannot drink from it. You can buy and sell. One may look at the box but one cannot light the fireworks unless the mayor gives permission. That situation needs to be contained. Madam Secretary, what is your position on additional regulation of the use and sale of fireworks? Are you prepared to take new legislative steps? What method do you have in mind? What obstacles may still need to be overcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u94	Madam Minister, thank you for answering this question. Mr Dewael, as a fellow mayor, you have outlined the situation well. I can almost take poison that in the last few weeks before the end of the year a lot of people are beginning to contact me. Most of the time, it's people who are very angry about the fireworks. Others ask if fireworks can still be fired. This brings with it a certain nervousness, especially in people who have animals or are animal lovers. The situation has many consequences. Three years ago I myself woke up the morning of January 1st by an ostrich in my garden, who had escaped a few kilometers away. So the firing of fireworks does have consequences. Although there is a firework ban in many surrounding municipalities, that is not the case in my police area. In my police zone LRH, a rather large zone in Limburg with among others Hasselt, Zonhoven, Diepenbeek, Lummen and Halen, we do not, because our chief of police cannot maintain the fireworks ban. She states that in a short time between 11 a.m. and 01 a.m., it is best to fire fireworks. In this way it can more or less keep control. Otherwise, it's party all night. It is sufficiently proven that in municipalities where there is a ban on fireworks there is a lot of shooting. Madam Minister, the solution to tackle the problem is not with the local authorities. The problem is sufficiently outlined. A private individual can simply buy fireworks without much effort. How do you think the burden on the population can be adequately addressed? Do you really see a downward trend in sales to private individuals in recent years? Do you have a view on that sort of thing? I also have a European-style question. Are there opportunities for tackling the problem within Europe? What time limit are we talking about in this case? Finally, what tools do you have in the Department of Home Affairs to restrict the sale of fireworks to private individuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u95	Madam Secretary, don't do ostrich politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u96	From a legal point of view, I would point out that only a general ban on fireworks can be introduced by adopting a law. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 17 December 2020 clearly stated that imposing a possible ban on the use of fireworks falls within the competence of the federal legislator. As far as I am concerned, therefore, a parliamentary debate will have to take place in the Federal Parliament, on the basis of which a legal framework can be created. Given the lack of a legal framework at present, as Minister for the Interior, I do not have the power to issue a general ban on the use or sale of fireworks. In the context of the pandemic, it is possible to regulate, restrict or prohibit the sale and/or use of certain goods such as fireworks and services at KB Council, and exceptionally when it is extremely urgent in the case of MB. We have also considered this in the context of the preparation of the measures at the end of last year, but there must of course also be a justification for it, and that was not evident in the context of the circumstances at the time. In addition, in the context of maintaining public safety, fire safety and fire prevention, a municipality may include specific provisions in the municipal regulations on the use of fireworks, for example during New Year's Eve. The municipalities have the power to do so, on the basis of the general powers conferred on them by the new municipal law. Certain municipalities have also included in their municipal regulations that fireworks should not be turned off without permission from the mayor. Sometimes there is an exception there and it could be stipulated that fireworks can still be displayed within certain periods of time. It is, of course, up to the municipality to judge and decide. It can be enforced through municipal administrative sanctions. Consideration could also be given to restricting the sale of fireworks to private individuals. The initiative does not fall within my competence, but falls within the competence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. I certainly agree with today's speeches, we need to think clearly about this and take an initiative on this. Too much suffering is caused to humans and animals every year, but also too much damage to infrastructure. We can no longer justify that today. It would be appropriate to take an initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u97	Madam Secretary, I'm still a little hungry. What do we agree on? My question was about the trade in fireworks and not about its use, which is prohibited in many cities, with nuances, I understood from my colleague. Maintenance is mop-up with the tap open, so one has to tackle it at the source and ban trade. You say the jurisdiction is federal. That is what I said in my question, and the Constitutional Court was clear about that. I do not want a ping-pong between Economic Affairs and Home Affairs, there can be an initiative taken by the government, and that could be a draft that both ministers will introduce to Parliament. You say that there should be a debate in Parliament. We are working on that, that debate has started. I would like you to take this issue to the government first, consult with the Minister for Economic Affairs and see if a consensus can be found within the federal government to submit a draft. I would welcome that. Parliament can do that itself, but the reason for my question was to know if you are going to do so. I did not get a lot of answers to my question about the European level, but I think that both in the Benelux context and at the level of the European Union it is necessary to examine whether there can be a policy in this area that transcends national borders. Otherwise one will say "sister" in one country and "sister" in another. After all, we are already seeing the effects at the border with the Netherlands. Madam Secretary, my urgent appeal is for you to sit down with the Minister for Economic Affairs. I am asking for such a ban and I think I can find a lot of partners in this House for that. If you say that you do not care and that Parliament should do so, then that is also an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u98	Madam Secretary, I too remain hungry. My questions were also mainly about sales and I received very few answers. I think it is also partly your job to include this, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs. The debate has started, action needs to be taken. Otherwise mopping with the crane remains open, because enforcement is impossible. Within a few minutes it happens in different places and the police and the mayors cannot maintain it with the best will in the world. It needs to be discussed. Maybe we can talk about a total ban on sales. Perhaps we should not even go that far and divide the fireworks into different categories, as is actually the case today. We can possibly decide to allow the smaller fireworks for a private individual, while the larger and more dangerous arrows are much more restricted. The question is to what extent we can maintain this and to what extent it is feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic655x.u99	My reply goes in the same direction. Today's debate has started and I hope that we can come up with a legislative framework for banning fireworks as soon as possible. Although there is already a ban that can be imposed by municipal law. In my city, the private use of fireworks is always prohibited, except on New Year's Eve between 23:00 and 1:00, because I am also bound by a police codex. One can buy as much as one wants, but if one can keep buying fireworks, there will always be people who keep setting it off. The police can't maintain that. Eventually one ends up in a society in which one will tell on another and usually the mayor himself will have to act as some sort of sheriff. I do not think that this is the intention and that we will have to work mainly with a ban on buying all fireworks, because if all the back doors are not closed, people will continue to find and use fireworks.
