ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my first question is not really about Ukraine. It was filed on February 22, so before Russia's raid. This question concerns the reception of asylum seekers in hotels or tourist accommodations in Ypres. Since January and February, 90 asylum seekers have been staying at youth hotel The Poppies 1 & 2. For the reception, the owner receives a fee from Fedasil. The Red Cross stands for all other facilities, such as bed, bath and bread. Reception in vacant hotel rooms, however, was a taboo option for you and the federal government. How many hotels and tourist accommodations are used for the reception of asylum seekers? I would like to receive a detailed overview per municipality. What is the capacity utilisation rate and the price per night? Is this shelter temporary and how temporary? When is this gonna stop? My second question concerns the reception of Ukrainian refugees. The refugees from Ukraine are also arriving in our country. Due to the conflict, Ukrainians have the right to temporary protection at European level and therefore do not have to apply for asylum. Municipal authorities receive many questions about the travel and residence opportunities and the legal status of persons from Ukraine in Belgium. The information is still limited and there are many uncertainties. Some people applied for international protection and received an annex 26, i.e. an asylum-seekers certificate, before the start of the crisis. That means municipalities have to give bed, bath and bread. The municipalities will not be able to continue to do so. What will you do with people with an annex 26 who apply for international protection and register with a municipality? These people are entitled to bed, bath and bread. This cannot be offered by the municipalities. In that case, will you accept your responsibility and grant care to these people with an application for international protection? My third question concerns the screening of care families. In the reception of Ukrainian refugees there is a fear that people with less good intentions will also come forward. Some provincial governors therefore called on the municipalities to potentially screen candidate host families. However, this potential screening is not legally possible. How does the coordination of the allocation of refugees to a family proceed? In the meantime, is there a legal framework for doing this screening? If so, what is your plan of action? What guarantees are there to prevent abuse? My last question is about trafficking in human beings. Ukrainian women and children fleeing war violence are not yet safe even in Europe. Gangs and traffickers are eager to take advantage of the situation by waiting for them at the border of Ukraine and luring them with false promises. Even in European cities there are already stories of abuse. Human rights organisations raise the alarm and advocate rapid action. Are there indications of exploitation and trafficking of Ukrainian refugees on our territory? What initiatives have been taken to prevent abuse, exploitation and trafficking in human beings? Are there plans to use Frontex for this, for example? What other initiatives will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u2	Dear Secretary of State, a massive flow of refugees from Ukraine has begun since the Russian invasion. As was predictable, it was only a matter of time before Belgium was also confronted with it. The overall extent of the potential flow of refugees is difficult to estimate, but some experts are talking about 7 million potential refugees, of whom 200,000 could come to Belgium. So it is already clear that the challenge we face is absolutely not to be underestimated. The government's communication over the last few days has been about living wages and emergency villages, which makes me fear that the government is not sufficiently aware of the seriousness and size of this crisis. Also the unwillingness of the Prime Minister, both last week and this morning in the committee, to see that there is widespread fraud by non-Ukrainians interfering in the Ukrainian refugee stream, predicts a very bad outcome of this crisis for Flanders. The reception capacity of the Fedasil network has exceeded the threshold of 30,000 asylum places this year. Yet all the shelters are already overcrowded today. There are refugees, but also illegal migrants from all over the world. The places are occupied by persons who do not appear to have the right to asylum. We need these places for Ukrainian refugees now. Because of this mismanagement, you did not have many other options more than to call on local authorities and citizens to receive Ukrainian refugees. They did that massively, and that's heartwarming. However, I am angry at the fact that our expensive reception network cannot now receive refugees when war breaks out in Europe. At European level, it was decided that Ukrainian refugees will automatically receive a temporary residence permit without having to go through the asylum procedure. It is reported that the European Commission wanted to grant this status to all, including non-Ukrainians, who entered the territory of the EU from Ukraine. This, of course, met with very justified opposition from Austria, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary and Romania, among others. Ultimately, the right to temporary protection status would rightly be limited to Ukrainians and recognised refugees living in Ukraine. Member States are not obliged to grant this status to students and workers from other countries, but they are still free to do so. That's very dangerous for abuse. After all, it is predictable that non-Ukrainians, namely North Africans and Asians from all over the world, will seize the opportunity to come to Europe in the wake of the Ukrainian refugee flow and thus have direct access to our social security, with the OCMW and all kinds of support mechanisms. That will certainly happen if you already communicate that everyone will receive a living wage. Moreover, it is far from possible that this phenomenon, as a hybrid warfare, will be fueled by Russia and Belarus. Especially now that we are faced with the immense flow from Ukraine, it is more than ever necessary that every refuge is available for real refugees, and preferably European refugees. Thousands of asylum seekers from all over the world reside in this country, who ultimately do not have the right to asylum. Every bed they occupy is a bed where no real refugee from Ukraine can sleep. Even if you want to avoid the overwhelming and heart-warming helplessness of the Flemish people not turning into a hangover too quickly, it is urgently necessary to recognise those forms of abuse and fraud in the first place. Can you guarantee that the granting of European protection status in this country is strictly limited to Ukrainians? Will Belgium also accept non-Ukrainians, who claim to have worked or studied in Ukraine for an indefinite period or not? I have already put that question to our Prime Minister, but unfortunately I did not get an answer to it both last week and this morning. I hope you will give me an answer. Will non-Ukrainians, once on our EU territory, be safely repatriated to their homeland, if possible? What agreements were made on this at European level? Have agreements already been made with certain countries of origin? The Flemish interest proposes that the granting of this new European protection status, as is already the case in a number of Eastern European countries, should be strictly limited to those persons for which it is intended, in particular Ukrainians and recognised refugees from Ukraine. What measures have you yourself taken to combat abuse and fraud? What measures are already on the table? First of all, it is very important that you recognise the problem: fraud, abuse, the fact that many non-Ukrainians are interfering in the flow of refugees. You haven't denied it yet, but the Prime Minister has denied it. Both last week and this morning, he said there's no evidence for that. He said these weren't facts. Do you dare contradict the Prime Minister? One in three so-called refugees coming from Ukraine to France would not be Ukrainian. Aren't those facts? Is the French state lying about those figures in France? In Germany, 18% of so-called Ukrainian refugees would not be Ukrainian. Aren't those facts? If Robin Ramaekers, VTM journalist, is at the border of Ukraine and Poland and says he sees hundreds of Africans crossing the border and that he suspects that there are smugglers at that border, aren't they facts? I think so. The facts are on the table. You must acknowledge this problem and then, hopefully, address it. In the interest of the Ukrainians, but also in the interest of the Flemings who are now showing their solidarity, it is very important that the signal is now given that we are only receiving Ukrainians and recognised refugees, and that our hospitality and our social security are only available to them and not to lucky seekers, not to illegal migrants and certainly not to smugglers. Third-country nationals coming from Ukraine should be repatriated at European level and with the countries concerned. We urgently need to make arrangements to ensure that this is done safely. I would like to make it very clear that we do not leave anyone behind in the violence of war. Everyone is welcome here to be received, but non-Ukrainians must be repatriated to their country of origin. What additional measures will you take to reduce the influx of improper asylum seekers and to increase the outflow of those who are not entitled to asylum? There too, it has been limping for many years. What additional measures will you take to reduce the procedural time of previous asylum applications and speed up their handling? What steps will you take to stop the influx from all directions through the development of an improved variant of the Australian approach to illegal migration? What steps will you take to ensure that reception, with our financial and logistical support of course, is preferably done in the Western neighbours of Ukraine? If Ukrainian refugees wish to travel here to be taken care of here, we are of course open to that. If the pressure is too high, we will of course do more than our share. I think it is important that we send a very clear signal now that we will support those Eastern European countries, which now receive most of the refugees, by all means. My next question is about living wages. I have heard you and the Prime Minister say that refugees from Ukraine, who claim automatic recognition, will receive a living wage. What will we do when the predictions come true? What will we do if there are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands or possibly two hundred thousand Ukrainian refugees? Then the award of a living wage is not desirable but simply priceless. Our social security system is virtually bankrupt today. It is simply not desirable and not affordable for us to give hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian refugees a living wage, while it is already more than enough to give them a bed, bath, bread and some maintenance money. This is about real refugees. This is about Ukrainians looking for a safe place to stay. These are women, children, elderly people who want temporary accommodation in Belgium, in Eastern Europe, in the rest of the European Union, while Ukrainian men are defending their people and their homeland. So there is no need for us to push our social security even further into bankruptcy by starting to scatter living wages. I would have liked to have heard your clear point of view. I asked the Prime Minister the same question this morning, but unfortunately, as so often, we did not receive an answer. Then I come to the next part of my questions. The registration centre on the Heizel proved very quickly too small for the influx of Ukrainian refugees. Very soon we also got ominous and very negative reports about what was going on there. In concrete terms, there were computer problems, older people, mothers with babies and children who had to wait for hours or sometimes a whole day and still could not register. There were no toilets. The communication was flawed. Drinking and food supplies came mainly on the shoulders of neighborhood residents and activists who rushed there to help the people. I myself have also received a lot of messages from people who reported that Ukrainian acquaintances of them sometimes fainted after six or seven hours of waiting and had to be removed from line. Can you confirm these messages or contradict them? What will you do to help people there and to make procedures much easier, especially since we are only at the beginning of this crisis? It's five to twelve, so it's time for action. I look forward to your specific answers to my questions, unlike the Prime Minister's answers this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, it has been more than two weeks since the war broke out in Ukraine, at the gates of Europe, causing its share of misfortunes to a population that is certainly brave, but totally disembodied. Europe and Belgium are now facing a major humanitarian crisis. We must welcome these people who have taken the path of exodus to save their lives. It is mainly women and their children who arrive in large numbers in our territory in search of relief and respite. No one knows for how long. The reception and the first treatment took place at the former Bordet hospital site. On 7 March, approximately 5,000 refugees had already come to register. Fortunately, since 14 March, you have taken steps to open a centre at the Heysel Palace 8, so that you can better accommodate a large number of people. However, there are still important lines in front of the buildings. While these people have left their country and have had to abandon everything, they still find themselves in line during the cold for long hours. This is obviously very poignant and puts us in front of our responsibilities. In this topical debate, what means do you have to strengthen the staff in charge of this registration process? Do you intend to decentralize the check-in points so that this is not only done in Brussels at Palais 8, but also in the different provinces and even the municipalities? Much has been said about the fact that people should not come immediately, if they already had housing, that they could wait and that they had 90 days to register. However, it seems to me that as long as they are not registered, they do not have papers to start working. However, many people are really asking to be able to join the labour market. I have not heard any communication about this. I can only hear the fact that they are told that they have time, that they must not come immediately if they already have housing, that they can come within 90 days and that they must come only if they do not have housing. However, they are not told that until they come, they cannot start working. I also know that children are enrolled in schools. For integration, nothing better than work. Many are asking for it. I think it's important. Have you therefore asked your services to complete the communication by stating: "There is no urgency to come, you have 90 days. However, if you have a work opportunity, present yourself right away!"?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u4	Mrs Gilson, you have a maximum of two minutes to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u5	Yes, Mr. President, I am coming to the end of my question. Is there an online reservation system that can be set up on an hourly basis, as we had set up for vaccination? Because many of these people have smart phones and therefore have access to the Internet, which in any case would make it possible for some people not to have to queue. I am in contact with many Belgians of Ukrainian origin. Since you created a site (info-ukraine.be), don't you consider creating a Facebook page to allow better communication? What could you do to help all these people who are mostly women and children?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to welcome the magnificent momentum of solidarity that is needed from our fellow citizens present in order to meet the expectations through the provision of housing, donations and mobilization. I would also like to welcome the representatives of the municipalities who are responding to take on an essential role of accompaniment via the CPAS in the search for housing. I saw in Bordet last Saturday the momentum of solidarity of the federal services (Fedasil, Office of Foreigners (OE)) They respond present on the ground. They're here. There are known faces that my collaborator and I have known for a long time and they were at the front. What was also remarkable at Bordet last Saturday was the dignity of the victims. They wait in the cold and in fear, but they remain worthy and patient. In highlighting this momentum of solidarity, I will also highlight the disorganization that I have been able to observe at Bordet and Heysel and which raises questions. I have the feeling that we are never prepared for a crisis – certainly, we did not expect this conflict in Ukraine – and that we are doing nothing but DIY. Today, however, the people who arrive are in a terrible psychological, physical and mental state and I have the impression that this lacks benevolence and accompaniment. How do you explain this disorganization? Should we solve problems in terms of personnel? Are there needs that are not being met? Do you lack equipment? Did you ask for support from other organizations, NGOs to help you in the mission? What can we do and what are you planning to do to build power in the coming days at the Heysel and offer a human welcome, from the start, without men and women waiting on the street without toilets and meals? You really need to be able to act. I know that your task is not simple, but what is your plan to achieve it? The municipalities, and Waremme is part of it, are now in a situation that is not simple. They still feel that they lack clear instructions and frameworks to work. What are you going to do to improve this contact with the municipalities? How are you going to meet their expectations, particularly in terms of the registration of Ukrainians and their orientation to Heysel? How can the formalities be simplified to accommodate them with dignity? The municipalities and the CPAS now bear the enormous weight of this welcome. Federal entities are mobilizing, but what does the federal government do? Is it also considering providing financial support, assistance to the CPAS and the communes to carry out this mission that they are taking on at arm's length? If so, what will this help be and if not, why doesn't the federal government do it? With regard to the differences in treatment, I had already told you last week that what worries me is the difference between Ukrainian nationals arriving and enjoying temporary protection and those coming from Ukraine without the same protection. Is there a difference in the reception by the Foreigners' Office between Ukrainian natives and foreign nationals living in Ukraine? Why and on what legal basis? How do you intend to settle this difference in treatment? What documents do they receive following the refusal of the Office of Foreigners to process their application within the Heysel at present? Does this oblige them to go to the arrival centre to apply for international protection? It is important to clarify this situation. With regard to unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA), we have heard numerous hearings recently. We have seen the difficulty of meeting their needs, their vulnerability, especially at the level of the guardianship service. Today, the alarm bell is drawn by the Delegate for the Rights of the Child, but also by many associations that warn about the arrival of minors from Ukraine and that, when minors arrive, people appear who exploit their vulnerability and take advantage of the situation. Young people fleeing the war are potential victims of sexual and economic exploitation. Guardianship plays an important role in protecting them. Mr. Secretary of State, given the shortage of guardians (a total of 270 have been missing), can you tell me if a guardian is appointed for each MENA? What is your plan of action to ensure that administrations are able to assume their obligation to receive and protect these young people who are so vulnerable, so in difficulty and so that guardianship services are able to appoint a guardian? As part of the presentation of your policy note, you referred to February as the deadline for the priority issue of hosting MENA to be addressed at an interdepartmental conference (IMC). What about it? Have you been able to discuss this with your counterparts in the federated entities? My last question concerns the housing allocated to Ukrainian refugees. While solidarity is important, vigilance must be exercised. Many associations have stressed this, such as the Citizens' Refugee Support Platform, which recommends not to place single women, with or without children, in single men and to deploy centralized monitoring for all accommodations. Fedasil remains responsible for receiving applicants for international protection whom they can delegate to partners, subject to the same rules as the Federal Hospitality Agency. Who's going to control these places? Is this really the role of the municipalities, with the difficulties they already have today? Are you considering other processes? Can you guarantee that there will be an efficient and effective control of the quality of housing and the morality of the welcoming people? If there are any complaints, who will handle them? What service will offer them a solution if needed? Should not an official communication, other than suggestions, be sent to the municipalities? Mr Secretary of State, I am well aware that the situation is not easy and that you are really at work in one complex area, this crisis being added to another. But I hope that every effort is made to meet urgent needs and that Belgium will demonstrate its solidarity and responsibility, thanks to the state and the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, you have decided to opt for the status of temporary displaced persons with the activation of a directive that has never been activated before. There are good reasons for this, namely the number of expected refugees, the full reception network and the backlog of CGVS. You have been able to take on a lot of European colleagues, so that the directive was effectively activated. I don't have a problem with that. The only question is, how are we going to deal with it in practice? Personally, I think that things have gone rather quickly. There was very little consultation and there is now a huge amount expected, especially from the local authorities. We were left in the dark. Now there will be a little more clarification. Now people are talking about emergency villages. One would also come to us in Flemish Brabant. There would be several. It was supposed to be about units. I immediately informed the governor that Lubbeek is also a candidate. We have a place in abundance. We're a nationwide town. So we will certainly provide such a camping site. The question is, how do we arrange social assistance? The directive states that temporary displaced persons are entitled to social assistance. How do you see that? I understand that there is still a lot of discussion in the government about this. The Flemish government is now formally asking the federal government to review the payment of the equivalent living wage. What exactly is your position in that? I also see that you are going to have a debate in this House this evening. So I would like to have some clarity on that. My next point is about screening. It is not quite clear to me how the asylum story is now being checked. What are the initial findings? How's that working out for you? Isn't that a good thing? Now DVZ is doing an interview. But how does that work? Could you explain that a little more? I do not have sufficient vision of that. Who exactly is coming in? Is it true that some asylum seekers do not fall under the category? How exactly is that checked?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, my first question concerns the registration of Ukrainian refugees, for which you have already emigrated to Palace 8 of the Heysel. How many people have registered so far? How's the registration on the Heysel going? What is the logistical framework at the registration centre? Is food and drink provided, is there a resting place if you have to wait a long time, can you get medical care if you need it? How many staff did you employ for registration? How many additional staff were released from the DVZ and Fedasil to facilitate registration? Several local authorities already asked about the possibility of a decentralised registration, because already unregistered Ukrainian refugees were received locally. For example, they ended up in a host family or family. Last week they did not get the message to go to Brussels because of the long waiting lists, but without registration further steps could be more difficult. Is the possibility of decentralised registration already in place or are you working on it? Why is that? Why is that? It is estimated that up to 200,000 Ukrainian refugees will come to our country. It will be a great challenge to find a place to stay for all those people. Last week the idea of emergency villages was launched. What are we supposed to mean by emergency villages? Where are these emergency villages gonna be? How many people will be taken in by emergency village? How long will people be able to stay there? How many collective shelters are currently available, both federally, regionally and locally? Do you have any idea how many collective shelters have already been created and how many collective shelters are still in the pipeline? I also have a question about the support of the local authorities at the shelter. There is a great deal of solidarity among the municipalities. They are searching for places for refugees, also following your call hashtagPlakFree. However, many mayors also have questions about this. For the social workers of the OCMWs it will also entail additional workload. If the federal government continues to coordinate care, it is very important that it involves local authorities as much as possible. How are local authorities informed about the reception of refugees? How are local authorities involved in the coordination of the reception of refugees? Will the OCMWFs receive additional support, given the increased workload? What is the role of the governors in coordinating municipal initiatives? How are local authorities supported in setting up emergency care? How can we ensure that all local authorities contribute? That is important. Which local authorities do not offer places and therefore do not want to take responsibility? My final question concerns the screening and accompaniment of individuals who want to take Ukrainian refugees into their homes in the context of hashtagPlekVrij. Immediately after the outbreak of the war, you started the solidarity action hashtagFree. There was criticism that this was done rather quickly. However, it is about a crisis situation that we could not prepare, which meant that we had to move quickly. It is very important to clarify the framework now. The advantage of your action hashtagPleekFree was that there was immediately a great deal of urgency on the local authorities and that a lot of people wanted to express their solidarity and show that they wanted to do something for Ukrainian refugees. In the short term, you have mobilised a lot of people. A week after the action was launched, more than 15,000 citizens wanted to open their homes to Ukrainian refugees. Solidarity is heartwarming, but unfortunately we also saw reports about a number of disturbing reactions, for example from single men who only want to bring a beautiful, well-kept Ukrainian woman into the house. These reactions show that there is a need for proper screening and guidance and that we must be vigilant for abuse. Some local authorities have themselves started such a screening, for example by checking whether providers of a place have a blank record. However, there would be no legal basis for this. At the moment, it is not very clear how this preventive screening can be done. Who coordinates the allocation of refugees to a host family? How does the screening of the places offered proceed? Is there a legal framework so that local authorities can do the screening themselves or do you intend to develop a framework for this? What guarantees are there to prevent abuse? Fairwork warned that it starts with domestic chores, which refugees they take in, perhaps want to do, but we must of course ensure that this does not ultimately lead to exploitation. Finally, where can host families and refugees go when living together is difficult and they still want a different place? Can they still go to collective care? How will we support these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u9	I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u10	First of all, it is clear to my party that we will welcome every war fugitive cordially and fully. Many volunteers and local authorities and regional authorities are working hard on this. Every crisis situation is accompanied by many questions and uncertainties. It's no different today. Clear communication is therefore essential to provide everyone with the right information. Both the Ukrainian refugees and the people on the ground who organise the shelter should be given that information. The first people have already arrived in our country. We need to switch quickly, and so do you. Firstly, how many Ukrainian people and families have already arrived and registered in our country? Secondly, the registration centre on the Heizel is already operational, but is it also envisaged to set up registration centres in Flanders and Wallonia? Thirdly, how does the screening of refugees in the notification centres take place? Is the federal police involved in this? Fourthly, how far are you, along with the regions, with the emergency villages? Have you been in contact with private partners for the creation of shelters? Fifth, on what legal basis is the benefit of the equivalent living wage based? What conditions will be attached to obtaining the equivalent living wage? Are resources charged, for example? Sixthly, is there already a dispersal plan in Europe? Is there also a distribution plan in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u11	Mr President, Secretary of State, my speech concerns the non-Ukrainians who flee the country. We have already had the opportunity to talk about it, but not specifically in committee. I have two questions. Firstly, with regard to these famous discriminations at the border, the President of the European Council spoke of Russian misinformation. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees had expressed her concerns in that regard. If you have been there, can you guarantee or testify that there is no or more discrimination on the border against persons of non-Ukrainian ethnic origin or foreign nationality? Secondly, I heard that some non-Ukrainian people who fled Ukraine and tried to apply for temporary protection status from the Jules Bordet Institute did not receive it. Of course, the protection offered by the Temporary Protection Directive is not a priori granted to them, but it seems to me that at the very least they can be facilitated or helped to look at their future differently. Is it possible, instead of dismissing the persons concerned as is the case today, to put in place a genuine procedure of assistance in Belgium to put them in contact with their embassies and then to help them return to their country of origin smoothly? Until they can return to their country of origin, what assistance, such as Fedasil accommodation, can non-Ukrainian people benefit from in Belgium? Finally, for some of them who were studying in Ukraine and who could possibly pursue studies in another European country, for example in Belgium, can a door be opened to them so that at least one student-based application can be examined or even granted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, 1 000 Ukrainians have already arrived in our country. Thousands more will follow. They've been through a lot and they may have been traumatized. They deserve to be helped, just like any refugee, in good conditions. That starts with the registration. It's a little chaotic for now. In this respect, I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. After registration, it is important to give them shelter in the short term. That is why we are now focusing on larger, collective projects. All the understanding for that, for need breaks the law. However, we cannot put these people in a waiting room. That is why we must consider these collective shelters as a temporary solution. If the war drags on, it is not desirable for them to have to live in such a collective shelter for months or years. So I want to look at what comes after this first phase of the creation of collective shelters. Are you working on plans to transfer Ukrainian refugees to small-scale or individual shelters? If so, can you provide more information? We also note that there is a great deal of goodwill in the local authorities today to find shelters for Ukrainian refugees. Do you have any idea how many of these new reception points can be used later for the regular reception circuit, where the situation is also precarious? An article in De Tijd today contained current figures for the last few days, which showed that refugees are refused a first asylum application. That is unacceptable. They also have a right to shelter. Several Ukrainian refugees will also rent a house in Belgium. That will undoubtedly increase the pressure on the regular rental market. There are already housing shortages in the cheapest segment of the rental market. Houses will therefore become even more expensive for people with little financial resources. How will you stop that? A large number of refugees from Ukraine require a coordinated European approach. For the first time, the temporary protection status was invoked for Ukrainian refugees. In addition, there are no agreements, either on a distribution plan or on support from the European Union for the Member States. Is there a European distribution plan? If so, what operational impact does this have on the EU Member States? In what way has Belgium committed itself at European level? Has Belgium agreed to receive a certain number of Ukrainian refugees? If so, what number are we talking about? What is the situation with regard to these reception services in terms of guarantees? Many third-country nationals with long-term residence permits in Ukraine, such as migrant workers or foreign students, were faced with discrimination during their flight from Ukraine. It now appears that they are receiving a different treatment in Belgium and that their right to asylum is not guaranteed because of the crisis in Belgian reception. Every day, people are refused at the gates of the Little Castle. You keep getting convictions for that, with periodic penalty payments. What will you do to prevent this violation of their right to asylum? We heard that third-country nationals with long-term residence permits in Ukraine would be granted the temporary protection status in Germany and the Netherlands and therefore no distinction is made between third-country nationals and other refugees from Ukraine. Can you confirm that? If so, why the difference between Belgium and the Netherlands and Germany? Is that determined at European level? What's your vision on that? Finally, I would like to shed some light on unaccompanied minors from Ukraine. They urgently need a guardian, but the Voogdijk service is already suffering from an acute shortage of guardians to these minors. This deficit is now only likely to increase. That also has a perverse effect. Ukrainian unaccompanied minors more often meet the criteria of the priority rules, which means that unUkrainian unaccompanied minors will still have to wait for a guardian. For example, these structural deficits create tensions between refugees. That can't be the intention. Do you have an overview of the number of Ukrainian unaccompanied minors who have arrived and will arrive in our country? Is there sufficient capacity in the orientation centres to accommodate them? Following the hearing on unaccompanied minors, have you talked to Minister Van Quickenborne about the lack of guardians? Will new guardians be recruited? If so, how many? What is the share of the professional guardians in that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u13	Since this is a topical debate, I would like to ask if there are any Members who would like to join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Georges Dallemagne and I come back from Heysel. At noon, we were able to see long queues. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this in plenary last Thursday and you spoke about decentralised structures. We would like to know when these will be operational. Some told us they've been waiting for more than six hours. They've been here since 5:30. It is true that once inside, the service is really efficient. It's going! Agents are welcoming and have empathy and respect for all people. Even if, in the queues, there was a lot of dignity and patience, I would have liked to know your tracks, possibly with a ticket system to facilitate the recording. Today, 1,300 people have already been registered and about 800 were still waiting for their turn. Mr Secretary of State, is it not possible to register directly at the municipal level? What about those who arrived before the declaration of temporary protection status? A number of people have arrived before. These must go through an asylum procedure. It's completely aberrant. Shouldn't we go back to February 1, 2022 to qualify for temporary protection status? Like my colleague De Smet, I would like to know what is happening with Congolese students on Belgian territory. Is it possible to have a student status, to find a solution for these people to have a status? What about the other refugees who are very numerous at Petit-Château because of the mobilization – which is quite normal – of the staff on the Heysel site?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u15	If there are no further interventions or questions, I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, there were many questions and so there are many answers to be given. I always have the honour and the pleasure of getting a lot of questions about a lot of powers, even powers not covered by the federal government. However, I always find it a good job to try to respond as best as possible, without, of course, sacrificing the competent colleagues. They have their own powers, and I would like them to answer any questions they may have. Europe is, of course, facing a great challenge, so much is clear. Over three million Ukrainians have fled their country in the last two weeks. Some make the occasional comparison with crises of the past. Sometimes it is said that in 2015 we were working in a different way or that we were less united at the time because we were dealing with Syrian refugees and today we were dealing with Ukrainians. It is, of course, given that in 2015 there were 1.3 million refugees in Europe in a full year. In this crisis three million Ukrainians have already fled their country in two weeks. More than one and a half million of them are in Poland and hundreds of thousands of refugees are in neighbouring countries. In this respect, it is important to understand the context. Fortunately, there are also many large-scale initiatives throughout the European Union to properly apply the temporary protection that has been activated by the European Union. That huge wave of solidarity will be necessary. I also regularly say that there are different ways and necessary aspects to take a position against Vladimir Putin's struggle with Ukraine. One of these aspects is a question of solidarity. When the European Union lets go of the fleeing Ukrainians, it has de facto released Ukraine tout court. We have a duty to do what we are expected to do in this area, together with the entire European Union, even if the challenge is no less. A number of consultation structures have also been set up at European level to identify needs, where the challenges lie and how the European agencies can provide support. One of the Vice-Presidents of the European Commission, Margarítis Schinás, visited the Heysel Registration Centre. He guaranteed that Europe would provide aid and coordinate it. I think this will also be necessary. The European Union has often demonstrated its ability to take 27 separate policy initiatives in the area of migration. These lead, above all, to much less solutions than should be. At the Belgian level, everyone took steps and set themselves around the table. A national crisis centre ensures coordination at the operational level between the various federal, regional and local authorities. On the question of how many people have already been registered, the most up-to-date, accurate figure I can give is that of yesterday, 15 March: then there were 9,620 Ukrainians registered. About 2,700 of these are available for reception. Most people end up with friends and family. The question is how that will evolve in the coming months if more people are fleeing nowhere. So today we are above 10,000 registrations. Of course, this is not comparable with other European countries, especially Ukraine's neighbours: Poland is up against 2 million. Small countries like Moldova are catching up with huge numbers of people today. Prognosis is difficult, Madame Soleil does not exist. If journalists ask how many asylum seekers will be coming in next year and in ten years' time, these are nice theoretical thinking exercises, but we can only rely on what the UN says, namely that 4 to 7 million Ukrainians could flee. And they also update their forecasts, because last week they talked about 2 million, they also depend on what Russia is doing in Ukraine, with its attacks on different cities. But if that number is correct, with the Belgian fair share from 2.6 to 3.7 %, 80,000 to 287.000 people are estimated by Celeval, with 200,000 being a realistic target number. Will we ever come to that number effectively? I don't have a glass ball, but we have to be careful. We need to prepare for the least favourable scenarios. That is our job, and that is why the National Crisis Centre continues to monitor the situation. That center has set up an evaluation cell with various experts. This crisis affects different policy areas and levels of competence, both federally and regionally. As I said, the Crisis Centre plays an important role in coordinating the crisis. To this end, it organises a coordination meeting several times a week with representatives of all relevant departments, cabinets and administrations across policy levels. There is also ongoing consultation with the governors in order to coordinate the activities of the various authorities as closely as possible. The Inter-Ministerial Conference (IMC) also met very quickly after the outbreak of the conflict and following the European decision to activate the Directive, and has already met several times. Finally, the various prime ministers also meet weekly with the Prime Minister, Minister Verlinden and myself to discuss with the Crisis Centre what further policy initiatives are needed and what needs are in the field. So there are a lot of consultation structures, but the most important thing is that we see each other as often as possible and coordinate things as best we can. The use of the crisis structure with Celeval, COFECO, structural consultation with the governors and various bilateral contacts with the competent services................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr De Smet, to answer one of your questions, from the beginning of the crisis, I have pleaded with the European Union for non-discriminatory access for those who have fled the conflict. My counterparts in Ukraine's neighbouring countries recognize the existence of some chaos at the beginning of the crisis, but deny that of any discrimination on the European side of the border. The figures confirm this: several non-Ukrainian people have already arrived in the Union. This issue is distinct from that of status and residence. On the other hand, on the other side of the Ukrainian border, chaotic situations have probably taken place. Indeed, some could not cross it directly. With regard to the border of the Union, the States are clear and clear: no distinction is made. With regard to residence status, for most nationalities, there are no obstacles to return to the border region, as soon as the person concerned is safe in his or her country of origin or permanent residence. Several third countries cooperate with the European Union to help their nationals return home. Pending voluntary return, they are granted a visa of limited duration and territorial validity. Of course, it makes sense for you to know that when someone of American nationality, for example, arrives in the European Union and pursues studies in Ukraine, he must be able to leave that country and then return home. It goes without saying that a Belgian student in Senegal must be able to return to Belgium if necessary. The same applies to those whose residence is temporary. There were also questions about Ukrainians' social rights under temporary protection. The European Directive requires all Member States to provide social assistance to beneficiaries of temporary protection. This assistance scheme differs from one Member State to another, but, of course, the cost of living also varies from one Member State to another. At the same time, other factors may motivate a decision by a Ukrainian to choose one country or another. The fact that many Ukrainians today choose Poland, Moldova or Hungary has, of course, to do with the presence of family and friends, or an earlier experience in the country; language skills can also play a part. When the Directive was transposed in 2001, it was decided to register persons with temporary protection in the Alien Register. There was therefore no specific regulation at European level with regard to these social rights. A temporarily protected person thus has the same rights as another foreigner with a right of residence of more than three months, that is the famous A card. I refer you to the competent colleague, Mr Karine Lalieux, for the conditions of an equivalent living wage and the terms of the award. But you all know I like to give my opinion. With regard to the discussion on the maintenance of living wages and housing, I would like first and foremost to see a clear regulation whereby all OMCWs apply the same criteria. Of course, there is no obligation for the government to grant both an equivalent living wage and free housing. It seems weird that we'd both give. I understand that some parties are clear about questions or views on this. I would like to hear your opinion on this, but it seems logical to me that an equivalent living wage includes housing. A living wage is covered by social services, which is different from social integration. I understand that other levels of policy and other regions are taking certain positions. The most important thing is for a clear position to be taken. I can't play minister of everything, but I'd like to give my opinion on how things should be done. I do not think there are any differences of opinion about this either. Logically, we need to look at how housing, organised by the government, can be taken into account, for example by holding a rent in advance, depending on the accommodation provided. That's how people contribute. Housing and getting one hundred percent of the living wage would create an unequal situation compared to other people who receive a living wage. I don't know anyone who thinks we should. I also know no one who believes that we should treat the Ukrainian worse than, for example, an Afghan. So I think, but I would like to hear your opinion, that we are convinced that there must be a tie-up. Free accommodation and a full living wage together is therefore not possible. I do not want to speak in turn about Mr Lalieux's competence, but I have, of course, done it now. In my view, unequal treatment should be avoided to the maximum. The dispersal plan. European solidarity in the form of redistribution is not laid down in the Council Decision which activates the Temporary Protection Directive. However, Member States shall coordinate their solidarity in the form of material aid, emergency humanitarian aid, sharing of expertise and also readmissions in a dedicated platform for this purpose. Belgium is prepared to investigate requests for takeovers, if they are part of a multilateral and structured approach. I think that's very important. Each European Member State will have to contribute. Temporary protection is decided at European level and therefore requires a commitment from all of us. We cannot pass this on to Ukraine's immediate neighbours. In this respect, it is particularly important that we do not think that Poland, Hungary and Moldova will take care of it all, provided that some compensation is made here or there. We are the region that has to do it. Solidarity is very important. It is therefore important for Europe to coordinate them properly. An internal Belgian agreement has also been reached on a division of 60% Flanders and 40% Brussels and Wallonia. This seems to me to be a logical key, with the federal level also making the necessary efforts. Although the Regions are competent for housing, it would not be appropriate to merely offer a place of residence and take no further responsibility. The federal government provides crisis care or night care for people who arrive late at night and cannot be sent directly to a city or municipality. Hence the creation of reception capacity, in a very good cooperation with the Brussels Region and the city of Brussels. I would like to thank Brussels mayor Close for the extensive work he has done in this area. As far as the distribution of housing is concerned, we have weekly meetings with the Prime Minister and the Prime Ministers. I would also like to thank the Regions in this area for all that they have already done and the great efforts that are already being made. It is only together that we can do something, and it is thanks to the three Regions that we can make this a success story. I had a question from Mr Moutquin as to the scope of application: Ukrainian nationals and members of their families whose principal residence was in Ukraine; - stateless persons and third-country nationals other than Ukraine who have benefited from international protection - a recognised refugee in Ukraine is necessarily covered by this Directive as well as members of his family (the spouse or partner, the unmarried minor child, including that of the spouse, whether legitimate, born out of wedlock or adopted, and other close relatives who lived in the family unit). I have had questions from colleagues Daems and Rigot about the scope and whether this could not be extended. It was also asked whether it would not be appropriate to decide at national level to protect larger groups of people. The Commission Directive on implementation is being analysed. The Commission's guidelines are normally published today. That's important. As far as Belgium is concerned, I believe that, in accordance with the general principles generally applied in foreign law, third-country nationals who can safely return to the country of origin do not need temporary protection in our country. I made that clear earlier. It seems logical to me that an American studying in Ukraine should be helped above all to be able to return to the United States. It seems equally logical to me that a Senegalese who was working in Ukraine should be helped above all to leave Ukraine safely, so that it can then return to Senegal. We have to be realistic. It will be a real challenge to take good care of all those who need our protection. In this respect, therefore, there must be an objective difference between a Ukrainian, or who has been recognised as a refugee in Ukraine, and persons who do not need protection at all. Ukrainians can't go back, unlike other third country nationals. I just wanted to make that distinction clear. The country, the skin colour or the color of the eyes have nothing to do with that. We make purely the logical distinction between someone who runs from the war and can't go back, versus someone who can. If someone claims not to be a refugee, but to be in need of protection, then there is, of course, the right to asylum. In that case, everyone is free to apply for asylum. I now come to the role of the local authorities and the provinces. As I have just said, since the beginning of this crisis, we have worked closely with the National Crisis Centre. Its extensive expertise enables us to effectively exchange information with all actors involved at all political levels. One of the standard platforms in such crisis management is a structural consultation with the governors. They are the intermediaries for the unambiguous transmission of information to local authorities. This information obviously goes in both directions. We therefore take full account of the comments of the local authorities in order to make our procedures as user-friendly as possible and to ensure harmonious cooperation with cities and municipalities. In addition, we have very good contacts with VVSG, UVCW and Brulocalis in order to provide details to local governments if necessary. In practice, the vast majority of Fedasil allocations are very smooth and correct. The dispatching team in Palace 8 contacts the local coordinator and gives him all relevant information in this conversation: the specific addresses, the family composition, the time of arrival. In this way, more than 2,700 Ukrainians have already been allocated to crisis housing locations in the different cities and municipalities. As far as I am concerned, that is a success at the moment, both for Fedasil and for the local authorities that are working, but the road is obviously still very long. Luckily, therefore, we quickly launched an action in which we asked the local authorities if they had collective and individual shelters via the 'hashtag space-free' action. If we hadn't, we'd be in huge trouble today. Is that enough? Not at all. There is therefore a need for many initiatives, ranging from emergency shelter structures and emergency shelter villages if necessary, to collective shelters in the different cities and municipalities. However, I do not want to speak too much for my turn, but I can see that regions are working on this. Many questions have also been asked about Ukraine's reception places. So from the federal government we are organizing the federal emergency shelter, but we need to be able to forward people as soon as possible to the local crisis housing sites that the municipalities have passed on through the action we have taken. All available places are currently collected via local boards in a housing tool. This is an IT tool developed by the National Crisis Centre to provide a clear overview of the first offer, with a view to a smooth dispatching by Fedasil. This does not, of course, prevent the Region from continuing to take up its commitment to increase the offer and to provide additional places at local level. At the moment there are 39,733 places in our housing tool and both the private sector and individuals have committed themselves to being part of the solution. I also know that the regions have the ambition and the ambition to provide 30,000 places by the end of the month. This will, of course, be necessary from the assumption that the number of applications will increase sharply. Then we must be able to follow, and that is not obvious. Therefore, the most important aspect is not to look at each other and wonder what the other will do, but to see what we can do together. After all, this requires a solution that we can only achieve together. As far as registration is concerned, I can say the following. Since the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, we have seen a very rapid increase in the number of people from Ukraine present at the Klein Kastiltje. That's why we created a new registration center very quickly. That was initially in a former hospital. It's a good thing we did. Some people have also asked why they are getting a different procedure and route. I think it is good for everyone that Ukrainians end up in a separate large registration centre. This also means that the Klein Kasteelje can be done with the work that is focused on the target groups that are not covered by temporary protection. Fortunately, thanks to the City of Brussels and the CPAS, we were able to quickly use the premises of the Jules Bordet Institute. In addition, I would like to thank all the services that have enabled a new registration centre to be set up at the Heysel Palace 8 in 48 hours. More than 2,000 people can be registered per day. People work from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. They do a remarkable job, and I thank them for that. The establishment of the Registration Dispatching Centre is a huge work of the Foreign Office, Fedasil, the Red Cross, the National Crisis Centre, Civil Protection and the federal and local police. A center that is open 7 days out of 7 is a major challenge. Persons who enter until then should therefore be registered and assigned a place. The employees work on site until late at night. Mobile toilets were installed yesterday even more than the day before yesterday, and today even more than yesterday. It's constantly updating. The printers and computers were put together and the day itself used immediately. We also see that the capacity of registration yesterday was higher than the day before. It is a question of letting the employees be experienced, as is the case with the vaccination centres, where the capacity was increased day after day through cooperation. The focus of the various services was the past works aimed at increasing central registration capacity. With regard to the decentralised mode, a duplication of registration capacity at the decentralised level obviously poses enormous challenges in terms of the management of processes, staff and, above all, equipment. It is not the case that the police simply have Printrak computers and screening equipment that are needed to make clear security screening and registration screening available to place in 10 different cities and municipalities. It is also not obvious to find sufficient staff to do so everywhere. It was first a question of strengthening the service centrally in Brussels. The next stage is to look at whether there are possibilities to decentralise, but obviously that is not, please be aware of that. We now have 42 counters and we want to increase that number to 66 in Palace 8, again to strengthen things in Brussels. Emergency capacity is planned at the federal level. To this end, we intend to create 5,000 emergency reception spaces. In this context, an emergency accommodation centre was opened today in Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, where 1,500 people can be accommodated in the long term. These places are therefore complementary to the regular places of the Fedasil reception network. Mr Vandenput asked questions about security screening. These are indeed being carried out. The registration shall record the identity data. The Foreign Affairs Office shall transmit the information to the competent security services, such as State Security, ADIV and the Federal Police, and shall also carry out a check of the ANG and the SIS database itself. I think that's important. Does this delay the procedure? Probably. If we didn't do all this, people would be walking through the whole procedure in a few minutes. But that's not wise. There's got to be a screening. I sometimes hear people saying that there are people who are not from Ukraine at all. That is precisely what screening is for. In this respect, it is good that the services are doing this work. Both the police and the Foreign Office are on the scene. I'm grateful to them for the work they're doing there. It is of course essential that Ukrainian refugees be well informed. To this end, we have opened the website info-ukraine.be, which is constantly updated. Several pages have been translated into Ukrainian. Persons registered with the Aliens Office also receive an information brochure on temporary protection. At the Midi train station, a centre was opened by Brussels Help to inform Ukrainian refugees. As regards the housing of persons fleeing Ukraine, there is the concept of emergency villages, which I launched a few days ago. I am grateful to the various regions to get to work on this right away. The Flemish government is also considering whether emergency villages can be built. Is that overshooting? Maybe. Maybe there won't be 200,000 people. Perhaps we will have a news flash that there is an agreement between Russia and Ukraine. That would be a good thing, but in the meantime we cannot afford the luxury of waiting and watching things resolve themselves. So we have to do what's necessary. The organisation of all these sites and quality control are at the regional level. Of course, it is also possible for someone with temporary protection to turn to the private market, although we also know the major challenges in terms of housing policy. I have also organised an inter-ministerial conference with the competent Minister of Housing and the local authorities to discuss how best to work together here. The different powers are clear, but it is again a question of cooperation. As far as questions about families are concerned, I understand that there are a lot of questions about the safety of people who have been taken care of. Mr Segers has asked a lot of questions about this. The hashtag 'place-free' has ensured that we can properly coordinate the many families that have applied to receive refugees at home. The reception of refugees is all very noble, but it is not easy. It is important that care families are framed. We saw that there were a lot of citizens who organised themselves through social media to receive people at home. There are Facebook groups of people everywhere who are going to organize everything themselves. I think it's important that it doesn't happen this way. Hence the call to go through local boards and not through a Facebook group. Then there is no control. It is also important to protect the people who join us for a registration at the Heysel. So that's what we're doing. After all, there are people who come to the Heysel as a good citizen. And yes, there are a lot of good citizens among them, who wouldn't rather go to the Heysel as soon as they see images of people joining them. They say, "Come with me. Tell the organization you don't need shelter, you can go to me." There too we must ensure that we protect the people and so we also control people who often want to help people with very good intentions. However, that is not the way it should be done. Together with the Minister for the Interior, a screening is being carried out for the families applying, of course, within the limits of the regulatory framework. People are already being assigned to host families today, but, of course, public care structures are preferred, which also facilitates the process of giving the family time to be further informed. At the moment, many people indicate that they do not need shelter, because they already have an alternative. It is important that we do not lose sight of those people either. We must also check for them which kind of care that is. That's why Fedasil has developed a brochure for people who say they don't need shelter. This will enable them to be well informed and give them an initial explanation. They are informed of a telephone number that they can call in case they would still need further support. I shall now turn to the matching of refugees with families. At the moment, after registration with the Foreign Office, Fedasil is looking into whether there is a need for shelter. Where a place is available that meets the needs of family composition, medical needs and so on, and the information available in the housing tool is also taken into account. Of course, for unaccompanied minors, it is not intended to receive them from private individuals. I am also in close contact with the Länder to find the appropriate accommodation for minors within the framework provided by the government. Again that is a shared competence, but cooperation is key. I have also received questions about the reception of non-Ukrainian asylum seekers. Together with Fedasil, we continue to work on opening additional reception places for asylum seekers. The outflow is also of great importance. Let me be clear: the reception needs of other asylum seekers are also high on the agenda. Everyone has the right to appropriate support, but it is especially important that we work on the outflow through accelerated procedures in the CGIS. Now that we are in code yellow and the CGVS no longer has to deal with many difficulties in terms of quarantine obligations and measures, I am also convinced that the CGVS will be able to speed up the outflow. We are aware that in the event of a positive response, the outflow will also have an impact on the regular housing market of recognised refugees, so we must also take that into account. It goes without saying that we will also take responsibility for non-Ukrainian refugees. Some people ask questions about real versus non-real refugees, but answers have already been given in plenary. I am pleased that local authorities are ready to receive refugees from Ukraine. It is difficult to predict what we will do after the reception of Ukrainians, because we depend on how long it will take, Mrs Daems. The reception crisis remains, of course, a reality. Together with Fedasil, we need to look at how we continue to work on buffer sites and capacity. As regards initiatives at European level to prevent abuse, the European Commission is asking the Member States to allow foreigners residing in Ukraine who do not claim temporary protection to move on to their country of origin or habitual residence after entry. In order to prevent situations of illegal residence, Member States are encouraged to assist in their repatriation or regularisation, as appropriate. The Frontex permanent corps can be deployed to support the guided departures. We will provide as much support as possible. Several countries of origin also cooperate in the repatriation of their nationals who have been stranded, for example, in Poland, Hungary, Slovakia or Romania. Many people have already returned to their countries of origin through excellent cooperation with different countries, such as India and others. As far as fraud is concerned, it is not enough to state that one is Ukrainian or belongs to one of the categories, of course one has to submit documents. Questions were asked about indications of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. We must, of course, be vigilant about this. It is important that people are properly informed. I've already answered those questions for a piece. I have also largely answered the questions about the European agreements on the return of people from third countries, but I would like to say that Frontex and organisations such as IOM are cooperating in the safe return of people from third countries. Such persons shall be granted a visa with a limited period of validity upon their arrival in the EU. They are then helped as best they can to contact the country of their nationality from the country of arrival. Most of the Member States concerned are therefore in contact with these countries. Third-country nationals arriving in Belgium from Ukraine will also be helped to return to their country of origin in safe conditions. In conclusion, Mr. De Smet, people who wish to return to their country of origin may also seek assistance from Fedasil through the return window. In normal times, in the absence of a crisis of reception, they can also benefit from a reception by Fedasil. At the moment, this is not possible, given the saturation of the host network. Work is therefore needed in order to strengthen our services as a whole. There were two other questions about the guardians. Unaccompanied Ukrainian minors who register with the OE are reported to the guardianship service as well as other MENA. As a result of this notification, the guardianship service will appoint a guardian. There's a waiting period. The Minister of Justice shall have jurisdiction to that effect. It can be seen that most Ukrainian MENA are accompanied by family members. This is an important element to report! It is not because we arrive with the status of MENA that we arrive alone. All Ukrainian MENA arriving in Belgium are MENA arriving with a cousin, uncle, aunt, etc. They are officially MENA by definition but are not alone. Those who do not have a place of reception will be referred to their families. The Interdepartmental Conference on MENA is expected to take place this Friday. Let us hope so, for we are in a state of crisis! We'll see what we can do. Unfortunately, given the emergency situation, the ICD will have to be postponed but to when? That remains to be seen. In the meantime, all services at the federal and federal levels continue to consult and work together on this important issue. With regard to the capacity of MENA in general, Fedasil is seeking to develop new capabilities. It is difficult to estimate the number of unaccompanied minors from Ukraine arriving in Belgium. My services have so far had a clear view of the number of unaccompanied minors from Ukraine who registered in the Bordet registration centre since 24 February or in Palace 8 on the Heysel. Until March 13, it was 53 minors, but it is possible and almost always the case that they arrive here with an aunt, uncle, cousin or cousin. It is therefore not intended that these minors enjoying temporary protection should be taken in an observation and orientation centre in Fedasil. They will therefore only be dealt with for a short time in very exceptional situations. I am also in contact with Minister Beke and Minister Glatigny to find appropriate shelter, including for these minors. It is important that minors are quickly assigned a guardian if they are all alone here. The Minister of Justice is making great efforts in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u17	So, Mr Secretary of State, the host families cannot be screened by the police, which makes it more difficult to protect these vulnerable people from possible abuse. The majority of Ukrainian refugees are women and children. This brings with it the necessary risks. The war is a chaotic situation where people cannot always make a choice. Often there are also traumas. This makes refugees vulnerable, especially women and children. That is why we must do everything in our power to ensure that these vulnerable people remain out of the hands of traffickers and any abusers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, it is a bit unfortunate that you are passing the hot potato on to others in different ways. The emergency shelter will transfer you to the Regions. Part of it is justified, but it is a pity that you do not recognise that you have some responsibility. We have a very large reception network with more than 30 000 places in this country, but at the time of the outbreak of war in Europe, those places are not available to receive European refugees. Something doesn't add up. That is, of course, not only your responsibility, that is also the responsibility of your many predecessors, who have completely failed to provide an asylum reception network that is there when it is needed. That does not seem to be the case at the moment. It is a pity that you do not recognise this in so many words. The second hot potato you pass through is that of living wages and the discussion about it. There appears to be a great deal of disagreement within the government. Prime Minister De Croo ignored that question this morning. You are now saying that there will be no full living wage at free housing. Mrs Almaci said just now in the Flemish Parliament at Villa Politica that this will be the case. So there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. Instead of simply passing it on to Minister Lalieux, I would have liked you to explain that key as well. What exactly is covered by this free accommodation? What about pay when these people end up in free housing? You say it won't be a hundred percent of the living wage. Then what's left? That's pretty unclear. However, it is important, especially since there will be a large number of Ukrainian refugees, that we get some clarity about this in the short term, because too high a living wage is undesirable and unaffordable. I've filed an interview. This includes a motion, with a number of concrete proposals, which I will explain very briefly. Firstly, it is very important that we strictly restrict the granting of the new European protection status to those for whom it is intended, in particular Ukrainian citizens and recognised refugees from Ukraine. I am pleased that, unlike Mr De Croo, you are moving in that direction and supporting it. The abuse and fraud really need to be dealt with. Just a moment ago, a message came in from the president of the German police union that many Sinti and Roma people have mixed with the Ukrainian flow of refugees to Germany and Western Europe. That is yet another proof of the fraud and abuse that is currently taking place on a massive scale and will flood us if we do nothing about it. You did not immediately acknowledge the abuse, but you did not deny it, as Mr De Croo did this morning. You say that if screening reveals that there are people who are not from Ukraine and who are not entitled to protection, they must be returned or repatriated. But what if they don't want to? Then we just give them another paper order to leave the territory and then they end up here in illegality. Perhaps that is the intention for many of them. Maybe that's why they're coming here. They know that they may not get protection or residence permits, but illegality is enough for many of them, especially for the Roma and Sintizigers, for example. So we need a different approach to what you are proposing today. Measures should be taken to return third-country nationals immediately to their country of origin. You cited the example of an American student. On the videos, photos and messages we're currently getting from Ukraine, it usually doesn't seem to be about American students. They are of course easier to send back to their country of origin. Usually it will be about others, who are just a little more difficult to send back to their country of origin. You say you'll help them. In some cases, we'll have to force them to return. Helping implies that they are of good will, while we see today that many of them are not of good will. In fact, they want to take advantage of the situation, abuse the Ukrainian suffering. In the rest of the motion I have included many other concrete proposals which can help us to manage the crisis that we are facing. I am, as always, counting on your constructive support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u19	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your very detailed answers. You talked about the communication, the website, the translation of leaflets, etc. But given the number of groups on Facebook, I have a request that there be an official Facebook page of the Belgian government to centralize the information there, which is widely consulted by the refugees. I have not heard clearly whether opportunities to decentralize the point of entry will be put in place. Like you, I thank all the staff who work for incredible hours to realize this welcome, but I think we could usefully think about decentralization and an Internet appointment booking system. In any case, thank you too for everything you do for the government, for the image of Belgium, for really showing that it is up to the incredible challenge that we are currently facing and for responding to the best of the plight of all people from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, first of all I would like to comment on the attitude towards non-Ukrainian students and nationals who have had to flee Ukraine. I must admit, I do not agree with you. Indeed, it seems to me that what leads them to flee Ukraine is war and the danger to their lives, not the choice to stop studying or to leave a job in the case of non-Ukrainians who were domiciled in that country. At a minimum, an organized, secure transition option is needed that would allow those who have to leave Ukraine and who arrive in Belgium, if they so wish, to return to their country of origin. If the student who was studying in Ukraine and wishes to return home had to transit through our home, we have to help him too. Spain has put in place another option, extending temporary protection to students fleeing the war. Why don't we consider it? We could, with the help of the academies, allow students who are under the conditions of a study visa to continue their studies at home. This would save them a double sentence: leaving Ukraine because of the danger and having to give up their studies. Then I agree with you about the registration centre and the incredible mobilization of staff. It may seem that it is routine, that it is easy, but it is not the normal life of an administration to mobilize seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day. It's committed, voluntary people who do it. They chose to invest in a mission. I say bravo to them for their energy. We must thank them and give them perspectives. I recall that a few weeks ago these staff members were on strike to demand means to accomplish their mission. On the other hand, I do not understand that you say that it is impossible to decentralize the registration centre, whereas it would certainly be beneficial to those who arrive in Belgium. Not everyone gets to Brussels. In addition, it would be easier for some big viles. In the context of the covid crisis, a tracing system and numerous vaccination centres have been established. I think that if we have been able to do this in a remarkable way in this area, we must have the capacity and the expertise to do so also at the level of refugee registration. You talked about information about victims, families hosting, CPAS and municipalities. This afternoon, in the Social Affairs Committee, the Minister for Social Integration, Mrs Lalieux, was also questioned about the 90-day deadline for registration. It stated that this 90-day period is indeed tolerated. However, in order to benefit from medical assistance, social support and financial assistance, registration is essential. This message must reach the communes, the CPAS and the Ukrainians who arrive at our house, even though I know it's not simple. It is necessary to ensure that they are not in a situation that they have not desired and that they are not adversely affected. Another aspect is trafficking in human beings. Where there is suffering, there is fortunately solidarity. She's been here, and she's been beautiful all along. But there are also abuses and profits. Wherever there is suffering, there are people to enjoy it. Unfortunately, this is the fate of some. That is why we have set up a committee to combat trafficking in human beings, with the aim of improving the fight against such behaviour. Attention must also be paid to the danger. When we're Ukrainian and we're going to settle in a family that's at Heysel, we don't know where we're going to be. So you have to put security clicks. Why not systematically solicit local municipalities and police? However, I defend the easing of the burden on the municipalities. From the moment a Ukrainian family or a Ukrainian settles in the commune, systematically, no matter what, a check of the morals of the welcoming persons should be made and the quality and safety of the place of reception checked. Conditions of access to housing and protection should not be respected, and certainly not the risk of dealing with persons whose criminal records are more than defective. As far as MENA is concerned, I will certainly turn to your colleague, the Minister of Justice, to ask questions about guardianship. We need to put the turbo in order to protect the MENA. I hear we're in an emergency situation. You say that this urgency prevents the Interministerial Conference from meeting. We were also in an emergency when the covid was there, and the ICD didn't know how to get together. Today, we are in an emergency with Ukraine and the ICD still does not know how to meet. Yet the urgency is directly linked to the objective, that is to say, to help unaccompanied minors, especially those coming from Ukraine. If the emergency is Ukraine, then the emergency is also minors coming from Ukraine. So you have to punch your fist, take your phone, tell your colleagues that you have to find time to meet and provide an answer. It's essential. On the other hand, vigilance by CPAS and everyone will be required to ensure that aid is provided precisely, humanely, in solidarity, and that everyone gives its energy and motivation to it. Finally, we also expect the state, the federal government, even if each has its own powers, to pilot. I therefore count on you to pilot with the government what is truly a humanitarian emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, a few comments. In relation to living wages, Mrs Almaci says something else in the Flemish Parliament. One says this, the other says that. As mayor, I received an e-mail from the POD Social Integration last week with specific instructions. They state that beneficiaries of temporary protection are entitled to the equivalent living wage, and that that right may be opened at the time when the person concerned is entered in the Aliens Register following the issue of the temporary protection certificate. It doesn't say anywhere that rent should be deducted from that living wage in the case of collective care. We have another proposal. Nor do we want to introduce two categories of refugees. I think we should create a separate type of temporary displaced person card. With that card, someone has a right to collective care. Especially if it looks like it's going to take a long time, I'm more in favour of collective care, because non-collective care can be temporary, but in the long term collective care is better. There they get weekly money (100 euros for a family, 50 euros for a single person), children's money for the children, free education... and they can go to work. That is our proposal. According to our lawyers, it's perfectly possible to work out something like this. For me, it's not about giving people both a living wage and free housing. That needs to be clarified in detail. We will be interviewing the Prime Minister and Mrs Lalieux tomorrow to find out what instructions the municipalities will be given. Now people are knocking on the OCMW daily to ask for the living wage, and there is complete uncertainty. Some people are collectively or in people's homes, or with family and friends. What exactly are we supposed to do? What money should we pay out? We don't know. The VVSG doesn't know either. Solve that uncertainty. Choose another model, especially not for the living wage model, even if a few hundred euros is deducted from it in case of care. Finally, as far as screening is concerned, how many people have fallen by basket in terms of identification and do not turn out to be Ukrainians? I'll get that in writing. How many people have been stopped in security screening? Ten thousand of them have already been screened. What is the result of that? These are things that we could have gotten a little more insight into here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u22	On that last point, you must remain correct. If you are submitting a question concerning information on the Ukraine crisis, it is difficult for you to expect me to answer the questions you are asking in terms of numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u23	Mr Francken has indicated that he will put them in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u24	You give figures on the number of applications tout court, 9,700.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u26	Fine. Then I will put that question in writing. I didn't quite understand what you meant. You say you would have given them if I had asked them. So I'll get them. After all, it is interesting to know what came out of that. I also put a question on the screening of people who offer a house. The P.S. is talking about a moral investigation. We have been given a directive which we cannot do. That's forbidden to us, our police zone can't even do that. We can always have a social investigation conducted by the OCMW. I don't know if that's okay, but the OCMW doesn't have a visual on any convictions. For example, it does not know whether anyone was ever convicted of trafficking in human beings, pimping or domestic violence. I support the PS's request to have a directive or framework around it as soon as possible so that we can ask our police to look into it. If that goes wrong, there could be serious malhears.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u27	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed answers. I've still got a few things to write down. As far as the registration centre is concerned, I understand that the intention is to scale up to 66 points of contact, especially in Brussels. You say that the question of decentralisation is not obvious. For me, it's unclear whether it's coming or not. As far as housing is concerned, it is clear that the federal level will be responsible for crisis care and night care, but this is obviously a responsibility of the regions. You are sitting here with the Prime Ministers. I think it is indeed important that we all work together in this country to tackle this crisis properly. As far as the emergency villages are concerned, it is good that we are prepared and ready for them when we will need them. I find the whole discussion on living wages a very strange discussion. The EU Directive stipulates that social assistance must be provided. Last week we heard Jan Jambon say that it will be a win-win situation. The Ukrainian refugees will be able to work. That's right. They will have all the rights, including the right to be active in our labour market. Then the N-VA Group saw this as a win-win situation for our society. But now, a week later, they hang up a framing as if it were people who would all earn a living wage. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u28	I suspect that Mr Francken wishes to invoke a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u29	Mr President, he has also referred to Mrs Almaci, so I think I should also have the time to respond. As far as social rights are concerned, I think it is clear that we will not distinguish between Afghan, Syrian or Ukrainian refugees. Once they have their status, they have an A card and social rights. Well, nobody here has argued for free care. Anyone who keeps repeating that in his reply has not listened carefully to the reply of the Secretary of State. However, that was very clear. No one here is arguing for the combination of a living wage and free housing. People can choose whether to enter the regular home market. But because we know that this will be very difficult, we will have to look at solutions. Collective care is indeed one of the solutions. When people receive a living wage, we ask for a fair remuneration. I think this makes sense to everyone. I don't quite understand where this discussion is coming from. The N-VA calls for collective care. Are they not supposed to be able to go to friends and family? Do they have to go to collective care? That would be an unnecessary burden on our public services. I don't think that's a good way to work. It is then also up to our OCMWs to conduct social research, as is the case with other people who are entitled to a living wage. I also had questions about the action "hashtag space-free" and the care of families. I understand that a screening will be carried out by the Minister of the Interior. I think this is very good. It is a good thing that preference is given to public care first. Families should be given the opportunity to be properly informed about how they can make their home available through the notification of temporary residence. When it comes to unaccompanied minors, I agree with you, Mr Secretary of State, that we should be vigilant and, first of all, look forward to proper reception by the government. I heard stories of a single older man bringing in an underage girl. We must be vigilant in this respect. It would also be a good thing, as Mr Segers suggested, to strengthen the Voogdijk Service by hiring Ukrainians and giving them training so that they can take custody of minor refugees. I think this is a very justified concern about this group of refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u30	Mrs. Almaci has made a statement. We don't think these people can't go to work. It's good that these people can go to work. I am simply in favour of a different solution when it comes to living wages. No more or no less. You shouldn't say I'm giving a stigma or doing framing. Your party wants to give them a living wage, and I have questions about that. That may still be the case in a democracy, I hope. I have the impression I'm not alone. I have the impression that within your own government a number of people are saying the same thing. I've noticed that clearly in the last few days and hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u31	You must display that correctly. There must be no lies spread. What I am saying and what the Secretary of State has said is that no one is advocating free housing and a living wage, but this is always mentioned here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u32	Where do you get that? Who'd you hear say that? Lies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u33	Both Mr Van Langenhove and you have said that. Anyone who says that did not listen properly to the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u34	I'm just saying what the PPS Social Integration has sent me into my position as mayor. That is all I have to add. I didn't say it was about free housing and a living wage. I said the POD doesn't say anything about a deduction for those who provide shelters. Could the mayors be able to clarify this quickly, because these living wages are now being applied for and paid out? Those providing collective care are currently receiving the full equivalent of a living wage. Can we get instructions? That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u35	Are you suggesting that we take this to the Social Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u36	Yeah, sure. We will question the Minister tomorrow. She sent that instruction. However, I will not be accused here of lies and framing. This is a normal debate currently taking place in every parliament in Europe. The question is how we can properly provide these people with social assistance. That is a perfectly legitimate democratic debate. I do not have to accept the Green Group's reaction to stigmatising, framing or telling lies. I do not have to accept that, because that is not right, Mrs Platteau.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u37	Mr President, I shall go back to figures and facts, because that is what a good policy is based on. Mr Secretary of State, I have therefore requested a lot of figures, and you have, of course, given not everything, but a number of figures. I understand that this is not easy in response to an oral question at a committee meeting. At the same time, if I ask my question as a written question, then the data in a month's time will be dated again. The Commissioner-General gives us a good monthly overview of all possible statistics. Given the importance of the war in Ukraine and the consequences in Belgium, I believe that such monitoring is also necessary for anyone granted temporary protection. That is why I would like to ask you to make this data available automatically, via the CGVS website, via Fedasil or whatever. This will benefit all possible policy makers. I would also like to comment on the screening. I noted correctly that you said a screening is done by DVZ, the security agency ADIV and the federal police. That's good news. At the same time, you said that the Minister, assuming that you mean the Minister of the Interior, is preparing an instruction for the cities and municipalities. I do think it's high time we got that instruction. Last week I asked the Minister about this and, frankly, I was hoping that she could announce that she was working on it and that that instruction would be there immediately. Instead, an instruction was only sent two days after that. It merely stated that cities and municipalities should carry out screening, without any clarification. It is therefore no surprise that many different things are understood. One believes that the criminal record should be checked, another thinks that an entry into residence is meant. It is quite logical that the COC then reports that there is no legal basis for this. I found this regrettable, because some cities and municipalities have already sought to do so in the best possible way. In Ghent, for example, an administrative approach was applied, including a discussion about living conditions and possibly a place visit, supplemented by a check on the criminal record. My feeling and analysis is that there is no need to change the legal basis for this, but clarity on this in the very short term is really welcome. If you are doing that analysis, together with Minister Verlinden, and if the method of working in Ghent proves to be a good practice, then I ask that this be properly instructed, so that in other cities and municipalities the same can be done, in the interests of everyone, including the host families, by the way. I would therefore like to call for checks to be carried out in a uniform manner across the territory. This will also give you much more reassurance regarding, for example, the living wage. We have also discussed in detail the matching via the host families hashtag place free. However, it also concerns the registration of the actual situation and the registration of persons. You talked about family and friends, but to be honest, we have to admit that we don't know that. We must therefore ensure that the checks are carried out very thoroughly. To do this, there is a real need for uniformity. Many questions have also been asked about unaccompanied minors, for which you are indeed only partly competent. In your place, therefore, I will respond in part, because I have also just put the question to the Minister of Justice. I can tell you that there are already 63 descriptions of unaccompanied minors from Ukraine and that they were all accompanied and taken care of by a family member. The Voogdij Department is in the process of appointing a guardian, which has already been done in eight situations. I have also made the suggestion to surf the enthusiasm around the campaign hashtag spot-free. There is a great wave of solidarity, as in 2015. In the same way, many extra guardians could be attracted. So we need to look very closely at whether this is possible within the Ukrainian community.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u38	I'll come back to two things. Firstly, if the situation continues for a long time, we need a European distribution plan. Secondly, I am pleased that you refer to the Minister responsible for the debate on living wages, but I am also pleased that you are giving your opinion here. You're actually saying the same thing I said yesterday. Giving free housing and a living wage doesn't make any sense, and that's not possible. I will certainly put the question to Mrs Lalieux. An important word is 'equivalent'. This means 'equivalent', and that is for us free housing with pocket money, following the example of LOI support. So that's not the same as paying a full living wage. So much for our party's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u39	In De Standaard there is today an interview with an employee of Doctors Without Borders. This organisation is struggling with the double standard in dealing with the refugees in Europe. This lives among the population, but also among the employees of Fedasil. They think it's fantastic that cities and municipalities are taking off, but with them too, it tastes bad that everything is being taken out of the closet for the Ukrainians, while for the regular public there is hardly anything extra possible. This crisis shows what can be done with a good portion of political will. Today, everything is being done to meet the Ukrainian refugees with dignity. Let us continue with this political will to the ordinary reception system for asylum seekers, so that drastic measures can be taken there too. So no two sizes and two weights. However, I note that there are two measures and two weights in the treatment of third-country nationals with long-term residence permits for Ukrainians. I see no advantage in excluding them from that temporary protection status. You cited the example of a student from the United States, but what about Congolese students? Returning to Congo would be a major step backwards for their studies. Why can't they continue their studies here? They too are equally victims of this war, aren't they? Germany and the Netherlands show that this can be done, why can't it be done in Belgium? At critical times, no person or group should be discriminated against, according to Mr Grandi, High Commissioner for Refugees at the United Nations. I fully support that, and I hope you will. As far as unaccompanied minors are concerned, the structural deficits in terms of guardians and resources remain with the Voogdij Office. Thursday, this shift will stop. The workload has become untenable. I therefore continue to advise you to address the Minister of Justice and to work for a sound framework for these young people, in which the staff do not suffer from the savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, I did not have an answer to the question as to why there was no exception to the temporary protection status, since people arrived before the decision on the status was made. Why do those people who left the territory earlier, feeling that the conflict was latent, not have temporary protection status? I met people who arrived on February 18, 2022, before the conflict began, and who are therefore subject to an asylum-seeking regime. This is completely paradoxical, since they are obviously under the same conditions as their compatriots who arrived after the deadline set by Europe. It was already well known that the threats were very relevant. Should we not therefore go back at least to 1 February 2022 to include all families?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u41	That's what's actually happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u42	It was told to the family that I met earlier to follow the traditional asylum procedure. So I'll let them know what's going on. I regret, as others have done before me, that decentralization solutions seem to be abandoned. You seem to say it's technically complicated. I can hear it, but it would be a real relief for Heysel. Today, it was dry, but tomorrow, it is announced relatively soft with rain. Can you imagine spending seven to eight hours in the rain tomorrow in the day without being able to sit? That's not acceptable. There is a real need for double bites to try to find a solution for decentralization, perhaps not in the communes, but at the very least there should be some posts, as has been done for vaccination centres. I really invite you to put all your strength in this fight because this welcome is essential. People are tired of waiting and I understand them, taking into account the journey they have already made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u43	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Dries Van Langenhove and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, attached to the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the current flow of refugees from Ukraine, - having regard to the fact that the Fedasil reception centres are overcrowded - all too often with persons who do not appear to have the right to asylum at all; - having regard to the fact that, given the immense influx from Ukraine, it is more than ever necessary that every place of reception is available for genuine refugees; - having regard to the fact that non-Ukrainians will seize the opportunity to come to Europe in the wake of the Ukrainian refugee flow; - having regard to the fact that, independently of the influx of genuine refugees from Ukraine, the illegal influx from non-European countries is again peaking; asks the government - strictly restrict the granting of the new European protection status to those for whom it is intended, in particular Ukrainian citizens; - to tackle abuse and fraud in a firm manner; - take measures to repatriate third-country nationals to their countries of origin; - develop initiatives aimed at ensuring that reception - with our financial and logistical support - takes place preferably in Ukraine's neighbouring countries; - take additional measures to speed up the processing of previous asylum applications; - take far-reaching measures to reduce the influx of non-European asylum seekers - a large part of whom do not appear to have a right to asylum - in a sustainable way and to increase their outflow: . to strengthen the rules on family reunification for asylum seekers and to complete as much as possible the existing European framework in this area; . suspend family reunification for subsidiary protected persons and subsequently limit it to a strict quota; . suspend resettlement, at least as long as the asylum crisis drags on; . to launch dispatch campaigns in the top 10 countries of asylum seekers' origin directly through all possible channels, including not least social media; . finally and expedited the expansion of capacity in the closed return centres; . move towards visa sanctions against third countries which are manifestly refusing to cooperate in the fight against illegal migration and the withdrawal of their deported nationals; . linking the provision of development assistance with the willingness of states to take back illegal and criminal nationals; . call at European level for economic sanctions against these countries; . at European level to seek alliances with countries that advocate a strict migration policy and to play a leading role in strengthening policy in this area; . call at European level for a sustainable solution to the problem of illegal immigration and for the development of an improved European variant of the Australian approach to illegal immigration. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dries Van Langenhove and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for the National Lottery, Deputy to the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the current influx of refugees from Ukraine; Whereas Fedasil reception centres are overcrowded, often because of persons found not to have any right to asylum; Whereas, in view of the massive influx of refugees from Ukraine, it is more necessary than ever for every reception place to be available for genuine refugees; - Whereas non-Ukrainians will take advantage of the opportunity to come to Europe in the wake of the flow of Ukrainian refugees; Whereas, irrespective of the influx of genuine refugees from Ukraine, the illegal influx of refugees from non-European countries is again reaching its peaks; asks the government - strictly restrict the granting of the new European protection status to persons for whom this status is intended, i.e. Ukrainian nationals; - to deal appropriately with cases of abuse and fraud; - take measures to repatriate third-country nationals to their country of origin; - to set up initiatives to ensure that reception takes place preferably in the neighbouring countries of Ukraine, with our financial and logistical support; - to take additional measures to close the processing of asylum applications previously submitted in a timely manner; - to take drastic measures to reduce permanently the influx of non-European asylum seekers, the majority of whom are found not to be entitled to asylum, and to ensure that more of them leave our territory; - to tighten the rules on family reunification for asylum seekers and to comply as far as possible with the existing European framework for this purpose: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Moutquin's 55025346C, 55025353C and 55025357C are converted into written questions. Merged Questions No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 55026070 by Mrs Gilson were postponed at the request of Mrs Gilson. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Liekens's 55025382C was postponed. Mrs Van Hoof also asked her question No 55025687C to be postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Loones' 55025463C, who is not here, lapses, as there is no request for postponement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u44	There are, of course, other problems than the Ukrainian crisis. Mr Secretary of State, you recently reported on Twitter about a meeting with the French ambassador and also with the Greek ambassador on the one hand on the progress of the migration pact and on the other on secondary migratory flows, very important issues. What are the conclusions of these talks? Do you have any such meetings planned? I can imagine that there may be a number of more pressing issues at the moment, but it is important that progress is also made in these areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u45	I have very regular diplomatic talks with ambassadors and ministers. The French ambassador was only appointed at the end of 2021 and is therefore new in our country. It was therefore a first meeting. I often had good political discussions with the previous French ambassador, so it is important to continue that good understanding. We were talking about a series of bilateral and European dossiers, including Dublin transfers between France and Belgium, where covid can sometimes be an obstacle. We need to facilitate Dublin transfers and ensure their effective implementation. Furthermore, we were talking about the fight against transmigration, not only a major problem for us, but certainly also in France. Frontex is present on the French-Belgian coast, at the request of France and Belgium. In fact, the mandate of Frontex was extended not so long ago; we are on the same lines in that regard too. As far as Frontex is concerned, we must ensure that the body can continue to operate. Of course, we also discussed the French Presidency of the European Council, in particular the European Asylum and Migration Pact, and the way in which progress can be made in the dossier, which has been going on for seven years. In this context, we discussed the best strategy to convince countries of the usefulness and how we should proceed step by step. With the Greek Ambassador, I was talking about progress at European level and about the asylum pressure we experience in our two countries. In contrast to the complaint from frontline states that they have to bear more responsibility, we often point out that secondary migration is affecting us and we ask them to do what is necessary for proper screening. The discussion with that ambassador was mainly intended to foster mutual understanding of each other's situation. I understand that Greece is often under pressure. I think my Greek colleague and the Greek ambassador also understand that we are under pressure in Belgium. Proportionally, we catch a lot of people. We are partners in the migration policy to be implemented. We talked about secondary migration, fair share and Dublin transfers, important issues for us. I also have regular diplomatic contacts with other ambassadors. Since the beginning of this year I have had bilateral meetings with my Spanish, Hungarian, Dutch, Bulgarian, Georgian, Danish and Cypriot fellow ministers. Last Monday, I also addressed the entire ambassador corps of the European Union. I also had talks with the Austrian and Czech ambassadors, as well as with the Slovak consul. In addition, I regularly see my colleagues at international conferences and European meetings. In the near future, I have another meeting planned with the German ambassador. I received a message that the next Council meeting would take place on 28 March. So we can talk about it soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, has there been any mention of extending the Benelux agreement on Dublin transfers to France?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u47	That question was asked without a definitive answer. It's a new ambassador. I'll explain to him what we're doing and he'll go back to Paris with the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u48	Then we can continue to talk about this in the near future, and hopefully we can extend that agreement. You've discussed a lot of topics. Hopefully we will be able to reap the benefits of this in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Safai's 55025606C is hereby repealed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Torbars's 55025644C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Langenhove's 55025791C was added to the actua debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, as has already been discussed at a number of committee meetings, including those of 26 January, the Mayor of the city of Spa was awarded a short-term award in November 2021. It was decided that Fedasil had 48 hours to find a new shelter for 200 asylum seekers. Every day that no action has been taken on this issue is subject to a penalty payment of EUR 10,000. The decision is based on the problems in Sol Cress regarding public safety, fire safety and sanitary safety. According to the mayor, there might even have been an attempted murder among the residents. We can believe that in view of the serious riots yesterday in Poelkapelle. We understand that you have not yet made payment, because you would be in conversation with the mayor. What is the exact state of affairs in the file? Was the payment of periodic penalty payments made? How many asylum seekers are staying at the Sol Cress reception centre in Spa today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u51	Mr President, there was also a question from Mrs Jadin; a part of my reply will therefore be in French. The mayor of Spa withdrew his police order of 26 October 2021. The limit to 200 residents has therefore not been in force since 18 February 2022. The private company Svasta is still the operator of the centre. The police order of 1 October 2021, which is in force, is respected. Fedasil and Svasta are under negotiation for the resumption of the site by Fedasil. It was a question from the mayor that Fedasil would take over the center of Svasta, because Svasta did not fulfil his obligations. We are in the process of preparing for the takeover. The periodic penalty payments decided by the Court of First Instance no longer run, given that the order of 26 October 2021 was withdrawn. So we have not yet paid periodic penalty payments; the counter is no longer running, at least because the mayor has decided to withdraw his complaint for the next days, weeks or months. On 11 March 2022, the occupancy of Sol Cress' reception centre was 398 persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u52	Thank you for the information. I understand I submitted my follow-up request at the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament 55025824C and 55025825C by Mrs Jadin expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, in February of this year, Fedasil was convicted at least twice, probably more often, by the Dutch labour court in Brussels. The facts are similar in both judgments. The first sentence was about an 18-year-old Afghan who was excluded from the reception network by Fedasil for 14 days. The second sentence was about another 18-year-old Afghan who was excluded from the reception network by Fedasil for 21 days. In both cases, the Labour Court held that Fedasil's decision did not comply with the Reception Directive and with previous case law of the Court of Justice. Do you see any possibility of excluding asylum seekers from the Fedasil reception network if the facts so require? If so, in what way? Are both persons still staying in a Fedasil reception network at the moment? Are the above-mentioned judgments the only convictions in this case for 2022 or are there any other judgments, if any, unpublished?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u55	Mr Van Langenhove, it is indeed possible to temporarily exclude from the reception network a resident who commits a serious violation of the internal rules of the reception centre. This possibility is provided for in the Reception Act, which transposes the European Reception Directive. The excluded person may make a request to Fedasil if the right to a decent standard of living cannot be guaranteed. In the specific cases you mention, no request was made to Fedasil but was sent to court. The court took into account the facts, in particular their young age of 18 years and the fact that they had been in the Fedasil reception network since they were 16 years old. The judge therefore considered that in these specific cases it is plausible that the persons concerned do not have a social network to provide a decent existence outside the reception structure, so that both persons are currently also in the reception network. There can always be a specific assessment, either internally by Fedasil or by a court. However, this does not preclude the possibility of excluding persons from the reception network when the facts so require. There is another third decision condemning Fedasil to re-enter a person temporarily excluded from the reception network. It's always about convictions on one-sided petition. It is up to the judge to pronounce and I respect the separation of powers. If that's the decision that's being made, I'll take note of it. However, at the moment when people behave badly, I must be able to act. Then there are a lot of sanctions possible, from very light to very heavy. When we rule out someone, it's necessary. I take note of the judge's decision and we must, of course, organize ourselves to do so. That doesn't mean that we can't rule out people again in the next few weeks, months or years when they're misbehaving. That's only logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, you cannot, of course, amend a judicial decision, but it is a pity that the judge is obstructing a firm approach in this way. A person who has apparently been in an asylum centre between 16 and 18 years is expected to know and respect the house rules. If they do not turn out to do so, they should simply be returned, especially since there is no more war in Afghanistan at the moment. It may not be a pleasant life there, but the people must be returned. They don't have a social network here in Belgium, but they probably do in Afghanistan. Then let's help them return to their country of origin, Afghanistan. They won't put this place on stilts anymore. In Poelkapelle yesterday there were still huge riots between Afghans and Palestinians. Let us ensure that these reception centres are used for refugees who do not cause riots and violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u57	As regards the right of reception, Minister, you have repeatedly announced the so-called priority rule to the detriment of the Dublin asylum seekers, because your reception network is more than saturated and because these Dublin asylum seekers are already entitled to bed, bath and bread in another Member State. Do you still use this priority rule to the detriment of the Dublin asylum seekers? If so, is this measure often applied? If not, why don't you apply this rule anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u58	Mr Van Langenhove, as there is once again a shortage of places in the Fedasil network today, priority is indeed given to families, vulnerable people and persons applying for asylum on European territory for the first time. Single men who are not vulnerable, who have already applied for asylum elsewhere in the EU and who have in some cases even received international protection, can register on a waiting list. Fedasil invites them as soon as a place is available. They represent about 11 percent of the people who offer in the login center. Over the last few weeks, we have given effective reception to a number of people on that waiting list, but the current context must of course be taken into account. I am not saying that these people do not have the right to care, I am not contesting the European directive in this area. From a legal point of view, they are entitled to care, even if they are in a Dublin procedure. I only think it makes sense that if people have to wait for a shelter, these are the people who have already been given bed, bath and bread in another Member State. That is why we need to work with this system at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u59	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. One in ten or 11 % that is regulated, that is certainly not nothing. In that case, it seems to me that it is both your job and that of the European competent authorities to provide better relief in this respect. In this way, these people can know in advance that they are better kept in the European Member State where they are already entitled to bed, bath and bread and where they already have an asylum procedure. This way they will not put pressure on our system and thus, especially today, take the places of the many refugees who are at least more entitled to asylum. In this case, a call to provide better relief in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament 55025983C) by Mr Rigot and Mr Robles Piquer, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55026147C by Mrs Daems were already answered in the topical debate. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Smet's 55026074C lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, the long-awaited investigation of Frontex by OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, is ready. The report has not yet been made public, but was discussed in the Frontex Management Board last week, in which Belgium is represented. Some media have already reported on the suspected content of the report, in which one would point to the cover of pushbacks by leaders within Frontex. OLAF would specifically ask for sanctions against these managers. That would be the first official finding of such facts at Frontex. It would also give more credibility to the many accusations that preceded it. Did you have access to OLAF's report? Can you confirm the coverage that these are particularly serious facts, in particular the cover-up of pushbacks by managers in the organisation? Can you share the report or information from it with Parliament? Did you discuss OLAF's report last week during your meeting with the Frontex Director? Is Belgium prepared to impose sanctions on the persons concerned? Do you think that those involved can remain active within Frontex?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u62	Belgium is represented in the Frontex Management Board by the federal police, which of course falls within the competence of Mrs Verlinden. The OLAF report is a confidential report that our services have not yet been able to access. I understand that the representative of Belgium will soon be able to do so. So I can't say anything about the content. During my interview with Frontex director, Mr Leggeri, I raised a large number of issues, including the French-Belgian Frontex mission, the deployment of Frontex at the borders with Ukraine and the problem of pushbacks. The report did not come up for the reason I have just stated. The possible consequences to be linked to the report must of course be discussed in the light of the Management Board and in the light of what is actually in the report. I can't say anything about that for a while. Hopefully, we will be able to clarify this quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u63	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. Then I'll ask a new question soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, Fedasil's employees are going through a lot right now. The structural problems and the shortage of care remain. The refugees from Ukraine are now joining us. Those staff are trying to receive and guide refugees as best they can, in very difficult circumstances. There are the queues and the refusals to the Little Castle, the crowded centers, a lack of time for the residents... Moreover, there are too few employees to get all that work done. The question is how long they will last before they fail, especially now that there are additional operational problems. Workers must be supported so that they can deliver quality work in good conditions. You have already announced recruitments for the DVZ and for the CGVS. On the other hand, the budget for Fedasil's wage costs showed a slight drop, but today I was pleasantly surprised when I read in De Tijd that you continue to work on more asylum reception and staff. It would be 220 new employees for Fedasil. That is a step in the right direction. Can you be more specific about those 220 new employees? What functions are you looking for staff for? How many new recruitments are there structural? What else do you do to improve the working conditions of the Fedasil employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u65	It is true that Fedasil's employees have had to give the best of themselves over the past few months. Today, this is being asked of them again. I therefore fully agree with you that they should be supported above all in order to be able to do their work in the right conditions. We have already discussed the right contracts, the proper handling of staff and so on. The biggest problem today is the shortage of labour. This often means that employees have to join recently started reception centres, where the entire staff framework could not yet be filled in. More than one hundred vacancies are currently available at Fedasil, both for the central services and for the various reception centres. In order to fill these vacancies as soon as possible, a central web page has been created: www.werken bijasielenmigration.be. Fedasil's vacancies were also recorded there. Here's a campaign linked to putting those vacancies in the spotlight. In addition to recruiting new colleagues, a correct framework is also important. Together with the Management Committee of Fedasil, I therefore consider what framework measures are possible to give employees both stability and security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic727x.u66	The concerns of the Fedasil workers are not new. These 220 recruitments are a step in the right direction. We'll follow this closely.
