ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u1	Madam President, many measures have been introduced to mitigate the impact of the mandatory closures on businesses during the corona crisis. In fact, both regional and federally, self-employed workers and companies were able to apply for aid. Data from the Flemish Innovation and Entrepreneurship Agency show that more than 135 million euros of premiums unduly paid have already been recovered in Flanders. Our earlier written question of 6 April showed that more was recovered at the federal level, but that fines were also paid for EUR 8 million. So there is clearly a difference between the percentage of fraudulent cases at the Flemish level and at the federal level. How do you explain the difference in abuses between both levels? How will you strengthen the authority responsible for the checks on the conditions for granting the bridging right, so that a catch-up operation can also be carried out at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u2	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u3	Mrs Houtmeyers, Mr Verreyt, since the beginning of the crisis, within the social status of self-employed workers, three lines of control for the right to bridge the crisis have been organised. I've told you a lot about that first, second and third line. These three verification and control lines cooperate and regularly share information with each other. Their checks are carried out both a priori and a posteriori, in a targeted or arbitrary manner. When talking about recovered amounts, reference is made to the amounts actually recovered by the social insurance funds. Since the start of the crisis, they have recovered just over EUR 253 million. Of this amount, they have already been able to recover EUR 205 million - situation on 31 March 2022. Consequently, the ratio of the amounts recovered by the federal government to the amounts paid gives a comparable result. This is explained by the further refinement of the application procedures and directives relating to the various aid measures and the need to re-apply for certain aid measures every month, thus reducing the risk of incorrect payments and fraud. This way of working has a direct impact on any amounts to be recovered. Recently, I strengthened the third line of controls by allocating an annual structural budget of EUR 335 000, corresponding to the recruitment of five administrative staff. With this budget, the Executive Board should be able to strengthen and, if necessary, adapt the existing control mechanisms. Specific checks and investigations into possible abuses of the right of bridging shall remain in force. In 2022 - figures on 31 May - RSVZ Executive Board opened 666 investigations of this type with checks in the third line and completed 987 investigations, of which 536 with a positive result. 'positive examination' means regularisation of the right of bridging, regularisation of the connection with any increases, or still administrative fines for late connection or legal proceedings. Similarly, a number of specific controls have been carried out. In addition, I can inform you that the ECL Executive Board is currently in the process of recovering benefits unduly received from the overlapping of family expenses, as the self-employed concerned were not entitled to this. Since the beginning of the crisis until 31 March 2021, the ECL has completed 6,278 investigations. 2.565 of these studies were shown to be positive. The Administrative Fines Service of the RSVZ imposed 101 fines for late joining, linked to fraud in relation to the crisis measures. In parallel, the RSVZ cooperated with the auditorate in 456 files linked to the crisis measures, according to the figures on 31 May 2022. 173 files have been completed and 283 files are still under investigation. I have no idea of the possible legal sanctions imposed in connection with a suspicion of misuse of the temporary crisis measures. As regards the crisis measures, no extension is currently foreseen, either of the corona-dispositive or of the Ukraine-dispositive. My proposal to reform the classic bridging law will be discussed in IKW this week with a view to its early discussion in the Council of Ministers. This reform should allow the traditional right of bridging to be closer to the daily reality of the self-employed. In addition, I would also like to legally anchor a crisis hatch so that, in times of crisis, the chalk lines of a crisis benefit are clear and can be quickly activated by the government. I have received from my administration the figures relating to the number of self-employed persons who have been granted the right to bridge the crisis. I'll have it delivered to you through the secretariat of the Chamber. The distribution is always according to the type of bridging right per year. Accounting performance for the crisis bridging right exceeds EUR 3 billion for 2020; EUR 2.3 billion for 2021 and EUR 100 million for the first trimester of 2022. The RSVZ only has global figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The government has shown in the last two years that we can be very social, but I believe that we can only be social if the abuses and cases of fraud are dealt with as well. Despite the figures you mention, which are better than in the first years of the corona crisis, we cannot ignore the fact that in Flanders there has been a much faster shift and that much more potential fraud cases have been detected there. There are also comparatively more recoverys done. I believe that this is a finding that we cannot ignore. I believe that the second part of being social means that one must be socially just. I can only welcome the fact that we have to carry out checks and that we are increasing the number. You will have to do so if you want to get the figures on social and tax fraud that are included in your budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. What still worries me a little is that you have no idea of the legal sanctions. I really wonder: are there, will there be? Or can self-employed people actually get away with a refund if they have not been correct? I also wonder when we can receive the figures by e-mail? You say you will deliver them through the secretariat. But you also replied to my previous question that you would deliver them, and I still don't have them, more than a month later. Can we still get them today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u6	Normally, we were supposed to send them. Maybe there was a problem. In any case, Madam President, I can give you the figures. As far as judicial statistics are concerned, my colleague Van Quickenborne will be able to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u7	All right, minister. Then we'll transfer them. I'm sorry about the lack of organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u8	Minister, for a long time there has been talk of an improvement in the pension that can be granted to some assisting spouses. Can we expect an initiative from the government in this area? If so, when will this happen and what action will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u9	Mr Van der Donkt, on 1 April 1984 the Council of Ministers adopted a preliminary draft law amending the Law of 15 May 1984, laying down measures for the harmonization of pension schemes as regards the minimum pension of assisting spouses. The assisting spouses have only been legally able to build up their own pension rights in the social status since 2003, but the maximum status was only optional. In addition, many of them did not start building pension rights until the end of July 2005, the date on which they had to comply with the maxi-status. The fact that assisting spouses were unable to build up their own pension rights for a long time makes a difference with other self-employed persons in the main occupation. The surviving spouses born between 1956 and May 1968 will therefore not be able to perform sufficient career years under the maxi-status, apart from rights built up in other schemes, which build up pension rights, i.e. 30 years, in order to open up an individual right to a calculation based on the minimum pension, which, despite their compulsory affiliation and hence the payment of social contributions under the maxi-status, and the possible years of actual activity preceding the compulsory affiliation of the assisting spouses to the social status, for which it was not possible to build up individual pension rights. The preliminary draft law submitted to the Council of Ministers in April therefore seeks to find a solution to ensure that the abovementioned assisting spouses, who were thus obliged to comply with the Staff Regulations, have access to the minimum pension. The Council of State delivered its opinion on the draft. A second reading will soon take place in the Council of Ministers. This dossier is indeed very urgent if we want to enter into force in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. There will therefore be a second reading. You're assuming this will work out in 2023. For 2022, therefore, it is certainly no longer possible, especially since I have noted that apparently the "co-working wife" measure in the RSVZ's procurement budget has disappeared or shifted to mypension.be. So it won't be before 2022. We're looking forward to 2023, but I'm a little afraid of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u11	Mrs Leroy, with regard to your question on subjection as an independent person on a supplementary basis, I can tell you that the subjection to the social status of self-employed persons is subject to refragable benefits, which are dependent on the person who contests to provide proof to the contrary. Once INASTI receives a tax communication of income or profits from self-employed workers, as a general rule, it is obliged to ask the beneficiary of the income about their origin. Taxation is therefore not automatically established but after a case-by-case examination as a result of the tax communication. Where evidence is provided that the activity in question is not an independent activity, no notice of membership in a social insurance fund shall be given. Members of the Arts Labour Commission will not be subject to the social status of self-employed workers if the following conditions are met. Indeed, I indicated during the exchange of views that we had on Friday that it is very likely that they will not be subject to the social status of self-employed workers at INASTI because it is an internal organ of the SPF. You ask me what elements will be deployed to guarantee that. The concept of independent professional activity requires the fulfilment of certain conditions which do not appear to be all present concerning the activity within the Arts Labour Commission. Thus, the members of this commission will sit collegially in an assembly, an administrative authority created by law, managed and controlled by the SPF like any other internal organ of the SPF, without its own legal personality. The mandates will therefore not be exercised in a private capacity but as part of a public service mission internal to the SPF Social Security. The situation would be quite different if the current activity were to be carried out, for example, by means of a framework agreement following a call for applications to collaborate with third parties, undertakings in natural persons with their own legal personality, to carry out the legal task. With regard to the qualification and taxing of tokens of presence, this falls within the exclusive competence of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u12	Minister, thank you. I'll relay the conditions. You're talking about "high probability." I do not know if this means that this will have to be confirmed. I imagine that, when we know the very precise outlines of the organization of the commission, this should be very clear, so that this issue does not come back continuously. I imagine that it is not a very complicated exercise to add it as it is in the law or in the explanatory statement - I do not know very well how. In my opinion, this is an issue that may come back regularly and the framework that you define, once confirmed, will be interesting; you have to make sure that you never find yourself in trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u13	To be clear, and since we share the same objective, I propose that this be included in the explanatory memorandum. I think that this amendment will make things completely clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic846x.u14	Thank you.
