ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, a total of 5,340 persons were checked back to their country last year. 1,984 of them did so under duress. That number is well below the level of 2019 and that figure was already the lowest in 10 years. When you arrived, you said that it was your ambition to boost the return rates. Last year, 1,299 criminals were also sent back to their country of origin. Of them 306 were forced out of the country and refused to take a PCR test, which in many cases is mandatory today. You announced that you would work out a solution by requiring the PCR test. Mr Secretary of State, how many criminals were sent back to a Schengen country or non-Schengen country in 2021? I have a similar question for the migrants. How many were sent back to a Schengen country or a non-Schengen country? What timing do you propose for the introduction of a mandatory PCR test? It seems challenging to me to impose such an obligation with legal certainty. Do you think it's realistic to introduce that obligation? Do you have a plan B in hand? When you took office, you made it very clear that you wanted to increase the return rates. You said your policy could be dealt with accordingly. We are not yet at the final stage, but the interim results do not look very promising. What conclusions do you draw from that? What additional initiatives will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u2	Mr Roggeman, I have said it before in committee, but I will repeat it for you: the federal Parliament is more accommodating than the Flemish Parliament. A strict chairman will wipe out questions in a meeting there, and they will not be dealt with there - and they will convert them into written questions. We in the Federal Parliament are strict, just but humane, as with migration policy, and so your question is still being addressed. I will answer your questions about the number of returners, detailed by country, criminal and non-criminal in 2021 and previous years, and about the PCR tests here - for that I need a separate committee meeting and I urge you to submit them in writing. We are working on a number of measures that improve the return, which is today hampered by covid, as well as the introduction of the PCR test obligation, which is often refused. Then one cannot use the excuse of covid not to return when one has to. The Foreign Affairs Department and my cabinet have been working for a few weeks to make that obligation legal. You are also right to state that the obligation must be legally well-founded if it is to be maintained. to make sure it stays standing. We hope to be able to conclude this work quickly. You also asked a number of questions about the return policy over the past ten years and concluded from your comparison that the lowest figures were recorded in the last year. In the last ten years, I don't think there's been a covid. Of course, we need to discuss migration policy, but in every debate we need to base ourselves on the right context. The questioners must not lose sight of the fact that covid has influenced the return figures, with which I do not want to have said that the policy must not be taken into account, Mr Roggeman. Those policy actions include the fact that 30,000 people are no longer given an order to leave the territory without succession. We provide individual guidance. We have recruited 700 additional staff throughout the asylum and migration chain. Unfortunately, the migration service has been saved in recent years under the guise of better policies. This has led to a slower handling of the files and a less good follow-up of those who had to return. Another element of our migration policy is the regional return agencies, which are spread across the country, which means that we have to follow individuals who otherwise only have to collect a piece of paper in Brussels, individually. In our up-and-coming return policy, a lot of DVZ return escorts work, also in prisons, with ten additional DVZ employees sending the criminals who are not supposed to be on our territory back from prison. Despite covid, we managed to keep that figure at least stable thanks to that investment. So these investments are important. It's hard to tell how much longer covid will make itself feel, because I'm not Professor Van Ranst. I can only invest as a policy-maker and Secretary of State responsible for asylum and migration in personnel and in measures that are necessary to improve return policy. In any case, we are doing a lot more in this area than we have done in the past, with the use of 20% more staff and with wider measures than the issue of a piece of paper to those concerned. By the way, we maintained the measures at the time when your party was part of the then government. Nothing has changed. We have, however, taken additional measures. That is what a policy leader should do, taking into account the context. We're working hard on that. Written questions on the figures may be interesting to assess the impact of COOVID-19. Should we have to work on other aspects to improve policy, aspects that have perhaps not been sufficiently worked on in recent years, let us certainly do so together and explore how we can send some foreigners back in a humane and correct way, if we have to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You very much like to refer to the rules that apply in the Flemish Parliament. It seems as if you are beginning to know the rules of the Flemish Parliament better than those of the Chamber, where you do have to answer. Although I do not want you to read tables and figures here, there is nothing to stop you from making those figures available to the committee secretariat or the Registry of the Chamber. As a result, oral questions to comprehensive data could be easily answered. I'd be happy to give that to you for future similar cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u4	Mr Roggeman, the timing is, of course, slightly different. You have until one day before the committee meeting to submit questions for a country-by-country review on return. There are great people working at the Foreign Office. They are geniuses, but expect them to answer your written questions within 24 hours, would require magic, let alone submit them more than 24 hours in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u5	Mr. Secretary of State, I don't expect you to. I submitted my question two weeks ago, which seems to me to be more than sufficient time to draw up a detailed answer. You outline the importance of the right context. I agree with that, which is why I would also like to see the figures published in the press contextualised. You would very much like to refer to the corona crisis as a difficult factor in returning to the country of origin. This is certainly the case for certain countries, not to mention Morocco, which had for some time introduced an entry ban. But such measures were not at all applicable to Schengen countries. That is why I think that is a very relevant aspect, and I would like to hear more from you. As you have suggested, I will do so for your convenience by means of a written question. You're saying that the corona crisis has thrown sooty into the food. I don't expect you to be able to predict the end of the corona crisis, but I'll stick to your words. When you took the oath and became part of the government, the corona crisis was already underway. Now, after you expressed the ambition to increase the return rates and do better than your predecessors, where we were even allowed to pay you, you cannot say that the plan is not working because of the corona crisis. That kite won't fly. I will then submit a written question. Then we can look at the return policy within the context, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u6	I'll join the Secretary of State. In the Rules of Procedure, it is clear that no figures can be requested by means of an oral question. Most MEPs use the instrument conveniently by adding general or substantive questions to it. Nothing prevents you from submitting written questions. At the same time, I must admit that many ministers are very late in answering the written questions, forcing Members to turn the written questions into an oral question. So the knife cuts both ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u7	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in September 2020, following the fire at the Moria camp in Greece, you announced that you would welcome, and I welcome this decision, 150 applicants for international protection as well as 12 MENA. If the MENA did arrive in Belgium at the end of 2020, at the beginning of 2021, you said you hoped to welcome the other 150 people in the first half of the year. In September 2021, you announced that 34 of the 150 planned people had arrived in our country, that the transfer of 43 others was planned and that the records of 55 people were being processed. There were therefore 18 places still to be filled for relocation. Unfortunately, it would appear that the situation of migrants benefiting from this relocation agreement is not making progress and that Belgium has therefore not yet fulfilled its host commitment. Mr Secretary of State, what are the recent advances in this relocation agreement? Have the 43 people whose transfer was planned arrived in Belgium? Have the 55 files in processing progressed? Were the 18 missing people found? What are the factors that slow down the implementation of this agreement? How to avoid them next time? Indeed, in a previous question, you mentioned in particular the fact that bureaucracy or administration, including on the Greek side, was complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u9	Mrs Platteau, the services report to me that they have a technical problem, which does not allow a reference to the question submitted this afternoon. Can you still give it to me orally? Otherwise it will not be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u10	Mr President, I tabled that question a while ago and indeed I do not have access to the system of oral questions, QOMV. I'm trying to find the question on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u11	I shall now give the floor to Mr Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have noted in some media that Greece does not properly manage migrants entering its territory. In your view, this would lead to migrants coming to other European countries, particularly Belgium, where reception policy seems more humane. As my colleague, Simon Moutquin, has also pointed out, the Aegean islands remain, however, an area of confinement subject to national and international issues that do not only concern migration, but also, and above all, a policy of rejection, fear and deterrence. Greece is, of course, not a welcome model today. Secretary of State, on what figures do you base your statement? It seems that those of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) do not take Belgium as the fourth most asylum-seeking country, but – I quote in order – Germany, Spain, France, Greece and Italy. Can you give me any clarifications on this? What is the position of other European countries regarding the management of migrants by Greece? How can Greece excel in its mission when the European Union has established a common European asylum system based on the countries that form the Union's external border, including Greece and Italy, which are also experiencing difficulties, the main burden of receiving migrants who wish to seek international protection in Europe? Are you planning relocation missions in order to evacuate the island of Lesbos and to help these migrants who are in humanly tragic situations, out of solidarity with Greece, but also out of international solidarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u13	As in our country, children are subject to compulsory schooling in Greece, regardless of their nationality or legal status, but in practice a large group is excluded, namely the children of refugees in the Greek camps. There are about 10,400 children living in refugee camps on the Greek islands, of which less than 15% have access to formal education. That is a serious violation of Article 28 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, the Greek Government has received EUR 3.45 billion from the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund to manage migration. Clear objectives on education for refugees' children were also mentioned. In addition, she received more than one billion euros from various European education funds. Despite the many resources, the government shows no or too little intention to improve the training of refugees. The covid pandemic has also made access to children's education even more difficult, as children cannot receive online education in the camps. Unicef has repeatedly warned against the major consequences of the lack of access to education for children. Their well-being, development and future prospects are at risk. The children in the Greek camps are left to their fate and we can never accept this. Did you mention the lack of access to education in the Greek refugee camps in the Council of Ministers or in international fora? How do you intend to exert pressure on the Greek Government about the right to education? In June, you indicated that 72 applicants for international protection would be received from the Greek camps in Belgium. What is the state of play on this matter? How many children have already been taken care of in Belgium? Are there still children waiting for relocation, who are currently excluded from education? You announced a five-point plan to stop transiting asylum seekers. Among other things, you want to enforce the Dublin rules better. Does this also apply to children who do not have access to education in Greece?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u14	I know that the situation in Greece is not easy. That's also why my first foreign trip to Lesbos went. I was there in June 2021, together with the Foreign Minister. We have visited, among other things, a reception centre and a school there, and I have spoken with the Minister responsible for migration and integration. I have also spoken with a number of NGOs working on educational projects, which make it possible for children to still take lessons in regular schools. The Reception Directive makes it very clear that children receiving reception in the context of an application for international protection should have access to education, fortunately. For years, Belgium has been advocating the strict application of European rules in this area, so that Dublin transfers can continue. The current French Presidency has put the correct and uniform application of the asylum rules on the agenda as a measure to be taken in the context of the gradual approach to the European Migration Pact, with the big package and the small packages. The French think they can succeed with a step-by-step approach and we encourage them to do so. This approach should also restore confidence between Member States in order to give fresh impetus to the negotiations on the migration pact. Following the fire in the centre of Lesbos in September 2020, the Commission set up a task force to set up, together with the Greek authorities, a pilot project for reception that fully complies with the rules and could serve as a model. Belgium participates in this task force and contributes to the improvement of reception. We can all believe that reception needs to be improved, but Member States must also understand that they have their responsibilities in this. If Greece decides not to let children go to school anymore, and as a result we cannot make Dublin transfers to Greece, the primary responsibility for this lies with Greece. This must ensure that European standards are respected for children who are in an asylum procedure, whether or not they are with their parents. If they don't, there's gonna be a race to the bottom. More and more countries start to think that the pressure on their country will be reduced if they no longer provide education for these children, after which the pressure will be on another country. In this respect, the Belgian Government must ensure that these European quality standards are respected by all. After the fire in the center in Moria a project has been set up. In July and September 2021 a total of 27 minor children were able to come to Belgium, together with their families. At the moment 31 children are still waiting whose relocation has been approved to come to Belgium together with their family. These families are not sheltered in the shelter camps on the islands, but have already been transferred to the region of Athens to make their transfer easier. The intention is to carry out those relocation transfers as soon as possible, taking into account the available reception sites in the reception network. Mr. Rigot referred to the administrative burden that is often experienced when trying to make transfers as quickly as possible. It's true, it's a frustration. Mr. Moutquin also mentioned it. A relocation in the context we have experienced must be possible quickly. The fact that this is not possible is just as frustrating to me as you are. As for the commitment to relocate up to 150 people from the Greek islands following the fire at the Moria camp, Belgium gave Greece its green light to relocate 120 people. Among them, 43 people were. The operational process is not always smooth. A first obstacle concerns the difficult administrative treatment in Greece. The proposals of beneficiaries by Greece are sporadic and irregular and in the meantime some applicants have been granted international protection in Greece. Logically, when one waits so long before being relocated, the case is already being dealt with by Greece. Due to the saturation of the host network in Belgium, the transfers planned for November and December 2021 have been postponed to 2022. In 2022, the reception situation in Belgium is what it is and you know it quite well. With regard to 2022, Belgium will make every effort to complete the transfer of the remaining persons; 77 persons already targeted have received the agreement for a transfer to Belgium. The ad hoc relocation from Greece presented too many obstacles and its process was far too cumbersome in terms of selection and administration. The traditional position adopted by Belgium is that relocation can be an important instrument, but must be part of a more structural solution in the negotiations on the European Pact. Always moving to ad hoc relocation agreements will not solve the structural problem facing the European Union. A balance must be struck between the border Member States and the solidarity of others. The Pact must provide for screening with external border controls and a much faster procedure for everyone to receive a response as quickly as possible. In addition, we must work to improve the return of those who are not entitled to protection. It is not for me, Mr Rigot, to supplement or interpret the individual position of the other Member States. What is known, I believe, is that the Member States of destination have for some time been calling for reform of the asylum system, for equivalent reception standards and for European support to be used to accommodate asylum seekers. Mrs Platteau referred to the three billion invested by the European Union in Greece. When a certain amount is invested in a country, it is expected that this country will use these means to ensure that children go to school, that parents are supervised in the best possible conditions. If that's not the case, there's a problem. I come to the question of asylum pressure. Mr Rigot, you referred to the main burden on Greece and Italy. This can be discussed in terms of absolute figures. In terms of proportional figures, I must contest. If we take the relative figures, according to the data of the European Asylum Support Office (EASO), our country is between 4th and 6th place according to the calculation method and the reference period. These are figures per capita. Of course, Belgium is smaller than Greece. If we take Greece, of course, the big countries will always have more asylum seekers than a small country like ours. In a proportional way, I have already repeated in this committee that compared with Italy, for example, the comparison goes quite the other way. The burden is on the Belgium side much more than on Italy. These are not figures that can be relativized, especially when we know that many applicants already have procedures elsewhere. Belgium makes its fair share, and even more. We call on the other Member States to do at least the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, this will be my only question today because I am going to attend a welcoming committee of the Egyptian dictator, Mr al-Sissi, who is visiting Brussels. There is much to be said in terms of migration policy and dialogue with people such as President al-Sisi. As regards your answer, it is important for us, as environmentalists, to talk about a European solidarity migration pact, and not about a European migration pact that legalises breaches of international law. One answer to this problem is safe and legal ways. In particular, the government agreement provides for the possibility of realising relocation. I agree with you when you question the three billions paid to Greece, especially since many asylum seekers are in a situation of material deprivation in Greece. Once recognised, they find themselves on the street, without work, without help, etc., which further complicates the debate on reception and the people who are already registered elsewhere, since the return to Greece is sometimes dangerous for their survival. It is therefore essential to discuss the use of these three billion. Another aspect of safe and legal pathways is resettlement. It's not the same file, but I find that relocation and relocation have the merit of avoiding the networks of smugglers. We are at 975 people resettled, which is very close to the objectives of the previous government of 1,000 people. It is good news that we can achieve safe and legal pathways such as resettlement. I'll ask you about the rest of the cases in Greece in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, I fully understand your position on the need to know how Greece uses the resources allocated to it. You are also right when you say that Belgium has a mission of solidarity, which it assumes in many respects, particularly in the relocation programme. We must continue to bring Belgium's words and tell your European colleagues that they have their share of responsibility and their duty of solidarity. They must take on part of the migration issue, as we are doing in Belgium, and this is not the case at the moment. When I see the European Migration Pact that President Macron wishes to propose during the French Presidency of the European Union, I am not reassured. You will have to fight to tell your European colleagues that there is a need for a common solidarity and approach, a hand-stretched approach, not a rejection, a withdrawal on oneself and a rejection of solidarity, contrary to what this future migration pact promises. I therefore hope that it is in this sense that you will fight in the coming months to bring the words of a united, responsible and European Belgium to the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. You are referring to the situation you yourself saw on the Greek islands. You have spoken with the Minister and with the NGOs working on educational projects. You call it a center, but I prefer to use the word camp to describe how people live there. With these questions I would like to draw particular attention to the situation of the children present there. I myself spoke with officials from the Education Department of the Greek government. The situation is not good at all. These people do their utmost to enable these children to have the right to formal education, but they are opposed, sometimes also by local authorities. It's really not obvious there. The great tragedy is that we're wasting a lot of talent there. I have spoken with children and young people who have been in such a camp for years and have not had a chance to develop for years. That is a tragedy that we absolutely must do something about. Of course, the covid pandemic didn't do the right thing, which was the perfect excuse to keep more children out of class. I fully agree with you that European policy must not become a race to the bottom. It also shows the relevance of my question. We must ensure that the resources that Europe spends in other Member States on migration are also used for the purposes for which they are intended, just as we must respect the rules when we get resources from Europe. I'm glad you're supporting this. As far as relocation is concerned, you say that 27 children have already come here and that 31 will soon be coming with their families. We must do everything we can to meet the commitments made in relation to relocation. I want to support you in that. You have also referred to NGOs in Greece working voluntarily for educational projects. In fact, this is not a task for NGOs, but for formal education where children should be able to go. Now we see NGOs filling the gap and doing the minimum in the camps to give children a day's spending and to make them learn. We are now seeing that the Greek Government is taking a very aggressive approach to NGOs and making it increasingly difficult for them to be active in refugee camps. Legislation is becoming stricter and stricter. We must also be vigilant about this and stop the race to the bottom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, when I recently wanted to visit the closed centre of the DVZ in Bruges as part of my parliamentary audit mission, I heard that a visit was not possible, because unfortunately that centre was also not spared from the fifth corona wave. Several residents would have been infected and all residents had to be quarantined. External visitors were therefore not welcome. What are the quarantine rules in the closed centres at the moment? When do residents have to quarantine? How does that work out? How long does such a quarantine take? In what cases is the quarantine extended? Based on what parameters is it decided to close a closed center for external visitors? Should the centre in question report that to the DVZ? Were there any signs of contagion among the staff of the closed center in Bruges? What impact does such an infection wave have on the functioning of such a center? Were any infections detected in other closed centers? In which centers and how many infections exactly? Is it proportionate that NGOs or volunteers do not have access to the closed centres if infections were detected? What are the rules for this? My question was tabled before the new sanitary measures became known. When will external visits be possible again in the closed centre of Bruges?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u19	Since the start of the covid crisis, the closed centres of the DVZ, like all other institutions, have strictly complied with the rules of the WHO, CPT and Sciensano, which apply to residential collections. They do so to protect the health of both residents and employees. As soon as a resident has symptoms and positive tests, the cohabitants from the same wing are placed in preventive quarantine and subjected to a PCR test. The covidpositive residents are placed in ten-day isolation, while the negative tested residents remain quarantined until a second negative test, five days later. Residents who now show symptoms are re-tested and, if necessary, join the positive residents. Therefore, a preventive quarantine of a negative resident lasts at least six days, only if the second test, on day five, was also negative and if there were no more infections within the group between testing by negative residents. If infections are detected in between, the preventive quarantine shall be extended. External visits to the centre are possible, but without contact with the residents. In order to guarantee the right to legal assistance, lawyers who wish to do so may visit their clients, while respecting sanitary measures. To protect the health of residents, staff and visitors, it is not appropriate to make many movements through the center with residents in isolation or quarantine. Moreover, it is practically impossible to organise this in a safe manner. Therefore, visits to residents by other than lawyers during the period of isolation or quarantine are postponed as far as possible until after isolation or quarantine. I am glad that we have made that decision. In this way we have been able to avoid many dramas in our closed centres and there were no major outbreaks in most closed centres. Strict monitoring of sanitary measures is in the interests of everyone's health, including those detained there in the context of return. In all closed centers we recorded infections, including with the staff, and thus also in Bruges. The numbers of infections are similar to those generally seen by the Belgian population. DVZ employees working in the centres are also on the loose and therefore have as much chance of being infected as others. This has, of course, had an impact on the overall return policy over the last two years. There are infected people and quarantine wings had to be opened to place people in quarantine, which has an impact on capacity. There were also infections among residents of the closed centres: 78 infections in 2021 and 26 infections in 2020. You have asked a number of other questions. They must be submitted as a written question. Visit to the residents is once again possible, as soon as the group is out of isolation, provided that a negative quick test and wearing a FFP2 mask is performed. As long as residents are positive or in preventive quarantine, it is operational and medically irresponsible to facilitate meetings with residents. In any case, I hope that we can now switch to code orange and then to code yellow. That will also have an impact on the visits. I am very pleased with your efforts to visit the closed center in Bruges. In committee, I have already invited all committee members to visit the various closed centres in our country. They all have their own characteristics. This can contribute a lot to subsequent debates on forced return and how the employees of the DVZ are doing a good job in the closed centres. The latter is worth a word in itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We must indeed visit the closed centres in order to learn about the operation of DVZ on the ground. I have already visited two centres myself and I must say that the DVZ staff have received me very well. I'll try to reschedule and stop by. I also hope that code orange will make more possible and that we will soon be free of corona contamination. It is, of course, important to use the quarantine measures with caution. The possibility of having contact with the outside world must always remain guaranteed for the residents. I am also looking forward to the answers to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55024802C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, others often spoke about it, but you are also working on a new Migration Code. A first important hurdle has now been taken. On Friday, 4 February, the Council of Ministers reached agreement on the guidelines on the basis of which this new Migration Code will be established. Now the experts, your cabinet and the administration can start drafting and writing the texts. The objectives are clear, namely to ensure legal certainty, to eliminate inconsistencies in the foreign law and to increase the legibility of the legal texts. In this way, we need to be able to do even better work on a firm but humane policy on asylum and migration. Mr Secretary of State, could you clarify the guidelines validated by the Council of Ministers? What are the established principles with which we will now continue to work? What exactly does the progress of the work look like? How will you further inform Parliament about the progress of the work? When will you come to the Chamber with a first version of your design?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, my group is also looking forward to the coming Migration Code. On Friday 4 February 2022, you informed the general public that the architecture of the new Migration Code had been approved by the Council of Ministers. We have already asked a lot of questions about this in committee, but now is the time. You have already made it clear to us that with the new Migration Code you want to achieve a more efficient, clearer and faster foreign law. Could you give us a little more insight into the architecture of the new Migration Code? Can you outline a timeline of the course? When, for example, will you come out with a first design? Will you work in stages by subject or would you like to bring out a design for the entire code?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u24	Colleagues, on 4 February the Council of Ministers effectively adopted the guidelines for the Migration Code. These guidelines have been drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the expert committee which I have set up and in close consultation with the bodies within my competence. This new architecture indicates the direction for the Migration Code and the principles we will apply in the further writing process. There were a lot of people involved in that writing process. We have had a lot of people participate to gather as much information as possible, to ensure that the Migration Code becomes clearer, faster and more efficient. The Migration Code will include both the current Aliens Act of 15 December 1980 and the Reception Act of 2007. The government agreement states that the Migration Code should ensure better readability, less inconsistencies and more legal certainty. That is what we will do with these lines of action. Specific guidelines have been drawn up for readability. We are committed to a clear, logical and accessible structure that we have established in the meantime. This means a codification of the current rules, with clear language and coherent terminology of great importance. For less inconsistencies, we look at internal coherence. I have spoken a few times about articles of law referring to other articles that no longer exist. Those articles need to be eliminated. The texts must also be consistent with international and European law and relevant case law, in so far as this is not yet the case. For greater legal certainty, we aim to make the conditions of residence and the procedures to be followed transparent and to develop them clearly in the law, with clear modalities, so that it is clear and clear what the rules are for both the administration and the migrant and the persons who would assist him. The role of each of them should be more clearly described in the law. We want to invest in a thorough and quality research of a request to stay in Belgium, with clear forms, good information, customer-oriented services and so on. We want to slow down repeated requests that do not add decisive new elements. We adapt the procedure so that those who have the right to stay can enjoy it as soon as possible and those who do not meet the condition of return can be accompanied, voluntarily if possible, forced if necessary. This return must also be carried out within a clear legal framework, and that too will be clearly stated in this law. For further work, we have put together a number of thematic work packages that will be discussed by the committee in the coming months. The administrations will provide legal texts for this. It is effectively intended to discuss these packages individually within the government and systematically forward them to the Council of State for advice. A number of work packages are now being treated as a priority, such as international protection. These are things that are often simpler. This is purely a matter of codification. After all, they are already well defined in current foreign law. That will make our operation easier. Reception, access to the territory, short stay, residence of Union citizens and their family members, long stay, return, appeal procedures and so on are all issues that are dealt with separately and that need to go through the whole process as soon as possible. It will not be easy to put the Migration Code to Parliament for a split vote, as many elements are linked. In any case, it is my duty to give you more insight into the concrete legislative texts that we must then have put in place in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, 2023 would be a great timing. That speed sounds like music to me, on the one hand speed for people who have rights and on the other hand speed and clarity for people who have to return and for their guidance. I look forward to it. I'm glad you're taking this up as Secretary of State, which didn't happen before. I wish you every success and will try to follow it through this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, I didn't attend law school very often, but when I was there, I sometimes noticed the frustration of the professor who had to observe that in the legal texts written by professionals there were some serious errors, sometimes even camels of error. The lesson that can be learned from this is that the more the eyes are on these legal texts, the less there is a chance of errors, inconsistencies and contradictions. I therefore believe that it is best to involve Parliament, the lawyers and the academics as soon as possible in order to ensure that no small mistakes have been made. This transparency is very important to me. Hopefully, by 2023, we will gain more insight into this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, on 1 February we questioned you about the five undocumented persons who started a short-term proceedings against you. In the meantime, my question has been overtaken by current events, but I would like to give you a chance to explain a little more about the arguments with which you have won the case. I think it would be interesting to discuss this briefly in committee as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u28	Thank you, Mr van Langenhove, for giving me that opportunity. In the meantime, the judge held that the demands of the five former hunger strikers were unfounded. The main demands of those involved were to make further decisions on the ex-hunters' files and to cancel negative decisions in their files, arguing that I would have made promises that I would not have kept. The judge clearly didn't follow them. In concrete terms, it means that, together with my administration, I can continue to deal with the various applications that have been submitted in the way that we always do. Each dossier is examined individually, with all the elements being taken into account, which is a good thing. In this way, everyone will be clear about the future in the short term. That is also the most humane way of working. We have therefore invested heavily in our services, including cell 9bis, in order to be able to deal with the many files quickly. In any case, the possibility of appeal remains. I can only hope that the peace will return. I do not think anyone, not even the people without papers, would benefit from getting papers through a legal battle. We will continue to deal with the files individually. In any case, the judge's judgment that the claims were unfounded was reassuring to me, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u29	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, which I fully agree with. I hope that you will also translate those words into practice. In any case, a very dangerous precedent has been avoided here, namely that it would be possible to enforce rights on the basis of a false promise you would have made. Not only is it important not to give in to this blackmail, it is also important to give in to it. In some cases, these consequences will be an expulsion. You say that it is very important to give clarity to those involved. We agree with that, but let it also be clear that when they are deported, when they are given an order to leave the territory, they must be followed and that otherwise there will be forced expulsion. Here too, there is a real need for clarity in this country, and I hope that you will take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, on 1 February we questioned you about some of the leaders of the Groupe Islamic Compattant Marocain. That network was co-responsible for, among other things, the quadruple train attack that cost 191 people their lives in 2004. We provided you with a list of a number of terrorists, as far as the names are concerned, I would like to refer you to my written question. My first question concerns residence procedures. You said that one person is still in an appeal procedure. Which person exactly is it and on what grounds are you trying to put an end to the right of residence of this person? Secondly, we understand that one person from this list has been given an order to leave the territory. Which person is involved and on what grounds was his stay terminated? What concrete measures will you take to implement this order effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u31	Mr Van Langenhove, I regret that you do not bother to read the names this time. I thought that was brought in a very nice way last time. At the last committee meeting, I did indeed provide comprehensive information on the persons you listed. You are now asking me to specifically mention the names of the persons who are specifically concerned. I hope you understand that I cannot give you details, as it concerns confidential information from individual files, which are being followed up by our security services. I can assure you that our security services will do everything in their power to follow people very closely. I would also like to make every effort to conclude the necessary better return agreements with the countries of origin. We have rightly discussed this many times in this committee, and there is still a lot of work to be done. I can tell you that I am certainly doing everything in my power to have better return agreements. Diplomatic and operational work is under way in our country on the final stage of migration policy, in particular return. However, I cannot go into the substance of the dossiers because of the confidentiality of that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Allow me to be a little surprised at the fact that you often communicate in the media about certain expulsions and certain steps you take against hate preachers and so on, press conferences are being organised on this subject, but when it comes to a number of terrorists, some of whom are apparently still in Belgium and some of whom cannot be deported and appealing against your administration, there are apparently no names. I find that somewhat bizarre. You say that you are working hard on the readmission or take-back agreements, but unfortunately hard work will not be enough. In human history, there have been a lot of people who have worked hard, but have achieved nothing. Of course, we must also come up with a concrete plan and put everything on the table to enforce these read mission agreements, but I fear that there are still too many taboos that stand in the way of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, from the beginning of this year Fedasil has revised its criteria for granting aid to voluntary returners. For example, the reintegration budget is drastically increased. Nowadays, people from countries previously subject to visa requirements may also be eligible for a re-installation premium. This enlargement is in addition to the increase in the amount of return to visa-free countries, which now amounts to EUR 350 per adult. The additional reintegration budget will be introduced to the tune of EUR 1,000 per family. This is on top of the reformed basic reintegration budget of EUR 1,000 per adult and EUR 500 per child. On top of that there will be another 1,500 euros per family. In other words, a premium of EUR 5,000 or more is easy for a typical family. In the past, there have been repeated cases of fraud involving premiums and the use of these funds, with lower amounts. It therefore seems important to me to be vigilant. Where did this increase in the re-installation premium come from? How do you motivate that? What are the reasons for granting a re-installation premium to non-visa travellers, such as Union citizens or citizens of Kosovo? Do you think that's an appropriate measure? These people can receive the premium here, return to their country of origin and get back on the plane to Zaventem the next day. Is that a good idea? In what circumstances can Fedasil also provide reintegration support to returners from visa-free countries? This would be because of the vulnerability, but how is it defined and defined? What are the reasons for eliminating the difference in the amount between the applicants for international protection in proceedings or without the expiry order, those without legal residence who have been produced and those without legal residence who have never started proceedings? What is the reason for granting all families with underage children an additional reintegration budget of EUR 1,000? I would have liked to know what the estimated cost of these measures is. Do you think this will provide the right incentives for voluntary return? Finally, how will you monitor the prevention of fraud? The amounts are increasing. Does this also mean that control will increase, or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, Fedasil has indeed adapted the criteria for aid in the event of voluntary return. Those adjustments shall apply to all returners with their departure date from 1 January 2022. In addition to the increase in the amounts paid, it also highlights the fact that returners from non-visa countries are also eligible for a re-installation premium. Another striking element is that an additional reintegration budget of EUR 1,000 per family is allocated to all third country families, regardless of their origin in a country which is subject to a visa requirement or not. We ask ourselves a number of questions. The impact of the increase in the re-installation premium for returners from visa-free countries, on the one hand, and the introduction of a lower re-installation premium for nationals from non-visa-bound countries, including EU citizens, on the other. The basic reintegration budget remains, in principle, reserved for third-country nationals from visa-free countries. Exceptionally, however, when Fedasil approves this, returners to visa-free countries may also receive reintegration support as a function of their vulnerability. What criteria are used to determine this vulnerability? Why is an additional reintegration budget of EUR 1,000 per family allocated to all families with underage children? Do you not fear that the above-mentioned scheme will create a suction effect, in particular for nationals of non-visa-based countries, but also outside? Finally, what guarantee is there that these returnees will not return to Belgium, especially in the case of non-visa countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u35	Mr Roggemann, Mr Van Langenhove, on the return policy, I think that we in this committee agree on few things as much as on the frequently used phrase: 'Voluntary if possible, forced if necessary'. Of course, it prefers a voluntary return, not only because it is more humane, but also because it ensures a sustainable return that is also cheaper for the government. The average cost of forced return is about 12,000 euros per person due to detention. Those aren't my words. It is the Bossuyt committee that laid it down in the previous legislature. Every person who is sent back voluntarily is not only good for the return policy, but also for our budget. Except there was still a big difference between word and deed. There is a lot of untapped potential for voluntary return. That is why I was working on an action plan 'voluntary return', just like we are working on forced return and the additional staff that has already entered the service. One of the elements of this plan, in addition to better reaching and accompanying the target group, was to review the re-installation premiums. The re-installation premiums have not changed since 1984. Everyone in this room had not yet been born, except for the chairman, and perhaps the interpreters and the staff. I don't know how much a loaf of bread cost back then, but at least it'll be less than today. The fact that the amount is indexed makes sense to me. It was simply no longer adapted to current realities in the countries of origin. It is therefore not a drastic increase, but an indexation which seemed necessary. Not all countries make the difference between visa-free and visa-free countries. Countries such as Germany give the same support to foreigners returning to visa-free countries as those returning to visa-free countries. For me, however, this remains an important distinction, in order to avoid abuse. So Belgium is not abandoning this and there is still a distinction between how we deal with visa-free and visa-free countries. However, persons returning to non-visa countries will receive a limited re-installation premium of 50 euros to meet the first basic requirements on departure. It is therefore made as low as possible and too low to create an abuse carousel, for which we must pay effective attention. The estimated annual additional cost based on the 2021 figures for the re-installation premiums for both visa-free and visa-free countries is therefore EUR 113,000. Building on current policies, Fedasil and its partners will continue to be able to provide reintegration support to returners from visa-free countries in certain circumstances. Re-integration support for visa-free countries such as Georgia or Ukraine has also been provided at certain times in the previous government. In this respect, this may be the case for returners with specific vulnerabilities, such as minors, victims of trafficking in human beings or persons with medical or psychological vulnerability. This is an exception which can be granted on the basis of the individual file. This was also done in the previous government. We continue to work hard on this in cases where people need that exception. The support of families with children is maintained and strengthened. Families with children returning naturally have specific needs when they return, on a psychosocial level and in terms of educational backwardness. Through the ICAM procedure, the DVZ strongly focuses on this target group. From that point of view, we also see a need for additional support. The estimated annual additional cost, based on 2021, is 78,000 euros. The categorization of the reintegration budgets was also adjusted. This classification based on the administrative status was based on a model aimed at applicants for international protection. This model is no longer adapted to the current reality of people in illegal residence in large cities and without a future perspective, who use the voluntary return programme. The simplification makes it easier for first-hand workers to discuss the option of voluntary return with this target group, which has often been in Belgium for years without a perspective. First-line workers no longer need to distinguish between people who have or have not ever applied for asylum. If we can help people to voluntarily return and encourage:pourquoi pas? I don't see why we wouldn't. I think that broadening this target group would be a sensible measure in this respect. Then I get to the budget. The questions were correct, but I like to say: sometimes I get the question of what forced return costs and what the cost of closed centres is. If you are talking about this, you will end up in a debate about the cost of return. And I think that we all believe that someone who is not supposed to be on the territory should, above all, return and that we should make the necessary efforts to do so. The choice for a person to return is motivated by several factors. Providing sufficient support, by covering travel costs, and offering the opportunity to rebuild a life in the country of origin certainly play a part. Individuals can use these resources to resume life in the country of origin, for example to take up training or start their own business. In addition, however, it is mainly an accompaniment that is provided in the countries of origin via the return partners of Fedasil, for example Caritas, IOM and consorts. These are necessary together in order to achieve a sustainable return. There were questions about combating fraud. This is a legitimate concern. I have made sure that this is a permanent point of focus. There is continuous monitoring of the program, to avoid abuse. Partner organisation IOM has an international database that provides an overview of persons who have already returned through another European Member State, as they could be there. For example, it concerns someone who decides to return through Germany, who has another voluntary return policy with reintegration support, and then does the same in Belgium and then in the Netherlands. In this respect, it is good that IOM has an international database, which we use. We also keep a list of short-term residents on the territory who wish to make use of voluntary return and reintegration programmes, so that we know who has just arrived on the territory and so that we can detect fraud. The DVZ keeps a list of people who have effectively left, so the DVZ can also check if people have already enjoyed the return program. In addition, support for return is mainly in-kind, which is sometimes forgotten, and should be invested in goods or services that contribute to sustainable reintegration into the country of origin. So one cannot simply create the image that people get a large sum of money with this when they leave. The most important thing here remains the proper follow-up of these people through the partners on the ground. We remain committed to better monitoring of reintegration in the country of origin, so as to ensure the sustainability of voluntary return. Thanks to the creation of a permanent monitoring system, we must also be able to detect any abuses and, of course, I will not fail to intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your explanation. I am a little cautious and reluctant to welcome such measures, such as the increase in those amounts. Basically, it's about some people coming here looking for greater financial happiness or to taste our very generous and broad-ranging social security. Against that root is now being held another root to allow those people to move back to their country of origin. If that system is effective, up to now, but just because it does not pay enough, the system is now being extended, which, in our view, reinforces the opposite movement. People are now getting even more money when they leave the territory, even for visa-free countries. I doubt that's the right direction. You motivate the measure by stating that sustainable return is cheaper. Agreed, but that requires that all holes in the system be closed and all abuse ruled out. The practice of recent years has shown that this is still a problem, because there have been repeated cases of fraud. You have explained what control is being applied today, but I have not been able to hear any new measures or a strengthening of the control today. That control shall not evolve in parallel with the increase in the amounts. My fear is that we will spend more money, which seems guaranteed, while there are currently no guarantees of the success of voluntary return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u37	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I agree in part with previous colleagues: this policy is not paying enough attention. We believe that this is mainly due to the absence of forced return. The root of our group may be very large and juicy and worthwhile, but it can only be applied successfully if the stick is very large and the stick is used effectively if the root is not chosen. Unfortunately, that part isn't going to happen. We are pleased to note that you are still making a sufficiently large distinction between visa-free and visa-free countries, bearing in mind possible abuse. That is what we consider very important in this policy. I agree with you that any person we can send back is good for our budget. If there's one domain in which the federal government can't invest enough for all I care, it'll be back. The return on investment of that investment will not be surpassed by anything, because illegality and mass migration cost our country huge amounts of money. The huge cost of this will probably only be fully known in a few generations. Let us now at least try to limit that debt as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, five people have been forced into a courtroom in a center of Fedasil after they were previously placed on a waiting list. The judge has ruled that a waiting list is unlawful. Due to ongoing problems in the reception network, a waiting list is being worked on for people already applying for asylum elsewhere in the EU. You will appeal the judge's decision. You stand firm and state that transiting asylum seekers can temporarily be placed on a waiting list in the reception network in order to give priority to vulnerable children and asylum seekers with a first asylum application. In addition, you have announced that you will ask for a reform of the Reception Directive at European level. However, NGOs and civil society organisations have already pointed out that a waiting list is contrary to the Reception Act. The judgment of the judge also confirms that. This is not just a theoretical or legal discussion. We need to be aware that waiting lists will make sure that people literally have to stay on the streets. Whatever the reason why they are asking for shelter, it is logical that we should first offer them shelter as required by the Reception Act, that we should look at their files individually and then decide whether to stay or return. That is the only logical and human approach. Who's on that waiting list right now? What Eurodac categories do you have in mind? Is it still the intention to do everything possible to give people who are placed on a waiting list a place quickly? In the meantime, have you discussed this issue with your European colleagues? What did you argue for and what was the outcome? Is it intended to abolish that waiting list as soon as possible as soon as it is clear that it is an unlawful measure? My more fundamental thought is how to let asylum seekers sleep on the streets can be a solution. The term 'travelling asylum seekers' is confusing. Why do you choose to use that term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, on 8 February, BRUZZ announced that refugee organisations had sent a bailiff to you. I understand that this concerns case law condemning Fedasil and yourself for lack of reception for asylum seekers. On penalty of a penalty of EUR 5,000 per day, each asylum seeker should receive reception and there should be sufficient capacity in the registration centre. BRUZZ stated that the penalty payment started to run from 24 January 2022, while 45 000 euros were already required for the days when the asylum seekers had not received reception. What is your position on this case? How much has the penalty been paid today? Has payment been made yet? Were those who were placed on a waiting list or who were not receiving shelter Dublin asylum seekers, who were actually already entitled to bed, bath and bread in another EU Member State, or were they other cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the context has already been given by my colleague, Mrs Platteau. Indeed, the situation raises questions. You went on appeal against the court's decision with important periodic penalty payments, given the obligation to ensure the reception of applicants for international protection. This implies flexibility in our network. It must be noted, however, that today we are in a crisis of reception, more than in a crisis of migrants or migration. Indeed, the numbers known in 2015–16 were higher than those known in 2015–16. The situation is not new. We need to adapt and have a flexible network. As I said yesterday to Mr Franken in another case, I am a legalist. Justice points out that leaving applicants for international protection on the street is not an option and that it is contrary to the accepted law. I will wait for the final decision on appeal, but I hope that if the decision remained the same, you will take the necessary steps to respect the legal framework. Mr Secretary of State, while waiting for a decision to be taken at home, will you take the necessary steps to be able to accommodate who has the right to be welcomed: not only vulnerable MENA but also "non-vulnerable" MENA, asylum seekers in "Dublin" procedure and asylum seekers with status in another European country? How many people are currently on the waiting list? When can they hope to have a place available in our network? Will you wait for the decision of the court on appeal that would confirm the decision at first instance to remove this waiting list or do you intend to remove it as soon as possible in order to respect the right to receive applicants for international protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all applications for international protection are currently registered in the registration centre. However, as you know, the state of the reception network is still very precarious at the moment. I explained this in detail at the last committee meeting. Because of the situation, I decided to create a rule of priority. Priority for reception shall be given to families, unaccompanied minors and vulnerable persons. Persons who have already applied for asylum elsewhere and have in some cases already obtained protection status may register on a waiting list. I have been asked why I am talking about transitory asylum seekers. The answer is that this term reflects more clearly who it refers to, namely, asylum seekers travelling through the European Union as asylum seekers, where it appears that another Member State is competent to deal with their asylum applications. So when I talk about a 'Dobliner', most people assume it's someone who was born in Dublin and lives there. However, it is a term that needs to clarify what it is. The aim is to invite those on this waiting list to present themselves as soon as possible in order to designate a place for them. Mr. Rigot, of the 126 people who were on the waiting list on February 14, 56 were invited by Fedasil to represent at the arrival centre to receive the reception. Every day, new people are invited according to the available places. It was important to report it. This is not a waiting list accompanied by questions for the future of the persons concerned, since, since its establishment, a fairly large number of them have already been invited to present themselves. I would also like to point out that applications for protection are well registered. They therefore have the status of asylum seekers. They can also receive medical assistance that is taken care of by Fedasil. I would like to touch on another important point. This applies to unaccompanied minors. Both Mr. Rigot and Ms. Platteau referred to vulnerable minors. All minors are being apprehended. No unaccompanied minors are welcomed. Vulnerable unaccompanied minors are sometimes mentioned. The latter term should be deleted as all minors were accepted. I would like to point out, once again, that if we remove this waiting list, it means that we will return to the "first come, first served" system, which we experienced in November and December and which makes people sleep at the door to be the first to arrive the next day. As long as we do not have enough reception places, this waiting list allows us to monitor the situation. As soon as it is possible to stop using it without running the risk of not being able to accommodate children and families, this waiting list system will be discontinued. If there is a risk that children and families will be on the street, it is necessary to protect the system, ensure the opening of new places and, in the meantime, find the right way to avoid more serious problems. The questions also referred to the judgment of the Court of First Instance. The court found that applications for international protection should be registered and that applicants should be heard. This ruling simply confirms what is laid down in the rules. Fedasil and my cabinet together create shelters for all asylum seekers. Today, however, it is clear that the number of places available is not sufficient for the number of asylum seekers on the doorstep. With regard to periodic penalty payments in this case, amounts are mentioned in the press before they were officially requested by Fedasil. The amounts and calculations differ. My services will investigate them further. At this stage nothing has yet been paid. I have already made several points on the European stage about the fact that Belgian reception capacity is saturated and that there is a need for structural and sustainable solutions. I will continue to advocate better implementation and reform of the Dublin system, harmonisation of asylum standards and asylum procedures, and progress on reception rules. That in itself is worth a debate in this Chamber. What kind of asylum policy do we have at European level when we know that someone can be in an asylum procedure in Austria, six months there, and then decide, whether or not after the answer he has received, to move on to Belgium? That person is then in the shelter here, could move a further way to Germany and be in the shelter there again. That is not the best situation for those people either. The Dublin rules must be respected. The reality is that this is not enough today. We must have a system in which we no longer have what we experienced in January. In January, more than a hundred people asked for shelter in Belgium while they were recognised refugees in Europe. These are, therefore, people who have applied for asylum in a particular country, not only in Greece, who have received it and then come to Belgium, so that they can get back into the asylum system. That is worth at least a debate, which is the most cautious thing I can say about that. I discussed several issues at the IBS Council in Lille, such as the European Asylum and Migration Pact, along with the ambitions of the French. I also stressed that we should work at European level to prevent secondary movements and that this should be a priority in the gradual approach under negotiation. I am therefore pleased that the French Presidency has prevented this and has added the approach to secondary flows, including my question, to a first set of measures which the Ministers may or may not accept at the next Council. If I am not mistaken, it will take place in March. In any case, it is important that this is taken into account. I understand the concerns of all European countries, but the concerns of Belgium and a number of other countries affected by secondary migration are no less. A response must therefore be found at European level in the short term. Otherwise we will talk a long time about waiting lists and other creative solutions to deal with the problem temporarily. It'll be just cutting and sticking. That's not what we need to do. That is why Europe must act as quickly as possible. I would therefore like to thank the French for their willingness to take account of the question we have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u42	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. If I understand correctly, everyone is registered in the application centre anyway and you have applied a priority rule because there are currently too few reception points for the number of applications. The major challenge is to manage this crisis and to find additional reception places as soon as possible. I think we can agree on that. It was not entirely clear to me what aspect of the judgment you are appealing against. The judge said a waiting list was a violation of the shelter law. We'll have to wait for the judge's ruling on that. In any case, it is important that we do not leave the people on the waiting list. Efforts to strengthen the reception network should continue to be sustained. You know that you can count on our support for this. I'm concerned about the term 'travelling asylum seeker'. We all know the word transmigrant. They're people who don't apply for asylum. The term 'travelling asylum seeker' can therefore create confusion. Whether they are 'Dubliners' or not, they are people in Belgium who apply for international protection. I think we should follow the rules. You say that the Dublin rules are not being complied with. We all know the problems with these Dublin rules. I fully agree with you that there should be a debate on what European migration policy should look like in the future. In the meantime, it is important that we follow the current regulations and directives. In any case, it is important to understand the causes of secondary flow. You refer to countries such as Austria and Germany, but there are also people coming from Italy, Greece and so on. We know from which countries most secondary flows come and what are the causes of this, such as hopeless situations and Member States that are not at all committed to a smooth course of action. The reason I have a problem with the term 'travelling asylum seekers' is that it can be culpabilisating or gives the impression that they are the cause of the crisis of reception that we are currently experiencing. Just at a time when we need to gain support from the population in order to enable new reception, I do not think it is appropriate to communicate in this way. We can differ on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u43	About court decisions communicated with the press before you face them yourself, I can speak with you. That's pretty frustrating. Let's do something about that. The Dublin rules should take precedence over those rules of priority. More than 100 of the applicants for protection in the last month were actually recognised refugees in another European Member State, and thus subordinate to Dublin rules. Then there is clearly something very thoroughly wrong. Your position is quite clear in that regard. However, the position of some of your coalition partners is quite dubious. They think they are people who have applied for protection in our country, Dublin or not. Maybe you should go over that again. You are looking for a European solution in the short term for secondary migration in Europe. Make sure that the short-term will not continue to be set within two years. I fear that you will be able to wait a long time for a European solution. I refer to the many previous questions I have already put on this subject. You will have to conclude smaller alliances with Member States that want to go just a little faster than a short-term solution that takes many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I hear your willingness to respond to the needs and the need to provide a place for everyone under the conditions to claim the right. I very much hope that this will be translated into swift action so that this need can be realized. I know that you are putting a lot of energy into finding new places to welcome and meeting the needs of the network. I also know that it is not simple and that there is no miracle formula to achieve it. But today there are men, women and children who are on the street, while they have a right to reception. That is what the court at first instance says, and that is what I think in essence too. Meanwhile, others are in our network and are not entitled to it. As I have already mentioned, I would suggest once again that Fedasil be asked to ensure that the right to receive the entire network is controlled, so that those who are no longer in the conditions to be in our network are no longer there. It's an obligation. As there is a right, there are also obligations. Similarly, I suggest that we call for an acceleration of the sliding process from one place to another, from collective places to individual places and thus give way to the arrival centres and collective centres. In addition, Mr. Secretary of State, even if it is a temporary emergency reception that may be precarious, make every effort not to leave anyone on the street at this time. We are in grave public health conditions. We must be able to respond to this when winter is still there, with the climatic conditions we know. I count on you and you will be able to count on us, on our support, whenever you develop a policy that is consistent with respect for the rights of each of the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, in 2014, civil society organisations and volunteers set up The Alarm Phone: an emergency number for refugees in difficulty in the Mediterranean. When reporting, The Alarm Phone tries to collect as much information as possible about the ship and all available rescue ships and border guards are contacted. If no response is given to the emergency call, The Alarm Phone informs NGOs and journalists. In April last year, The Alarm Phone received a panicky report from a rubber boat off the Libyan coast. Because of the bad weather there was water in the boat. The passengers were fighting for their lives. The boat was located and the Libyan Coast Guard was contacted. Due to the bad weather conditions, however, it refused to send for help. Later that day, a passenger reported that a small plane was circulating around the boat. It was a security plane from Frontex, which quickly disappeared again, also due to the bad weather conditions. The next day the plane returned to the location and unfortunately several floating, lifeless bodies were found. The refugees were abandoned by both Frontex and the Libyan Coast Guard. Unfortunately, the event is not a one-off tragedy. Over the last seven years, more than 20,000 people have died on the Mediterranean. The work of the many NGOs carrying out rescue operations at sea is becoming increasingly difficult. They are accused of being a pull factor or even facilitating human trafficking. The rescue operations are disappearing and the number of deaths continues to rise. A new European Pact on Migration and Asylum is currently being negotiated in the Council of the European Union. There are several difficult buttons that still need to be cut down, but one element should be an absolute top priority: our borders should not become cemeteries. There is therefore a need for coordination of search and rescue operations. I have a few questions about that. How is the debate on the implementation of the SAR Convention going at European level? In your view, what role should Frontex play in rescue operations at sea? Do you think that the Libyan border guard should be involved when boats get into difficulties in Libyan waters? In other words, can we regard Libyan ports as safe according to the spirit of the SAR convention? How can we prevent the criminalisation of NGOs carrying out marine rescue operations? How can we ensure that the Mediterranean does not become a cemetery?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u46	Mrs Platteau, Belgium, in debates on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean Sea, always insists on respect for international law, including the SAR Convention, by individual Member States during the joint European operations. The role of Frontex in marine rescue operations is laid down in Regulation 2019/1896, which regulates the mandate of the Border and Coast Guard Agency. Frontex should provide technical and operational support to Member States and third countries in their national search and rescue operations during the surveillance of external borders. However, it is the national rescue service that orders the nearest or most suitable ship to come to the rescue. Frontex will provide the necessary medical assistance and transfer persons to the national government for identification and registration. In some countries there are Frontex missions to assist in this registration and identification. International maritime law says that states must help boats in difficulty located in their territorial waters. Therefore, when a European ship intercepts a boat in international waters in the context of a national or joint operation, it will never be returned to a Libyan port. In the framework of the European Asylum and Migration Pact, the Commission has published a communication encouraging Member States to distinguish between the activities of NGOs for humanitarian purposes and those intended solely to facilitate irregular migration and transit. The aim is not to criminalize the NGOs. The Commission has also published recommendations on cooperation between Member States when private vessels pick up migrants in order to ensure maritime safety and manage migration efficiently. In this context, the Commission has set up an expert group to promote cooperation and exchange best practices. It is clear that we must work hard to prevent the deaths at sea. There are distress and information campaigns, and the European Union is concluding partnerships with the countries of origin and transit to prevent migrants from taking a dangerous and life-threatening journey. In addition, existing missions help to dismantle the criminal networks that are hiding behind this kind of crossing and are even improving financially. Moreover, the Union's new action plan for 2021-2025 against trafficking in human beings also focuses on tackling such criminal networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u47	Thank you for your answer, that I will read it again. What strikes me is that you say that we are looking at how we can distinguish between NGOs that provide humanitarian aid and NGOs that facilitate irregular migration. That's the problem. If NGOs help people in need at sea, we must never criminalize them for that. That seems to me to be a very important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, this is a very important question. Recently appeared in the Belgian Official Journal, which we all read every morning with coffee, the publication of the Royal Decree of 30 November 2021 amending the Royal Decree of 8 December 2008 laying down the rules applicable to shipments carried out by security officers-drivers of the Foreign Affairs Office. These are foreigners covered by the articles of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals. In our view, this royal decision is making some fundamental changes which jeopardise the safety of the DVZ's security staff drivers. In principle, there must be at least one DVZ member of staff in the transport of foreign nationals more than the number of foreigners to be transported. The Royal Decree now provides that the head of service or his deputy may reduce that number, while the media have reported violence in such shipments all too often lately. Moreover, the powers of the DVZ staff are so broad that they are almost police in nature. For example, a DVZ member of staff has to monitor the foreigner's cell at the airport in certain cases. The DVZ staff member may also have to go on the plane in the event of an emergency. Such an emergency is, for example, a rebellion on board the plane, or severe, even physical resistance. Mr Secretary of State, what compulsory or optional trainings, trainings, etc. will the security staff of the DVZ be given more to guarantee their own safety and that of foreigners and third parties? Do the DVZ's security staff have certain means to defend themselves or third parties in case of emergency, such as pepper spray or batons? If so, what means are we talking about? If not, do you not consider it necessary? Finally, Article 23 of the Royal Decree of 2008 states that in the event of an incident or when coercive means were used, a report must be drawn up. Is it common for such a report to be drawn up? If so, what are the reports often about? I will request detailed overviews and statistics in a written follow-up request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u49	Mr Van Langenhove, you will agree with me that a lot of people come to our country every year, of whom only part can remain. Those who cannot stay are urged to return to their country of origin. That doesn't always happen without a hit or off. The employees of the DVZ who are responsible for the safety in the centres and the transport of the executed persons are therefore given a difficult task which requires the necessary practical and legal framework. For this reason, the Royal Decree of 8 December 2008, which lays down the rules and regime applicable to this transport, was amended. The tasks of the employees are now better defined, giving them better legal protection in the performance of their duties and more control over the circumstances in which they have to work. All security personnel are also required to receive training on aggression management techniques upon taking up their duties and then an annual mandatory refresher. Dealing with difficult and aggressive residents and the use of coercion are explained, covering both theory and practice. It also organizes a basic training and refreshment 'to deal with aggression'. The security personnel also have the necessary authorised means of coercion, i.e. the physical incentive, the holding handle and the use of handcuffs as indicated by you, as also listed in the KB. Those funds are sufficient for the execution of the transport orders. Their use and application are constantly monitored and are subject to regular consultations between the staff and the management of DVZ and the trade unions. As regards the reports to which you refer, two such reports were drawn up in 2022 up to and including 10 February out of a total of 617 residents transported. It involved one escape and one case of automutilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u50	Am I to understand that these two reports are for 2022, so on the last month and a half? (The Secretary of State: yes) Then I will ask for an overview of the past few years through a written question, which can then serve as a basis for any follow-up or legislative initiatives.Whether the means you specify the physical incentive, the grip and, if necessary, the handcuffs, are sufficient, we ask ourselves serious questions in view of the many reports that have or have not gone to the media about violence and aggression on the part of foreigners who are being returned to the people of the DVZ. I think, unfortunately, that the dangerous situation in which these people have to work is not sufficiently taken into account and that the resources they currently have at their disposal, contrary to what you claim, are not conclusive, as witnessed by the many incidents that have already taken place. For follow-up questions, I am waiting for the figures you will send us in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u51	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to refer to one of my first meetings in the declaration of government, where you pointed out a 'true on talent'. At that time, I referred to the fact that this 'true on talent' should mainly be fed here, on its own soil, and that we are losing it here in particular. At the beginning of this month, a noted and shared contribution on the social media about labour migration was published on the website of Het Laatste Nieuws. It also covers, among other things, the right of residence which has recently been introduced in Germany, giving illegal immigrants who live five years in Germany and who do not have an insignificant detail, a blank criminal record, a year to look for work or receive training leading to a bottleneck profession. In that context, Het Laatste Nieuws stated that you are trying to move towards the German story, but that it is difficult for you to sell it to public opinion. You claimed to reject the German right of residence, but at the same time argued for more targeted labour migration. On the other hand, your party colleague and Flemish minsinter van Werk, Hilde Crevits, does not mention a boost on migration with us for the time being, fortunately, but since Flanders is currently quite attractive in terms of labour migration, she says with, as far as we are concerned, a euphemism. How far are you willing to go to the German right of residence? It's no secret that some of your coalition partners will be interested in the right of opportunity. For example, it shows some similarities with what was to be read in the updated version of Paul Magnette's Informateur's Note at the end of 2019. Can you and will you make it clear here that such a right of residence will not come under any circumstances to this legislature, under your direction, in your department? In Flanders, economic migration for highly skilled and middle-skilled bottleneck professions, and this list was recently renewed, is automatically permitted. Only for those with short-term education are there to see if there are people to be found in their own country. What does your repeated plea for even more targeted migration in this context actually mean even more? Finally, what additional efforts can we expect from you and your fellow ministers, both in the federal government and in the Flemish government, at least not to lose that 'war on talent' on our own soil if it is not won?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u52	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, you have already indicated that in Het Laatste Nieuws Professor Baert says that I wish to go in the direction of the German story, which is contradicted in the piece in which I myself speak. I have also clarified this in the social media. The distinction that Mr Baert, for whom I have a great deal of respect, has not made in this respect, is the activation of asylum seekers in a procedure which does not yet know whether or not they should stay in Belgium. We are very committed to this. Germany also did this in the period of 2015, when there was a large flow of refugees. The right of residence gives people who would stay illegally for five years in Germany the opportunity to be regularised on that basis. In this respect, I have been clear enough here in committee. If you ask me to clarify this, I can answer that it is true that there are partners in the government who have a different opinion on this. They're free to do that, too. I would be surprised if the parties suddenly change their minds because they are part of a majority. However, we are moving towards a compromise, in which it is quite clear that there will be no regularisation policy based on work or for someone who is legally resident in Belgium for five years and who can also get papers through a working promise. In my personal opinion, that is not a good signal. The question is also addressed to me personally. Such a policy is not wise. This means that if I give 30 000 orders to leave the territory today, some people know well that they can stay if, despite that order to leave the territory, they can stay here for five years and have a promise of work. I don't know how Germany on that basis will convince someone to leave. However, with those arguments, I would find it very difficult to convince anyone. That is certainly not going to happen during the current legislature. That is also the government's position, even if there are parties who have a different opinion on it. That's their right. However, the coalition agreement is clear in this respect. I have also been very clear on this point on many occasions. It is not for me to comment on what was written in 2019 informant's notes, but at least the coalition agreement is clear enough. For Flanders, questions are addressed, but in part also to the regionally competent ministers. When I talk about more targeted migration, I do not necessarily assume more migration. She needs to be more focused. A migration policy of migrant workers should focus mainly on those target groups who are aware that no one wants to fill out certain jobs in Belgium today. There are plenty of farmers who can't find anyone. There are big meat processing companies that nobody can find. Action must also be taken on the Flemish and Belgian labour markets. Hence the need to work in step. First, all necessary measures must be taken to activate all those legally resident in Belgium. We must also activate asylum seekers who are legally resident here pending an answer to their asylum procedure. I am not the Minister of Work and not regionally competent, but we must do everything we can to activate the long-term unemployed. Then there is the European story. We need to see who in Europe can meet the needs of our labour market. Many employers in Europe also see that they used to be able to rely on labour from Poland, Romania, Bulgaria or Hungary, for example, for seasonal work, but that is less and less so today. In those countries too, fewer and fewer people can be persuaded to carry out certain jobs in Belgium. We must therefore move towards targeted forms of labour migration. We need to invest in integration policies even before people leave. We need to ensure that it can be done in the right way and that we get the needs of our labour market properly met. Our labour migration policy has often been ill-considered in the past. There was a lack of vision. The people who are legally resident in our country must be activated. In addition, no one in this committee will deny that there will still be a shortage on the labour market once everyone is activated. A number of jobs will still not be filled out. As a country and as a European Union, we must pursue a sensible, selective labour migration policy, in which we attract the right profiles. We know the demography of our own people. One has to focus on the right integration course. You nod no, but you may take care of a lot of children. Your question about what we can expect from the talent on our own soil is partly about regional issues. Above all, we must ensure that we keep the many potential that we have in our country. In order to develop Silicon Valley in Belgium, an ambitious policy must be developed. Many aspects are important. For example, there are many people with a migration background who are born and raised in Flanders and want nothing more than to use their abilities for the wider society. There too, we need to work on a policy where we can best guide people from school to the labour market in order to activate the great potential they have. Activate the talent of home soil and keep it here and not drive it away, so we could fill up a whole committee and have fun debates about it, but that will probably be for the next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u53	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. We make newcomers ourselves with the Flemish Interest. Practice what you preach, we'll make sure of that. The media that make an intention process and bring out other things than those that you yourself believe in, I can speak seriously with that too. That is why I am pleased that you have been able to rectify it in this committee which the whole country is looking at and where the real information can be found. There is indeed a compromise in the coalition agreement. It is certainly not the case that all parties should change their minds as soon as they join a particular government. However, it should be made clear that it is not a good signal to regularise on the basis of work. You ask yourself how one can still convince migrants who have been expelled from Germany to leave the territory and return to the country of origin. The answer is not. That is actually what the German Government wants and what some of your green and red coalition partners want. They really don't want to tell anyone and not bring them back, forced or voluntary. So they're actually just talking with their tongues closed when they're talking about a policy where they're going to regularize on the basis of work and a right of residence. I would like to say a few words about labour market policy and labour migration policy. Indeed, there is a shortage on the labour market at the moment, especially in Flanders where agricultural and meat processing companies are intensively looking for workers. Let us start with a lot of the young people from Brussels. You're from the region, you know plenty. They do not currently have a future and hang around. Let us guide those people towards such a job that they are satisfied with and so they can be part of society. Let us also start by abolishing subsidising the master's gender and diversity at the faculty of literature and philosophy of Ghent University. That's the most popular manama in this faculty. Hundreds of people graduate there. What the hell are we gonna do with that? Let us guide these people to a real job, in agriculture, for example, where they can do something with their hands and get satisfaction from it. Let us even abolish this Parliament, so that we can all become bio-farmers. Our country will sail in regenerative agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, for some time now Fedasil has been increasing reception capacity. Since 1 November, no less than 2,904 additional places have been added. Probably this has increased since the submission of demand. At the end of last month, Fedasil's reception network and its partners exceeded the threshold of 30,000 places. However, according to Fedasil itself, the new centres are not sufficient to accommodate all asylum seekers who will apply in the coming weeks and new openings are planned in the coming months. Fedasil is therefore constantly looking for new buildings that would be suitable for housing. Recently, Fedasil would have also registered real estate agents in the framework of a search for vacant sheds and land.They say: "Ideally, they are in good condition, available in the short term and under market conditions. Preferably these areas/ hangars have a minimum surface area of 2,500 square meters and have hardening ", et cetera." Can you confirm that Fedasil is also looking for land and vacant sheds and that a letter was addressed to the real estate agents in this respect? If so, do you take into account that the commissioning and necessary additional adaptation works will entail large additional costs and will have implications for the budget? The latest figures from the CGVS do not indicate a downward trend in the number of asylum applications. How many additional shelters will Fedasil be looking for in the next few months? What number, including the buffer sites approved last year, do you intend to clock off?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u55	Mr Van Langenhove, as you know, it is one of the priorities of my policy to increase outflow. The most recent figures show that the increase in influx is temporarily stabilizing, but even in the event of a possible decline in influx, the collection network remains dynamic. Some centres close after some time. Fedasil is therefore constantly looking for sufficient additional shelters to compensate the places that close, by others. The dynamic reception policy is no different from that in the past. Indeed, in January and the months before, many people have applied for international protection and we are preparing to open additional places in the coming months. Given the strong fluctuations in the number of persons applying for international protection, it is not yet possible to determine precisely this. It is also necessary to have sufficient buffering places to meet structural needs. In this context, various slopes are examined and several actors are contacted, as is always the case. Logically, real estate agents are also contacted. Here this was to identify sites where emergency capacity can be realized by placing, for example, residential containers. These exploratory surveys are necessary for Fedasil to prepare further and to be able to create additional shelters, which of course one does not do on one-two-three. Indeed, the creation of reception places on a new site often requires adaptation work. To this end, a dossier must be submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate. The additional costs must always be as limited as possible and must be checked against the duration of the time that these places will eventually be able to serve as a reception point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that these empty sheds and sites are indeed emergency shelters and that you are thinking of setting up residential containers to alleviate the great need for shelters. Now, there are already 30,000 shelters. That is a huge number, especially for a country like Belgium. It seems to me, therefore, that we should be looking first and foremost for limiting the inflow and increasing the outflow to reduce the 30,000, rather than constantly chasing the facts and creating more and more reception capacity, even now in empty areas, housing containers. That is not a structural solution. The additional costs may have to be reduced, but these additional costs will be huge. You know that, too. If the Finance Inspectorate will assess this, I hope that it will be very strict and will not allow the migration bill, which is already billions, to be much more out of control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u57	The next five questions by Mr Moutquin, with Nos. 55025346C, 55025347C, 55025348C, 55025353C and 55025357C are postponed at his request until a subsequent committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u58	Mr. Secretary of State, this week you were allowed to receive a letter from the mayor of Lier. In that city a Romanian stays illegally and he creates some commotion. In the mayor's report there are several incidents, crimes, multiple arrests, addiction problems and even multiple arson. In each of these facts, the local police contacted the Foreign Affairs Office with the request for the expulsion of the person concerned. However, DVZ repeatedly decided not to proceed with detention and removal of the territory. However, under the Aliens Act, it is possible to force Union citizens to return and hold for the purpose of expulsion on grounds of public policy, which I believe is certainly satisfied in this case, either because of national security or for reasons of public health. Mr Secretary of State, when was the right of residence of the man in question first withdrawn and for what reasons? How many orders to leave the territory have already been handed over to the person concerned? Is the Foreign Office aware of the criminal history of the man and of the facts committed by him? Is the person in question already in a closed centre? You received the letter a few days ago and you may have already taken action. What further action will you take on the letter from the mayor of Lier?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u59	Mr Roggeman, the person's application for residence on the basis of work was refused because he did not meet all the conditions. It is therefore not a question of withdrawing the right of residence. The Foreign Affairs Office was indeed contacted after the police intercepted the person concerned. In making a decision on detention, the DVD must take into account various elements, such as the seriousness of the facts committed, the places available in the closed centres at that time and the status of the person. The number of places in closed centres has been particularly scarce in recent weeks due to a higher number of infections with the omikron variant. So far, therefore, this consideration by DVZ has not led to a detention. In the meantime, the DVZ has contacted the mayor and the local police to take the necessary steps together in the short term, as this is a person who has caused a great deal of trouble, who should not stay effectively on the territory and for whom steps are necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with you on that last point. According to the mayor's explanation, the person concerned appears to be a danger to public order, to himself and to people around him. Of course, we can only understand the capacity limitation of the DVZ. However, I noticed in the communication of the DVZ that people say that the nature of the facts must be taken into account. You referred to that, too. A very strange situation is about to arise. When the facts are too light, the DVZ does not intervene, which makes sense, but when the facts are too heavy, the DVZ refers to the parquet. Apparently the DVZ does not act until the facts are at the right level of heaviness. That is a strange practice which I would like to see clarified in a future answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, the international security crisis around Ukraine, with increasing tensions and the attitude of Russian troops at the border, cannot be eliminated from the current state of affairs. Several European sources tell us that several thousands of Ukrainians living in the border region have already fled their home region and are heading west. I have a few questions about this. Is the government preparing to tackle a possible influx of Ukrainian refugees to our country? Are preventive actions being taken? What is the government's position on a possible influx from Ukrainians to the European Union and to Belgium in particular? Have you discussed this issue with your European colleagues and what were the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u62	Mr Roggeman, the situation in Ukraine is also being monitored by the asylum and migration services. First of all, the Belgian position is that we are trying to avoid a conflict and the associated refugee problem by focusing on extensive diplomatic contacts. This is done at all possible levels, including at NATO and at European level. In addition, it has already been indicated that an appropriate European and multilateral response will be provided in the event of a Russian invasion. The European debate on this is, of course, taking place in the filière Foreign Affairs. From Asylum and Migration, we take into account all possible scenarios, so that we do not come up against surprises. However, the precise consequences of a possible future conflict between the Russian Federation and Ukraine on the Belgian migration and asylum situation are difficult to assess. How many people will leave the region depends on the nature, severity and scope of a possible raid. In 2014, for example, we saw that many Ukrainians decided to stay in their own country. In addition to internal movements, more Ukrainians moved to European neighbouring countries, such as Poland. I recently had a discussion with a number of ministers and ambassadors from Eastern Europe who confirmed that, if there were a problem in Ukraine and a demand for shelter in Eastern Europe, there would be a great willingness to show solidarity in those countries. As I said, a number of Ukrainians moved to Poland during that period, in addition to internal movements. Sometimes this happened for a short time, as Ukrainians have a visa waiver for short stays in the Schengen area. In Belgium, too, in 2014 and 2015, a limited increase in the number of applications for international protection was established by Ukrainians. These figures stabilised afterwards. At the moment, there is no significant outflow from Ukraine. Much will depend on how the conflict evolves. Here too, we can only hope that the problem will not escalate further and hope that diplomatic contacts can provide peace and quiet. Our asylum and migration services could very well use that rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic702x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, we do not have a glass ball. There's no telling what's gonna happen there. However, the situation is what it is and it is happening at the external borders of the European Union. Our Walloon colleagues have a beautiful proverb: governor, c'est prévoir. It would be sensible policy to make the necessary preparations.
