ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the Court of Auditors has presented a very interesting report on social security and its management. Social security manages budgets of more than EUR 100 billion per year through public social security institutions. These are budgets that are also much higher than GDP. That is a separate discussion, but we must also be concerned about the affordability of social security in the future. The Court of Auditors has for years denounced the frivolity of financial management. In the November 2021 report, this issue appears to go even further in the wrong direction. After all, no public institution of social security transferred its accounts for the year 2020 to the Court of Auditors in good time. In fact, both the RIZIV and the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance have still not submitted any accounts for 2017, 2018 and 2019. I think we all agree that this is not a good way to work. Any entrepreneur who shows such a nonchalance would have been dealt with hard in the meantime for fraud, and not unjustly. Apparently, these public social security institutions have been above the law for years, whereas it is actually about the financial management of more than EUR 100 billion a year. If that doesn't happen according to the rules of art, it could cost billions. Are you aware of the problems raised by the Court of Auditors? What is the cause of this very lateness, particularly at the RIZIV, but also at the other public institutions? What steps have you already taken or will you take to persuade all public social security institutions to draw up and deliver their accounts to the Court of Auditors in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u2	Mr Anseuw, I do not think it is really fair to speak of nonchalance in the financial management of public social security institutions. The mandate of the public social security institutions is the result of the application of social laws and government policies, while the management budget contains only limited appropriations subject to the same standards as the budgets of the federal government or other federal government institutions. The total expenditure on social security amounts to EUR 119 billion in 2021. Of these, EUR 2.5 billion goes to administrative costs, not only from public social security institutions, but also from all cooperating third-party institutions, in particular sickness funds and paying institutions responsible for paying unemployment benefits. So this is barely 2% of the total expenditure. I don't know any other cheaper system. During the year, the monthly evolution of revenue and expenditure is closely monitored by technical committees and by the management bodies of the various institutions. Annual accounts are subject to strict rules contained in a standardised accounting plan and are audited by company auditors. Any error or anomaly shall be recorded in the company auditor's report. The necessary improvements shall be made during the following financial years. I would add that, since the delay in the preparation and presentation of the calculations to the Court of Auditors is not due to the lack of financial management, there are no financial consequences for social security. I am, of course, aware of the delays in drawing up the annual accounts of some public social security institutions. If you read the Court of Auditors' report, you will know that at the moment there are only two public social security institutions which are still lagging behind, in particular the RIZIV and the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance. All other public social security institutions, including the RSZ, have closed their annual accounts for 2020 within the statutory deadline or with less than a month delay. I believe that this is acceptable in the current circumstances. The pandemic also weighs heavily on the administration of these institutions. The other delays for the past reported by the Court of Auditors are only delays related to very difficult procedures: firstly, as regards certification by a company auditor to be appointed after a tender request and secondly, as regards the official submission to the Court of Auditors after the signature of the supervisory ministers and the Secretary of State for the Budget. In future, these delays in the procedure will disappear thanks to the new law on the certification of the accounts of public social security institutions by the Court of Auditors. This law provides that the managing body shall send its accounts directly to the Court of Auditors, which shall then have 14 weeks to carry out the certification operations. In the case of the Auxiliaries, the delay is due to the acquisition of the activities of the Auxiliaries and Prezorgkas for Seafarers in the field of medical care and benefits and the allocation of additional assignments, namely the medical care of war victims and victims of acts of terrorism, which has made the accounts difficult. In addition, there is a problem with extending the certification work of the auditor to all activities of the Auxiliary Cash and the fact that the Auxiliary Cash as an insurance institution is also subject to the accounting plan imposed by the Health Insurance Fund Audit Service. Finally, as mentioned in the book of the Court of Auditors, the layout of the accounts at the RIZIV is a complex process involving several departments. On the basis of an internal audit, the RIZIV has drawn up an action plan to address the delay in the preparation of the accounts. The closure of the accounts of the year 2018 is almost complete. The RIZIV expects it to close the 2019 and 2020 accounts in 2022. However, as the Court of Auditors points out, the additional workload caused by the health crisis will make this timetable difficult to comply with, despite all the efforts of the various services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u3	Mr Minister, when I sum up your answer, I note that you are making a number of facts very minimal and in any case not very heavy, while it is about spending more than EUR 100 billion on an annual basis. You've confirmed that yourself. These are annual accounts that go back to 2017. Meanwhile, we're 2022. If the reason for this delay is at the pandemic, then I don't really remember. You say that the layout of the accounts of, for example, the RIZIV is a very complex fact. Perhaps that illustrates the fact that we are organising inefficiency ourselves. It's from two cases one. Either you think it is important for the Court of Auditors to look into those accounts, or you don't think so. You certainly gave me the impression, even if you did not say it in so many words, that you do not think it is so important. It's not going to be one, two, three or even four years late. Delay itself is even acceptable to you in some cases. Then why are there still deadlines? If one sets rules and one wants or cannot maintain them, then it is completely useless or even counterproductive to set rules. Then be honest and transparent about it. All I can see is that these are incredibly large budgets. Last year, social security expenditure amounted to EUR 119 billion. The accounts of an important part of them do not really interest you very much. I think that's special. Your main argument is that it is a very complex fact. Perhaps then we should stop organizing inefficiency in our social security. Maybe we should finally get to work on getting it over there. Then there will be more transparency and greater acceptance and perhaps even more efficiency, imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, before proceeding to the following questions, I propose that you make a good resolution at the beginning of the year and ensure that the time allotted to you is respected. This will make it possible to move forward quickly and effectively so that all members who table a question can get an answer. However, questions Nos. 55023123C and 55023125C by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister, to date, only two patients have been declared permanently incapacitated for covid-19. While there are more temporary recognitions, they also remain difficult to obtain. Fedris blames the cause for the lack of certainty that still surrounds the long covid, the lack of scientific and medical consensus complicating the establishment of periods of illness. It should be noted that an estimated 115 000 people in Belgium would be affected by this particular form of covid. In 10 to 25% of cases, individuals affected by the virus would still not be fully cured three months after the first symptoms. In view of these figures, it will be understood that the applications submitted are currently constantly increasing, to the extent that the 120-day deadline for Fedris to decide on the cases before it is now well exceeded. Minister, in early December, the Council of Ministers approved your bill to expand the recognition of covid as an occupational disease. Employees in the private sector and in municipal or provincial institutions will now also be covered. What are the expected results of this extension? Have there been any quantitative forecasts? How do you envisage the support to be given to Fedris, who will probably have to deal with an influx of requests, in order to maintain reasonable response times?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u6	Ms Bonaventure, with regard to your first question on the expected results of the extension of the list, it is expected from this new regulation that workers who have been involved in outbreaks and contaminated with covid-19 in the context described in the Royal Decree of 9 December will apply for compensation for occupational disease from Fedris. Estimates have been made to get an idea of the budgetary cost of the measure, but it is still too early to provide precise figures. I will therefore closely monitor with Fedris the evolution of the applications submitted as well as the number of recognitions. However, I cannot now predict the observations that are going to be made, but I will not fail to keep you informed in the following months when a sufficient number of applications have been submitted and processed. Your second question concerns the support given to Fedris in anticipation of the influx of applications. Fedris has developed an approach plan that provides an update on actions already in place and those that need to be planned. Various aspects are envisaged: information to citizens, consultation with other actors involved – Medex, occupational medicine, etc. – and above all the processing of applications, which is a crucial point. In this regard, 19 additional collaborators – counted in full-time equivalents – are already planned to strengthen teams dealing with covid-19-related applications, and 14 of them have already taken office. In addition to the five current recruitments, eight additional staff will be engaged in the near future. The number of doctors has also been increased and recruitment procedures are under way to meet unmet needs. In terms of information technology resources, developments are also planned, including the development of administrative and medical forms, which will undoubtedly speed up the processing of applications. That's an answer to both of your questions, Ms. Bonaventure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. The pandemic has created many challenges, especially for political leaders – including you. In this context, the issue of covid-19 as an occupational disease has not been one of the initial priorities and this is understandable. As I said earlier, it is intimately linked to the unknowns surrounding the long covid. Two years after the beginning of the epidemic, you logically took this construction site to arm-the-body. Thank you. I can only encourage you to assess, within a few months, whether or not the new legislation is appropriate. In conclusion, I stress once again the need to provide FEDRIS – perhaps even temporarily – with the resources necessary to manage this likely additional work, in order to avoid an impact on workers with other diseases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u8	Mr Minister, following an opinion from the social partners, agreement was recently reached on a definitive arrangement for association work. I am pleased that this arrangement will enter into force retroactively from this year on. However, the regulation is limited to the sport and socio-cultural sectors. I understand that, but that means that certain sectors which were included in the supplement law two years ago, such as the education sector, are now excluded from the scheme. However, in schools, especially in the corona period, but also outside, volunteers are very often called upon. They help, among other things, with the afternoon surveillance and provide help in the refectory. These volunteers are invaluable and my party wants to remove all possible thresholds for volunteering and to offer volunteers the right framework and conditions. A number of groups of volunteers can rely on the increased flat-rate expenses, which amounts to EUR 2,600 per day and EUR 35 per day on an annual basis. This is currently the case for the volunteers in the sports sector, the volunteers for day and night care and the volunteers for non-urgent sick transport. For volunteers in the vaccination centres and in care, a higher ceiling has been introduced following the covid pandemic, i.e. EUR 3,541 per year. Volunteers in education are excluded from the scheme. Can it be explored whether the target groups in the Voluntary Act eligible for increased expenses can be extended? Now that there is an arrangement for the work of associations, perhaps we should consider which groups are eligible for the increased reimbursement of expenses. Can this also be done for volunteers in the education sector? Why is that? Why is that? Of course, I think we should ask the High Council for Volunteers and the NAR for advice on this. After all, I think it is important to ensure that the frontier between work on the one hand and volunteering on the other hand is well guarded. We must always be aware of this. It cannot be the intention for volunteers to become a form of cheap labour, but let us consider for many volunteers in education and perhaps also in other sectors whether we can increase the reimbursement of expenses, as we have already done for other volunteers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u9	Since 1 January, the scope of the new association work scheme, which was developed on the advice of the National Labour Council and in consultation with representatives of the sectors concerned, has been limited to sporting and socio-cultural activities. This was already the case in the temporary scheme in 2021. I think it is important to remind you that volunteering is basically unpaid. The legislation allows organisations to reimburse the costs incurred by volunteers. Organisations may choose between the flat-rate reimbursement system or reimbursement of actual costs incurred on the basis of documentary evidence. In 2022, the flat-rate fee is limited to EUR 36,11 per day and EUR 1,444,52 per year. For the categories of volunteers you quote, there is indeed a higher flat-rate annual amount, i.e. EUR 2,652.98 per year. The High Council for Volunteers has in the past expressed its opposition to a general increase in the flat-rate fee and asked that any sectoral increase be examined with caution. As you rightly say, this should prevent voluntary work from competing with regular employment in the sectors concerned and inequalities between the different categories of volunteers. In my policy paper, I intend to have a thorough study carried out on volunteering in Belgium and the voluntary status. As already explained in the committee, I will, in close consultation with the High Council for Volunteers, determine the subjects to be examined and the period within which the study will be carried out. In my view, this should include an evaluation of the system of reimbursements. I will also put your question to the High Council for Volunteers and ask you to examine whether an extension of an increased flat-rate fee to other categories is desirable and whether this meets an objective need in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I certainly do not plead for volunteers to be reimbursed. In 99% of cases, volunteers do unremunerated work. Every now and then, volunteering may be subject to an allowance for expenses. I therefore call for this to be looked at in a tailor-made manner, in order to determine which forms of voluntary service may be subject to increased remuneration. I do not therefore call for a general increase either. It is good that you take the question into account in your assessment of the voluntary law. I'm hoping for a quick settlement. At present we see that volunteers, for example in schools, work on the basis of a carousel system. Several volunteers are recruited, as the maximum limit is reached for what volunteers can get in expenses. In close consultation with the sector and with the High Council for Volunteers, we need to look at how this can be remedied and determine what forms of volunteering can benefit from an increase, as it already exists today for day and night care. I hope that we will soon see results of that investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u11	Let me remind you that we need to be careful about timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u12	The return-to-work coordinators do indeed fulfil a new role. They must have a great deal of competence. You quote a number of them in your question, but they can be supplemented by motivating conversation techniques and analytical skills, for example. Selecting people who have the right personality profile is the responsibility of the employer, in this respect the insurance institutions. We need to have sufficient confidence in their human resources departments. We have quite deliberately not set up diplomas because we believe that these jobs should be open to people with different backgrounds. That was a point of discussion that I also exhausted with my own advisers. I thought it would be better to work widely and not to allow too formalistic only defined diplomas. We therefore assume that knowledge of legislation, the regional network and services must be built up to an important extent from the job. The return-to-work coordinator is not alone, of course. He or she ends up in a team in which a lot of knowledge has to be available through the consulting doctors and the members of the multidisciplinary team. We choose the link with the education disability management, because we wanted this group of people with probably very different backgrounds to develop a common basis across the boundaries of organizations. That's why we're focusing on intervision. In this way they meet regularly and we can continue to provide an update of vision and knowledge. An insurance institution has every interest in getting people who have the right profile into the job, but it is not just about the training background because the other skills and competences mentioned are equally important. Currently, RIZIV is looking at the training modules and will make a number of adjustments. Some of the legislation is new. The changed context of the health crisis also requires a number of adjustments. The knowledge centre of the RIZIV closely follows this up. We are committed to accountability, we are ensuring that the efforts of the back-to-work coordinators will be measurable. The developments at RIZIV and the VI's to enable those recordings and measurements are in full swing. A return-to-work coordinator who takes into account the interests of his employer can therefore only be a return-to-work coordinator who does his job well. Whether that is a trusted member of the health insurance fund or not does not, in my view, matter very much. I can reassure you, there are also competent people working at the sickness funds, very competent people even, who are committed to the interests of their members on a daily basis. So we are right, both with the place where we employ these people and the context as well as with the way their profile is described.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u13	Minister, I agree with your last remark. I also think that there are people who are doing well. Thank you for your answer. My questions were actually raised by a conversation with some of the people who had already attended this training and who saw the danger that you would leave it so open in recruitment because these training courses were not less. They should not be either, because unfortunately we live in a very complex country and that also reflects very strongly in these training programmes. Surely it is information that the back-to-work coaches must have in order to carry out their job properly. I understand your reasoning that it should not depend solely on diplomas, and we will have to evaluate what goes on. You know that, despite the fact that I do follow the principle, I fear that we are sitting here with a far too small group positioned under the wrong vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u14	Madam President, Minister, following the closure of Caterpillar in Gosselies in 2016, a lump-sum extra-legal allowance called "departure" was paid to laid-off workers. This severance benefit is declared under pay code 4 in the DmfA: "Indemnity paid when the employment contract is terminated and is not expressed in working time". INAMI considers that this allowance cannot be combined with disability benefits and asks mutualities to claim reimbursement of these benefits. However, the regulation of compensation insurance does not provide for the conversion of such severance pay into a period during which the award of disability benefits is refused. On 3 December 2019, I asked Minister De Block about the illegality of the administrative practice of INAMI. In her response, the minister agreed with the position of INAMI. Since appeals were pending before the labour courts, she did not want to interfere with the courts. I am reminded that a judgment of 22 November 2021 of the Brussels Labour Court confirms that the decisions of INAMI have no legal basis and must be annulled. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on various provisions in the social field (No. 2247), you yourself acknowledge that the insurance regulations do not contain a provision defining the period that an allowance not expressed in terms of working time due to the termination of the employment contract would be intended to cover. Minister, are you going to instruct INAMI not to appeal the ruling? Are you going to ask that all recoveries and suspensions of compensation notified on the basis of this illegal administrative practice be cancelled and that the files of all the invalids concerned be regularised with retroactive effect, including those who have not lodged an appeal before the Labour Court? It is not to interfere in the course of justice that to remind the INAMI that the role of the administration is to apply the law and not to invent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u15	The current rules on compensation insurance for employed persons provide that the worker is not entitled to compensation for the period for which he is entitled to remuneration. The concept of remuneration is determined by Article 2 of the Act of 12 April 1965 on the protection of workers' remuneration. I refer to Article 103(1) of the coordinated law of 14 July 1994. In its judgment of 22 November 2021, the French-speaking Labour Court of Brussels held that the compensation paid by Caterpillar on the occasion of the termination of the contract of employment not expressed in terms of working time – in particular the severance pay provided for in Article 10 of the CLC and in the social plan – did constitute remuneration within the meaning of Article 2 of the aforementioned Law of 12 April 1965, in respect of benefits to which workers are entitled on the basis of the CLC and paid by the employer (the debtor). Because of his commitment, the right to such compensation is in fact linked to the fact that the worker was engaged. The Labour Court noted, however, that this severance pay does not relate to any period within the meaning of Article 103(1). In this context, it therefore considered that the administrative practice applied by INAMI to convert this severance pay into working time on the basis of a reasoning more or less similar to that laid down in the unemployment regulation cannot be followed, given the absence of a legal or regulatory basis for such a conversion of an allowance not expressed in terms of working time into a fixed period. In the meantime, article 31 of the draft law on various provisions in the social field, adopted by the commission, aims to provide for a delegation to the King, giving him the competence to describe how the period for which compensation must be refused should the worker receive compensation not expressed in terms of working time due to the termination of the employment contract. This delegation to the expected King is therefore a first response to the jurisprudence's finding that the current regulations do not regulate the conversion of such severance pay into a period for which incapacity for work benefits must be refused. My administration has already discussed the concrete execution of this delegation to the King with the National Intermutualist College at several meetings. The draft royal decree concretizing the above-mentioned delegation will be further discussed in the coming months within the management committee of the INAMI Compensation Service. However, I can also announce that I also intend – through this royal decree still to be taken – to bring the rules of unemployment insurance into line with those of unemployment insurance with regard to the cumulation of incapacity for work benefits and allowances granted as a result of the termination of the employment contract. This harmonisation, ensuring uniform treatment of unemployed insured persons and insured persons with incapacity for work, can be determined by royal decree. In this context, I note that the King already has the power to limit the concept of remuneration as defined in the Act of 12 April 1965 on the protection of workers' remuneration for the refusal to grant incapacity for work compensation. Finally, my administration informed me that a review of the cases in question – seven in total – will take place within the meaning laid down by the French-speaking labour court in Brussels, so that the compensation for incapacity for work and more recovery of the compensation awarded can be combined. Other cases pending before the courts or not contested will be subject to control measures in a second stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u16	Minister, I understand part of your answer, but I did not understand part two. For the seven persons who brought an appeal, it will be settled, but what about those who did not bring an appeal? Could you explain it to me a little more clearly because, honestly, I didn't get it too well?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u17	I said that they will be subject to control measures in a second phase. I also said we're working on it right now. If you wish, I will send you a written copy of my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u18	If I understand correctly, they will not be set aside but their situation will be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u19	I do not add anything to what is stated in my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u20	Minister, I have the right to ask you for an explanation because I want to share your answer with the people who asked me. But before I can explain it to others, I have to understand it myself and control it. In any event, I accept your proposal to give me a copy of your answer. I'll let them know about this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u21	We can therefore turn to Mrs Lanjri's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u22	But I had two questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u23	They were attached. I thought you asked both questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u24	No, I only asked for one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u25	We've been there all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u26	Actually, I also thought, but maybe I was distracted, that the two questions had been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u27	I felt like you answered both. Time for the second question was included in the questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u28	I didn't follow the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u29	The minister therefore answered your second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u30	Anyway, I tried to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u31	I will be content with the two answers that the minister will send me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u32	Minister, many private ambulance services are currently understaffed and are often unable to hire new professional ambassadors because their budget is too small. Very often they rely on volunteers. Volunteers are, of course, not employees. There is a very creative approach to voluntary legislation in the field, which is not intended for this purpose. For example, certain entrepreneurs have both a bvba and a non-profit organisation. They tell their employees that they have to work partly through the bvba and partly as a volunteer through the non-profit organisation. Eventually they work in the same buildings and that is not really a form of volunteering, but a hidden way for employers to pay less. The voluntary law does not actually allow this, but in this case the legal employer is often different, but one still works in the same buildings. This violates the rights of the paramedics and also puts patients at risk, because the risk of professional errors is very high when one shifts after another. First they work a shift as an employee and then they work a number of hours as a so-called volunteer. I have already raised this problem with Mrs De Block, your predecessor. At that time, it provided, among other things, more resources, namely EUR 70 million. However, she herself indicated that the grant should actually amount to EUR 140 million per year in order to meet the needs. At present, the amount of the allowance is about half of it. The Labour Inspectorate has already launched several investigations into possible breaches of labour law in the ambulance services. A lot of pro-justitia have been prepared and delivered to the labour auditorates. However, this has so far led to little progress. The abuses continue to occur. How do you intend to deal with these abuses? Can you get more inspection services to act and do samples to really give a signal? Are you prepared to adapt and refine voluntary legislation so that it cannot be avoided either legally or in the facts? Do you think it is necessary to amend the status of the paramedics? How are you going to do that? Can you provide additional resources for urgent medical assistance so that they can provide better services? What time frame do you see for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u33	Those are not so simple issues, Mrs Lanjri. You're asking me how I want to deal with the abuses. The aspects relating to working conditions and their control, carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, responsible for the supervision of social legislation, fall within the competence of Minister Dermagne, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. The RSZ inspection investigates compliance with social security legislation, but investigations concerning the status of the volunteer cannot be isolated. However, I can inform you that studies have been carried out in the healthcare sector in 2020 and 2021. No distinction can be made between private and other ambulance services. The distinction is made only on the basis of the legal form. Approximately 60% of the investigations carried out led to findings. However, they did not give rise to a pro-justitia, but to a criminal report, a warning or a regularisation. For 2020, this led to regularisations for a total amount of EUR 225,800. For 2021, this gave rise to regularisations for a total amount of EUR 153.00. You ask me if I am prepared to clarify the voluntary legislation in order to prevent such abuses. Voluntary ambulances do not fall within the scope of the Law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers. This is a category of ambulances covered by a specific statute whose fees are governed by Article 17c of the RSZ Decision. It provides that voluntary ambulances for the exceptional benefits defined in this Article are not subject to social security. However, this provision does not exempt employers from compliance with labour law in a broad sense. Persons who believe that the voluntary status is being abused can always contact the competent inspection services. They will then investigate further whether or not infringements have occurred. You ask me if I am thinking of other adjustments to improve the statute. Further possible adjustments to improve the status of the ambulance workers will be taken into account in a broader exercise, including programming, recognition and development. These various aspects are examined by my administration, in this case the FPS Public Health. You ask me whether I will continue to invest in urgent medical care and whether I will provide a timetable for additional investment. I am well aware that the financing of urgent medical aid is a structural deficit. This deficit is due to the historical context and the way in which past responsibilities were organised. At the start of the single call number and the first services of urgent medical assistance in 1964, the responsibility for providing assistance to the sick and injured on the territory was with the Centres of Public Service, the COOs which later became the OMCWs. A number of municipalities and OCMW's have organised these services themselves within their own organisation, at the local fire department or the local OCMW hospital or by making concessions to an external partner. However, the responsibility of the local authorities and the COOs has over time disappeared from the municipal laws, but urgent medical care has continued to exist. Since the law of 8 July 1964 on urgent medical assistance states that the King lays down the procedures for the operation and management of urgent medical assistance and the standards which the services must meet in order to be recognized by the Minister for Health, it has been the Minister for Health who has taken the initiative to make structural improvements to the financing of the services by means of an annual allowance. I note that, if resources are requested for urgent medical aid today, only the federal government and, in particular, health are still being looked at. From your question I think I can conclude that I can count on your support if I came to Parliament with a dossier in order to overcome that structural deficit by increasing the budget for urgent medical aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u34	Of course, Minister, you can count on our support to deal with the abuses that have been committed. Regardless of whether it needs to be regulated in the voluntary law or through their specific statute, we need to deal with it. At the moment there are checks, but they do not always lead to convictions. I must say that I am pleased that there are also some regularizations. It does mean that there are abuses on the ground, which means that we miss out on RSZ resources, for example. We also put patients at risk when ambulances have to perform different shifts in succession. It is therefore important that these abuses are dealt with. It is necessary to provide for a proper statute. The necessary resources must be sought for this, a difficult search which is primarily the responsibility of the government. You can certainly count on our support to improve the status of paramedics.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u35	Minister, on January 2, the press reported significant progress in reforming the status of arts workers. Indeed, it could be read that "the drafting of legal texts had begun". Do you confirm this information? If that is the case, we welcome the progress of this reform. In what way has the opinion of the National Labour Council been incorporated into these texts and in what way will the differences of opinion following the conclusion of the WITA note be arbitrated? Furthermore, can you let us know what the agenda forecasts are? When do you think we can hope to start the debate on this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u36	In a sense, I'm sorry because my answer is short. I can therefore confirm that the drafting of the legal texts began directly after receiving the opinion of the National Labour Council on 7 December. The various federal administrations have been fully involved in the participatory journey from the beginning. Officials who are in the process of drafting regulations participated in the various technical working groups and in the discussion within the National Labour Council. Drafting of the texts has not yet been finalized. The technical working group for the sector was convened to discuss the implications of the NTC opinion. On Thursday 13 January, so tomorrow, the members of the CNT are invited to discuss with the technical working group of the sector. After the finalisation of the regulations, the three competent ministers will submit them to the government. I hope to reach an agreement in the first quarter of 2022. Then formal opinions will be sought and the government will pass on the legal provisions to Parliament. It's an important project. I believe that we share this vision of things. I believe that time should not be wasted and that is the meaning of your question, to which I hope I have answered, with this confirmation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u37	Minister, thank you. That is indeed important information. I hope that as a result of the discussions you will have tomorrow with the technical group and with all the people working on this reform, we can imagine having clearer opinions and clearer information on arbitration. I shall rest the question either with you or with your colleague Mr Dermagne. Since the opinions of the National Labour Council, and thanks to the feedback we can have, we know that there is still an arbitration to be made, clearly, on the question of the functioning of the Commission, its renewal and, of course, the question of the role of the Communities. In order to avoid the arrival of the key text on the door in Parliament, I hope that we can possibly have an exchange of views, why not in a few weeks' time, on the work under way. I think, as you have said, that we must not waste time and that at the most we will have the opportunity to discuss as the work progresses, at the most, when they are ready to be voted on, we can move forward quickly. At least that's what I want us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u38	Madam President, in my turn, I wish everyone a fantastic 2022. Minister, as agreed in the government agreement, the government is stepping up efforts to encourage the reintegration of long-term unfit workers. This is in the interests of those concerned, who want nothing more than to get to work as quickly as possible, and in the interests of society as a whole and of the affordability of our social security. We simply cannot afford to write half a million people at work for the labour market. Everyone also sees that the labour market is at a very low rate at the moment. During the budget negotiations in 2021, the government adopted an ambitious plan to strengthen reintegration. All parties concerned shall be placed in charge of their responsibility. For example, sanctions will be imposed on both the sickness funds and the workers concerned if the questionnaire, which gives an idea of the worker's ability to return to work, is not completed. The figures that De Standaard collected from the sickness funds are alarming. At the moment, no less than four out of ten long-term sick people do not fill in the questionnaire. That is a lot and shows that a stick behind the door is more than necessary. After all, it is a small effort. In view of the urgency of all this, I do not think we can wait until 2023, when the sanctions come into force, for action to be taken against this refusal. Minister, what measures will you take in the short term to raise awareness of the disabled workers concerned in order to fill in the questionnaire? How do you intend to involve the health insurance funds, which play a crucial role, in the problem? What is the timing of the roll-out of the response of workers, employers and health insurance funds to strengthen integration, particularly with regard to the introduction of sanctions, when there is absolutely no cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u39	Minister, when I hear Mrs De Jonge's previous question, I can see where the pressure on this regulation comes from. In the course of 2022, you want to introduce the much discussed sanctions for long-term sick people. The debate on this subject is far from over. In the first phase, several members of the majority claimed that a sanction of 2.5 % was really not much. Last year I said several times that 2.5 % of an average of 1,200 euros is a lot, because 30 euros means a few days of food for these people. Now there is another element in this debate, namely the number of possible sanctions. A broad survey of the newspaper De Standaard at the sickness funds shows that in 2021, as already mentioned, 40% of all long-term sick people did not complete the mandatory questionnaire. Of the questionnaires received, at least one third had not been correctly completed. This means that currently 6 out of 10 questionnaires are not in order. On the basis of these figures, 15,000 of the 25,000 annually to accompany long-term sick people risk being punished. Not only the PVDA-PTB opposes this. The Chairman of the Christian Mutualities, Luc Van Gorp, said: "This is clearly about more than unwillingness. People do not always understand the form, they forget it or are unable to fill it in." Together with the trade unions, he still opposes the introduction of this sanction. How will the 60 back-to-work coordinators be able to help 15,000 people fill out the questionnaires correctly? Can you guarantee that no beneficiary will lose part of the benefit because he does not understand, cannot fill in or forget the questionnaire? What do you think is the added value of sanctions in this context? Why not opt for voluntary routes as recommended by the NAR?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u40	Mrs De Jonge, Mr Colebunders, in reply to your questions, I believe that we can, together with some satisfaction, see that the issue of providing employment opportunities to long-term sick people continues to affect the media. That's good, because that keeps the theme alive. I would like to add that the issue is often approached from the point of view of employment, the economy and the budget, but I am also addressing it from the point of view of public health. We offer people a real perspective of getting back to work, despite, for example, permanent injury caused by a condition, illness or accident, or despite the fact that that condition may become partly chronic. If we offer a real perspective of getting back to work, then we are doing something good, including for the health of those people. There may be a huge economic and employment problem of half a million people, but instead we must say that we are already very satisfied with everyone we can give perspective to. That brings me to the point that offers perspective for many people is absolutely not evident. We need help and support. The questionnaires to which you both refer should be understood as an instrument that allows for help and support for people affected by long-term illness, but who may still have the chance to get back to work. Of course, I also read the article in De Standaard. First of all, it seems to me useful to note that the journalist of De Standaard had to rely on a survey with the sickness funds. That is good, and it is also good that the sickness funds can respond, but at the same time illustrates that there is a lack of regulation as it existed before we started this reform. Everyone is talking about this questionnaire and its importance, but there is nothing about it in the legislation, not about its form or how it is sent or how it is to be completed and its registration and monitoring. In fact, that is completely detached from any regulatory framework. This may also explain the fact that there is indeed a discrepancy between insurance institutions as to how they pass on that questionnaire and how they frame it for insured persons. At the same time, for me, this means that in the reverse sense one might be surprised at the fact that between 60% and 80% of insured persons fill out the questionnaire and that people do not think it is so useless to fill it out. The differences in the framework and explanation of the sending of the questionnaire are also likely to form the basis of the different scores among the different insurance institutions. I do not want to make any further comments on this or draw any conclusions on it, because this has not yet been defined in the legislation at all. Just because I think that a good scientifically substantiated questionnaire can be a useful tool for the grading and assessment by the medical consultant and the back-to-work coordinator, I have the shipping, the question of filling in and the further use of it in a draft decision that implements the law we have adopted here. This decision will be taken on Friday for a second reading at the Council of Ministers, after which it will soon be published in the Belgian Official Journal. In addition to the fact that it provides a regulatory anchor to the questionnaire, the decision also states how insurance institutions are deemed to assist and support those insured persons who cannot complete the questionnaire on their own. The return-to-work coordinator is best placed to sensitise these people, but can also support them in completing them. He or she is not alone in this, there is a multidisciplinary team around the consulting doctor, who can also play a role in this. We deliberately took the deadline for sending the questionnaire from eight to ten weeks because in that period between eight and ten weeks more than 30,000 people are going to work spontaneously. As a result, we avoid having 30,000 people fill out a questionnaire that is no longer really relevant to them. This can also explain part of the existing non-fill-in found by De Standaard. The shift from eight to ten weeks was mainly aimed at making succession more efficient and faster. I would certainly also like to look with the insurance institutions at how to improve communication on this questionnaire. When we see in the figures that an insurance institution can halve the non-response by also providing a paper flow of information, we clearly still have room for improvement. I also see a role for patient associations in the communication actions to be carried out. There is currently consultation with all stakeholders involved in the process. This means that the insurance institutions are involved, now and for every element of the process, such as the processes, the IT systems, the communication and the field of accountability. The fact that the palpability of the response measures is in the year 2023 does not alter the fact that all stakeholders are already being addressed and sensitised this year. Of course, we want to give the opportunity to adapt to the changed framework before institutions or people are financially charged for it. I have often explained what kind of behaviour of people in what context could give rise to a sanction. I am not under any illusions that you and your fellow party members will not stop saying that failing to fill in the questionnaire simply results in 2.5 % less benefit. I am not under any illusions that when we discuss the draft law on this matter, which is now before the Council of State for its opinion, in committee, we will not hear the same thing again. Mr Colebunders, I will try again to explain. The draft law provides that a sanction may be imposed if the insured person has not completed the questionnaire, after an offer of assistance in filling it by the TNW coordinator, and subsequently after a written warning does not respond to an invitation from the medical adviser to evaluate his or her medical condition. So there are a lot of steps in that. I think I have already explained to your colleague, Mrs Merckx, that a complete suspension of the benefit is, in principle, already a general rule today as a sanction for failing to respond to an invitation to medical evaluation. In so doing, the insured persons for whom the medical adviser, on the basis of medical documents or other documents at his disposal, considers that there are reasonable medical grounds for not sending them a questionnaire, will not be sent a questionnaire anyway. When can a sanction be applied? This is possible for an insured person for whom the medical adviser considers that, provided that assistance, guidance and assistance are available, there is an opportunity for adapted work, but who does not show up after an invitation to an exploratory interview with the TNW coordinator. The purpose of this exploratory discussion is to discuss the possibilities and to explain without obligation the possible services and support for this purpose. In my view, Mr Colebunders, these various elements which can give rise to sanctions, the way in which they are described and how they are developed step by step, constitute a very human approach. I also think this should be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You say that the figures were probably influenced by the fact that many people have not completed the list in view of the 8 to 10 week period. I am glad that you take this issue seriously. It is clear that everyone must be held responsible. If it depends on us, it can happen quickly. You have also confirmed the need for consultation with the mutualities as soon as possible and for consideration to be given to a policy of sanctions. After all, it must be acknowledged that a number of people deliberately do not want to go to work. However, we do not want witch hunts for people who are seriously ill. I am very pleased that you stress that it must be a human process. That's what I agree with. It is also important to point out that these lists need to be consistently completed and updated, because they contain a clear gradation of what people can and can no longer do. I am very pleased to hear that we are in line with a human approach, but we need to ensure that all partners are responsive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u42	Minister, you say that we continue to complain about the same point, but so do you. You're just spinning around the pot when we all know where this leads. If two out of three lead to dismissal, you should also be aware that completing such a questionnaire is a problem. Have you ever looked at a questionnaire like this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u44	That list basically means the sick person feels guilty and thinks it's his fault that he's sick. All this dismissal procedure, linked to the questionnaire, comes down to two out of three cases. And if you don't fill out the list, you'll get a sanction. This means that 60% of these workers can be penalised. How many percent of employers do they have? Why don't you talk about that number? That is less than 1%. It is less than 1% of employers who have caused these people to fall out of work for a long time. You never talk about that. However, we will continue to insist on this, Minister. You know I'm right about that. When I look at the figures, we mainly see long-term sick people in the age group of the 55-plussers. That is the group that could have gone on a bridge pension in the past or with SWT. You can't do that right now. If you want to bring those people back into society with another job, is that the thanks that people who have spent 30 or 35 years wringing their necks for an employer? Eventually they get thanked, with at best another job, with which they will earn less, if they already find a job. They will then be discarded without compensation for cancellation. That's what it's all about. That is what we will continue to stress, Minister, over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u45	Mr Minister, since 1 January 2022, customers who have not paid membership fees for their sickness fund since 2019 have been given a two-year penalty period, namely 2022 and 2023. For two years, they lose both their right to all additional allowances for hearing aids, spectacles or maternity care, as well as supplementary dental or hospitalisation insurance. The penalty period also applies to those who paid the supplementary insurance all that time. Customers with a period of time may still be members of their sickness fund, but fall back on the statutory minimum, which is compulsory insurance. In 2021, due to the corona crisis, you postponed the penalty measure that already entered into force on 1 January 2021. However, although you yourself warn of the possible consequences of the omikron wave, you will no longer grant any delay for 2022. The problem affects many tens of thousands of vulnerable families throughout the country. If you are already in major financial difficulties, without hospitalisation insurance, you may be able to obtain a very expensive invoice after hospitalisation because of corona. Mr Minister, why are you continuing the liberal policy of sanctions of the previous government? Why didn't you give me another year's delay? Will you abolish the penalty period or suspension? If not, why don't you? Are you considering modifications? If so, what is your opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u46	Mr Colebunders, I would like to thank you for your question. She's a very important subject. Perhaps I will surprise you, but on that point we do not differ very much in terms of starting point. Allow me to clarify this. Legally, there are three types of supplementary insurance fund members today. They are defined in Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 7 March 1991. There is, firstly, the member who can benefit from the supplementary insurance services. A second type is the suspended member. Since we speak of an insurance where there is a premium in relation to a risk, a person who does not pay his contribution is suspended. A last type has been added to the 2018 Royal Decree. It concerns those members for whom the enjoyment of justice has been lifted. This is the situation, if you do not pay your supplementary insurance contribution 24 months in a row. These are three types of members of sickness funds. As you say yourself, we continue to have compulsory insurance, which fortunately still covers most of our care costs. Personally, I see an advantage from the fact that persons who may have underlying payment problems can remain members of a sickness fund. In fact, hospitals have extensive social services. It is therefore an additional opportunity to help them with a request for help. First of all, I will answer your question as to why we should not postpone further the application of the KB, which links consequences to the status of a member who has been removed. On the one hand, we do not do that because the transition from suspended to withdrawn Member has no immediate consequences in itself. In both situations, the benefits of supplementary insurance cannot be relied upon. On the other hand, and this is why we did postpone the scheme last year, the sickness funds have actively contacted their members during the past year, who also had free insurance with them, such as hospitalisation insurance or dental insurance, and the group was very small, so that they would be in general. If not, the insurance in question was terminated. In the case of free insurance, however, there is no choice but to end them if they do not pay for a long time, because they are covered by insurance legislation, which is also European legislation. In any case, therefore, perhaps we do not differ as much as I am aware that there is a problem. My policy cell is in contact with the associations where the poor speak, and with the sickness funds. I have asked the National Intermutualist College, together with the poverty groups, to formulate solutions that maintain the balance between duties. Of course, there has to be a reasonable contribution to make and rights. I expect that proposal at any time and will ask for the advice of the Health Insurance Office on this matter. Personally, I think that the current regime, whereby, for example, if one wants to regularise with the help of an OCMW and then faces a waiting period of two years before one can enjoy benefits again, is indeed very difficult. Maybe that just discourages the people from putting themselves back together again. As far as your last question is concerned, therefore, I am certainly prepared to make an adjustment here on the basis of the proposal that I have asked the National Intermutualist College and the Poverty Associations to do so. I hope that will be possible in the short term. I cannot tell you today exactly what the content of the measure will be, but I would like to invite you to return to it in the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic654x.u47	There is no doubt, Minister, that we will return to this in the next few weeks. Until you receive that advice, I am calling for a postponement, as you did last year. What's to stop you from prolonging the delay until you've received that advice? The fifth wave has actually started, so the virus is definitely not gone yet. You granted a postponement last year, and that is perfectly possible this year. Not only are we asking for this, but also, above all, for the associations of poverty. I think I have understood that we do not differ very much on this issue, so I am waiting hopefully.
