ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u1	Question No 55026218C by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u2	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the Telecommunications Ombudsman received much more complaints about Scarlet in 2021 than in the previous year. He talks about an increase of 122% and is the only company that does less well than in 2020. In addition, the Ombudsman states that "the persistence of the problems and dysfunctions identified is a phenomenon that the Mediation Service has rarely been confronted with before". It would appear that Proximus' subsidiary does not comply with its contractual obligations, that it does not show professionalism or diligence, according to the mediator. The most frequent complaints concern the change of subscription and the Easy Switch procedure, which, as its name suggests, should allow for an easy change of operator to allow consumers to compete. In your opinion and the government, this is the way to combat high telecommunications tariffs in Belgium. Madam Vice-First, what was your reaction to the reading of the Ombudsman's report and, more specifically, to Scarlet, a subsidiary of Proximus? What are you planning to facilitate the use of the Easy Switch procedure visibly not so easy that this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u3	Mr D'Amico, thank you for this question concerning the increase in the number of complaints concerning Scarlet to the Mediation Service and the need to make Easy Switch more easily accessible. After reading the report of the Telecommunications Mediation Service, of course, my attention was drawn, as for you, to the dramatic increase in consumer complaints about Scarlet. As Minister for Telecommunications, you are no doubt aware that I am particularly committed to the observance of the rules by all the players in the sector, whether to promote competition or to safeguard consumer rights. I therefore had the opportunity to speak with the author of the report, as well as with the new francophone mediator who took up his duties very recently. On the other hand, it is important to stress that I really count on the vigilance of the IBPT, which has the power of control and sanction, especially when complaints to the Telecommunications Mediation Service reveal structural problems in order not to be left behind. I know that the IBPT, the independent regulator of the telecommunications sector, always analyses in detail the annual reports of the Mediation Service, discusses them with it and plans its control actions in the light of the structural deficiencies that emerge from these analyses and discussions. I hope that this will also be the case following this recent annual report and that, if necessary, appropriate compliance measures will be imposed on Scarlet. This will be done impartially, objectively, transparently, non-discriminatoryly and proportionately as planned. The IBPT also informs me that a monitoring of compliance with the current Royal Easy Switch Order is currently under way. We're seeing him again. This includes checking whether Easy Switch is actually proposed as a standard migration process and, if not, whether this has been explicitly agreed with the subscriber as it should be. This is a persistent problem that the Mediation Service had already raised in the past. Scarlet's practices in this regard are also monitored. Following an evaluation of Easy Switch by the IBPT and some exchanges with the sector, a number of reforms of the Royal Easy Switch Order are under preparation. I will list a few proposals for consumers: 1. The provision of additional and better information to the subscriber during the supplier change process in order to act more quickly to avoid possible double billings, i.e. billing by the new operator and another by the old one. 2. A reform of the Easy Switch ID - the code that subscribers must provide to initiate the migration of their service or bundled offer of services. I propose that this identifier include a control number that would report false IDs when they are entered into a store order system or online order system so that erroneous codes could not be passed on to the former operator. These erroneous codes have also resulted in double billings. 3. The introduction of measures to make the Easy Switch identifier easier to find, for example on the operator's invoice and application. This identifier must also be able to be requested by telephone. 4. The introduction of additional compensation in case of delay in the activation of new services or interruption of long-term services. The amount of the existing compensation if a technician has not been able to come because of his own negligence will be increased from 10 to 30 euros per missed appointment. Some compensations will be granted automatically without the customer having to ask for them. I asked Scarlet for more information. The company would have encountered computer problems - according to their comments - and operational problems, which had affected a number of customers. Aware of this, Scarlet undertook the appropriate actions and resolved their root causes. Computer and operational performance have been stabilized and the number of complaints has returned to the previous level. In the longer term, Scarlet will invest in new IT developments to have an improved and more robust infrastructure to support its structural growth. That's his answer. To finish and more precisely regarding Easy Switch, they encountered problems that led to billing the customer even after the actual departure to its new supplier - a problem described above. Further improvements are still underway to provide clients with the seamless experience they deserve. That is the information I can give you in response to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u4	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I refer here to the annual report that Members have received from the Telecommunications Mediation Service. He says that operators do not apply or apply very little. Although we are making new reforms and forcing this system, if these same operators do not apply it, at some point we are forced to crack down. That's what I expect of you if they don't follow the procedure, otherwise there's no point in establishing a procedure. You told me in your answer that if they didn't respect, there would be sanctions. I hope you go so far. However, it is all consumers who are being harmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u5	I replied that it is the IBPT that has a mandate to carry out such checks and to sanction. It's not my jurisdiction to punish Scarlet. It's at the IBPT, the regulator. It is up to him to see where the problems are and possibly to intervene and sanction if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u6	Question No 55026762C by Mrs Len Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u7	Madam Minister, in September I asked you about the progress of the reform of the social tariff for telecommunications. You then hoped that this bill would be completed by the end of 2021, but unfortunately that did not work. It is a major reform which requires a great deal of work, and this takes time, but a lot of people are waiting for that reform because it can mean a lot in their specific situation. With the sharp increase in life expectancy, a social tariff for telecommunications for vulnerable people will certainly not come a day too early. You have indicated that you want to reform the target group so that more people can benefit from the social rate. I already addressed the problem of the target group "persons with disabilities." The conditions they have to meet are very strict and also different from the conditions for the social tariff for energy and water, with regard to other definitions. For example, only persons with at least 66% disability or disability and those with a reduction in self-reliance of at least 9 points are eligible for the social rate. In addition, the income for the whole family should not exceed the ceiling set by the RIZIV to qualify for an increased allowance. A lot of people with disabilities fall out of the boat that way. You also indicated that you would work on an automation of the social tariff. You are aware of Mr Van den Bergh's and myself's proposal, which was adopted in committee in July 2020 and concerned automatic allocation. You indicated that this reform would be included in the global reform. So it kept waiting for the automatic allocation, but in the meantime we are two years further. It's too bad we haven't been able to settle this yet. I'd rather see it different. A lot of people don't take their social rights on their own because they don't know. The automatic allocation was a solution. I regret that the legally adopted initiative was blocked because it would be taken into account in a global reform, which, however, is still not complete. I understand the difficulties in this respect. How far do you stand with your bill to reform the social tariff for telecommunications? Last year you said that the texts with the different modalities would be in public consultation in the coming weeks. What were the main conclusions? Has any decision been taken on the reform of the target group? What slopes are on the table? What will happen for people with disabilities? Will the income condition be abolished for them? Finally, you instructed BIPT to monitor the situation regarding mobile services and packs to see whether a social discount on these services could be justified. What are the conclusions on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u8	Mrs Lanjri, the preliminary draft law on the reform of social charges for electronic communications has, as you know, been the subject of public consultation. At the moment BIPT and the FPS Economy, together with my cabinet, are analysing the contribution we have received as part of the consultation. We shall look into the results of this analysis and what adjustments may be needed to the preliminary draft. Then, of course, it must be discussed at political level and follow the usual legislative procedure. So we are really close to the final stage, but of course I cannot yet communicate on the conclusions of the public consultation because I have not yet seen the analysis myself. The introduction to your question compares the conditions currently applicable to the beneficiaries of the social telecommunications tariff for persons with disabilities with those applicable to the social tariff for energy. As you know, as far as energy is concerned, the social tariff is currently being granted to beneficiaries of the increased subsidy. The preliminary draft law submitted for consultation proposes to bring the categories of the social telecommunications tariff into line with the current categories of beneficiaries of the social energy tariff, i.e. persons receiving an increased concession. We follow the same logic. Persons with disabilities are entitled to the increased allowance under the Law of 27 February 1987 on allowances to persons with disabilities or an older allowance under the Law of 27 June 1969 on the granting of allowances to disabled persons, in so far as that allowance is still paid. This is the case if it is more favourable than the concession provided for in the 1987 Act. It's a bit technical, but that's the scheme that's currently valid for people with disabilities. The proposal to reform social rates therefore includes people with disabilities who fulfil the conditions for the status of increased benefits. That is what we are proposing. Then I come to your question about the social tariff for mobile services. You know that the European Electronic Communications Code provides that a social tariff may be applied to mobile services, but only if the circumstances of the national market so warrant. In connection with this, BIPT has now clearly indicated that affordable tariff offers are available on the mobile market and that it is therefore not possible to require operators to offer a mobile social tariff to the same conditions as we use for the fixed social tariff. The draft law submitted for consultation therefore proposes a limited social tariff for mobile services to improve the situation of persons experiencing communication difficulties, for example due to sensory impairment. We have inspired ourselves on an Italian example, where appropriate. We know that, according to European legislation, this cannot be contested. Only for people with sensory limitations will there be a social tariff for mobile services, not for others.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u9	Madam Secretary, I'm glad there's finally some light at the end of the tunnel. You're saying that the bill is definitely in the final stage. I look forward to seeing it treated here. Hopefully we will soon be able to approve it in plenary. It is also good that the definitions are harmonised, which I have always called for. The definition of the social tariff for energy is now different from that of the social tariff for telecommunications. Finally, it is also good that people with disabilities will be eligible if they are recognised. I understand that people with visual disabilities will be taken into account with regard to mobile telephony. I look forward to discussing and approving the design here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u10	This ends the questioning session for Minister De Sutter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u11	Mr President, Mr Minister, the European Commission finally presented its proposal for a European directive on due diligence in the sustainable development of enterprises on 23 February after many months of procrastination. This text was very much expected by trade unions, NGOs and businesses, but also by our parliamentarians, who are working on a Belgian law on the duty of vigilance. Like the proposal I have tabled with other colleagues in the House, this text aims to oblige companies to ensure respect for human rights and the environment throughout value chains, to oblige Member States to establish a supervisory authority and to provide compensation for victims in the event of damage. I want to rejoice here with an important step in the right direction. I said one step. It's not enough, but it's a step in the right direction. Belgium must now, in accordance with the government agreement, play a leading role in supporting the development of this legislative framework. We must also work, while listening to civil society, to raise the level of ambition. I am thinking in particular of the narrow scope of application, since more than 99% of companies are excluded, or of the access of victims to justice, which needs to be strengthened in procedural terms. Finally, we must continue the work undertaken in Parliament to provide us with a national support framework. Here are my questions. Have you read the draft directive of the European Commission? I suspect your answer is yes, but what is your reaction to that? That's what interests me. Is there already an estimate of the number of companies that would fall under the supervision of the Belgian Supervisory Authority within the meaning of Article 17 of the draft directive? I quoted a somewhat optimistic figure earlier. What will be Belgium's position at the level of the discussions that will now begin at Council level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u12	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, thank you for your question. Of course, I shared your impatience at the arrival of this draft directive on due diligence in the sustainable development of enterprises. It was, as you said, expected for several months and this first step, we obviously welcomed it positively. We have read the text as soon as it is published. First of all, I would say that the first merit of this text is to be able to launch the debate on this important subject, particularly at European level in an institutional way, on a subject which, in my opinion and in your opinion as well - I am sure and I have just heard it again - is an extremely important subject. My administration is currently examining the number of Belgian companies that would fall within the scope of the Directive as proposed by the European Commission. The criteria set out by the Commission in its proposal will, as you know, still have to pass the crucial stage of the debate with the other European co-legislators. As you are also aware, criticism of the proposed scope has already been expressed, in particular, by the European Parliament. The number of companies that could fall within the scope of the draft directive today may therefore not correspond to the reality at the end of the legislative process. Important work still needs to be done at European level. At this stage, it is premature to speak of a Belgian position in the context of the Council's discussions, given that these discussions have not yet really started. Coordination of work at Belgian level is in the process of being established. Of course, my administration and my staff will participate fully, in accordance with the commitment made by the government you have reiterated on your question, to play a leading role in the development of a European legislative framework. I am therefore confident that we will discuss this issue again in the coming weeks and months. This is indeed an essential element. I spoke to this one yesterday with my Dutch counterpart. The will is to try, as is often the case with subjects such as these, to rally to Belgium's position a series of like-minded states with which we are used to working. This was one of the subjects that was the subject of the bilateral discussion we had yesterday in Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u13	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. You are sending an encouraging, positive and ambitious signal. Positive and ambitious because the bill as we tabled it in Parliament with other colleagues goes beyond what is required by the directive or, in any case, the draft directive. It is therefore necessary both to work on the level of ambition and to ensure that responsibility is clearly respected throughout the value chain. It is, for us, a vital element. Apart from the legal debates on the notions of responsibility, the definitions of labour law, etc., much remains to be done. In addition, Commissioner Reynders' hearing is scheduled for the next few weeks. On this occasion, we will also be able to work together. I have heard you say that contacts are being made with some of your European counterparts who agree with the Belgian Government's position on the subject, which I welcome. Mr President, I will conclude my speech by saying that, in preparing the bill that we have tabled, we have consulted a wide range of parliaments, including the Dutch Parliament. As a whole, he had welcomed the Belgian proposal's initiative by saying that there was probably a job of hope there, with the hope of being able to complete the Dutch legislative arsenal which, for its part, mainly penalized child labour, without going any further. So, indeed, we have a lot of work to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u14	Mr Minister, asking a question about the basic banking service for companies is almost becoming one of my own. On 8 November 2020, we adopted this law. However, we are still waiting for its implementing decisions. I have already asked you several questions about this, as at the committee meeting of 12 January 2022. Then you replied that the law needed to be amended so that a legal basis could be established for the processing of personal data. An opinion from the GBA would also be requested. In addition, the implementation measures had to be prepared. You would like to achieve this in the first half of this year. However, many questions from entrepreneurs still come to our attention. They are still waiting for this legislation. We therefore hope that it will be soon. I therefore have a few questions. What is the state of play in the preparation of a preliminary draft law to amend the law of 8 November 2020? In the meantime, have you received the advice of the GBA? If yes, can you explain the opinion and the preliminary draft law was amended? What is the state of play in the preparation of the implementing decisions? When can we expect the draft law in Parliament? When is the entry into force effectively foreseen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u15	Minister, since the entry into force of the 2017 Anti-Money Laundering Act, the National Bank has seen a significant increase in the number of de-risking actions in financial institutions. The National Bank has also written a circular on this issue. She says, among other things, that financial institutions, i.e. banks, still have to fulfil their obligations. For example, they must respect the anti-discrimination legislation which also applies to companies. I quote: "The National Bank confirms that it is not appropriate, nor in accordance with the legal requirements, that the client acceptance policy of a financial institution, as a rule, excludes all business relationships with potential or existing customers on the basis of a general criterion, such as the fact that these clients belong to a particular industry or have links with a high-risk country." So it's obvious. The National Bank says white man's de-risking is against the law. We see from the circular of the National Bank that they only act when there is an effective threat of damage to our economy. Many companies have the same problem. That's why I have the following questions. Have you taken note of this circular? How do you judge this one? What measures will you take to meet this circular? In what way will you ensure that banks do not exclude certain potential clients on the basis of general criteria? Did you also discuss this with your fellow Finance Minister, as it also concerns this issue? Finally, what is the timetable for the implementation of the various KBs on the basic business banking service?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u16	Mrs Dierick and Mr Freilich, thank you for your questions. I have indeed taken note of the circular of the National Bank. This circular is a valuable instrument in the fight against de-risking. It is important that banks respect their obligations regarding anti-money laundering legislation and obligations under the Code of Economic Law. The circular will guide the exercise of the powers covered by the FPS Economy, and I will remind the banks that the circular must be followed closely in the application of the legislative initiatives on the basic banking service for enterprises. The introduction of the basic banking service for companies, with due respect for the anti-money laundering provisions, sets up a system to ensure that certain high-risk sectors such as diamonds are not excluded and that payment services are available to them. That's very important. If appropriate, a consultation with my colleague, the Minister for Finance, will be scheduled. Ms Dierick, following the advice of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority, the Act of 8 November 2020 was amended. This preliminary draft law was submitted to the GBA, which issued an opinion on 17 February 2022. The preliminary draft law was adapted to the comments of the GBA. Those comments mainly concerned the question of further clarification, in order to provide full transparency to those concerned. The implementing decision was already adapted to the opinion of the GBA, which was issued on 8 October 2021. At the moment, my administration is working on the operationalization of the basic banking service room. The objective is to adopt the amendments to the Law of 8 November 2020 in July 2022 and to implement the Implementing Decision by the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We look forward to what you will be presenting in June or July, or at least before recess, so that the entry into force can take place. Because I think the need is very high. A lot of companies are waiting for that. Apart from that, the government has already been convicted by the court because there is still no basic banking service. We absolutely must avoid that. That's why I hope it's all there now. I hope that this was the last time I had to put an oral question on this and that we could push the green vote button so that the basic banking service could operate effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's a good thing we're working on the basic banking service. However, I would like to point out that there are better solutions, for example as proposed by the European Commission when it comes to the justification for the reason why a particular client relationship is not entered into. If that motivation can be shared with a third party without affecting the anti-money laundering legislation and the tipping off, that may be an alternative solution. The basic banking service is and remains a basic package, not everything. It seems unfair to me to place a whole sector, including bona fide companies, with a basic banking service. In that context, I will table a legislative proposal very soon. I hope to support you in making this a beautiful project, along with you. Finally, you mentioned July 2022, but were you talking about the implementation of September or December? I didn't get that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u19	September.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u20	The entry into force is scheduled for September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u21	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the transposition of the European Directive 2019/882 of 17 April 2019 on accessibility requirements for products and services should take place by June 2022, before the summer parliamentary holidays. This Directive lays down accessibility requirements for key products and services such as telephones, computers, payment terminals or self-service terminals for the purchase of transport tickets at airports, consumer banking services, electronic communications services, including internet access, calls to emergency numbers such as 112, access to audiovisual media, e-books and e-commerce. Less valid people need autonomy, and this access allows them to do so. Minister, how is progress made? Will the directive be properly transposed by June? Are your cabinet, as well as those of all the competent ministers, working together on this transposition? The associations active in the field of disability very much hope that Belgium will be ambitious in its transposition. Can you confirm that? If so, can you explain to me the areas in which our country will be more demanding than the directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u22	Mr President, Mr Vicar, as you say, many different administrations and levels of power are involved in the transposition of this important directive. My services, in collaboration with the Social Security FPS, have wanted to take the initiative to monitor and coordinate the full transposition of this directive by all relevant administrative departments and levels. To this end, they shall hold regular consultations with all relevant departments, taking into account not only the full and timely transposition of the Directive, but also the appropriate consultation of stakeholders, in particular organisations representing persons with disabilities. The deadline for transposition is 28 June 2022. Belgium and all its public administrations concerned will endeavour, as they always do, to comply with the deadline for transposition. If, however, some parts of the text were to be delayed, we expect that this will cause little inconvenience since companies still have until June 2025 to comply with the elements contained in the directive, which will have to be transposed. My services, in collaboration with the Social Security FPS, have held regular consultations. In addition, thematic working groups were organized to assess, for example, the transposition of the Mobility component between the federal and regional levels. It is important to clarify that all levels of authority remain competent for the implementation of this Directive in their respective areas of competence. To date, all relevant government departments have always been actively involved in this consultation work with a strong commitment to completing this work and meeting the transposition deadline. At all times of consultation, my services and the Social Security FPS have always stressed the importance of adequate collaboration with the interest groups representing persons with disabilities in order to take their interests and daily reality into account as best possible in the transposition texts. I do not have an overall analysis to situate transposition in relation to the minimum level of the Directive. We will do this at the various stages within the respective governments and before your Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. This is a positive signal. I appreciate the work done in collaboration with the teams and representatives of those who are particularly concerned. We are waiting for an ambitious set-up in order to integrate all our citizens into these services. I look forward to seeing the results of your work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u24	Mr Minister, my question concerns a problem that gas station operators are currently facing. They buy their products at a certain price and are currently buying them at the maximum price. They must also comply with these maximum prices. However, the price for which they purchase is currently higher than the official maximum price. They may not sell their products at any loss either. They are currently doing so in practice, as the purchase price is higher than the official maximum price. This would mean that they would have to close down because they would not be able to comply with both laws. These laws are conflicting at the moment. This, of course, has a serious impact on the sector. If they stay open, they'll commit an intruder anyway. However, if they want to respect the law, they have no choice but to close it. Mr Minister, can you give some explanation of this problem? Will you schedule consultations or have you already consulted with the sector to find a solution? Which solutions are possible and which do you think are the best?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u25	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the maximum prices are calculated on the basis of the methodology set out in the programme agreement concluded between the oil sector represented by ENERGYIA and the federal government. Let me just outline the main cause of the current problem. When prices on international markets rise by more than 20% over 20 days, a dampening factor is applied to prices on international markets before they are included in the maximum price. That damping factor was activated from 4 March 2022 until 10 March 2022. This factor has jolted between 0.83 on 9 March and 0.97 on 4 March. A factor 0.83 means that prices on the international market fall by 17%. Depending on the petroleum product, this has an impact between 16 and 22 cents per litre, excluding VAT. Since 11 March, the situation has changed and the dampening factor is no longer active because oil prices have fallen in international markets. The ghost image of loss sales, which could lead to a disruption of supply, has disappeared. In that light, we have decided to entrust the FPS Economy with a mission. The task of the administration will be to better align the mitigating circumstances in the event of strong increases in the market, while at the same time ensuring that consumers are protected as far as possible against price increases and supply disruptions. A solution is therefore being actively sought to protect the consumer while at the same time preventing the distributor from selling at a loss.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand that the problem no longer arises today. From your reply, I conclude that it has been a good week. It is important to avoid going into this situation in the future. I hear your services are in consultation to see how this can be avoided in the future. I will continue to follow this, because legal certainty for the pump holders is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u27	Mr President, Minister, we have talked about the historic lifts here before. I am also very pleased that we have been able to reach an agreement on this issue on a broad basis, but that does not solve the problem. At the beginning of February, I asked you another question on the subject, and you indicated that a consultative group had been set up to find alternative technical solutions for the historic lifts, known as the Kinney method, and that a consultation with the Länder would take place on 27 October. At that time no further consultation was planned with the owners' associations. As regards the Kinney method I mentioned earlier, you replied that it was accepted as a method of risk analysis, but at the same time a reservation must be made. That's an apology, Mrs. Dierick. It's a rather "bad" answer. It all remains rather vague, while there is just a great deal of legal certainty for the installers who use the method and for the owners, who want to know if their lift can be used safely. How often did the Consultative Group on Alternative Technical Solutions come together? Who is the consultative group? What are the main points raised during the consultation? Have we come up with concrete new alternative technical solutions? How often has consultations been held with the Länder, including the planned consultations on 27 October? Can you explain that? In the meantime, how often has there been consultation with the owners' associations? Can you explain this as well? How many times was there a consultation between the FOD Economy, the FOD WASO and the EDTCs? Can you specify your previous answer on the position of the FPS Economy in relation to the Kinney method? What is the status of the amendments to the Royal Decree of 9 March 2003 on the safety of lifts? What is the concrete future timing and planning? When do you expect agreement on the new royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u28	Mrs Gilson is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u29	Mr Minister, my colleague Van Bossuyt has already listed a series of questions that we are also asking ourselves. I wanted to go back to the resolution we voted on 20 May 2021. Can you tell us what has already been done, in collaboration with the Regions and the groups of owners? What about the royal decree mentioned by my colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u30	Mr President, thank you for your questions, Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mr Vanden Burre. As far as the story is concerned, this is the first question you asked me when I became minister, Mrs Van Bossuyt. It concerned the historic elevators. I discovered the extent of my skills at that time. As previously communicated, the deadline for modernising lifts built before 1958 will initially be postponed on 31 December 2022 to 31 December 2023. If these lifts can present a certificate of historical value, the deadline will be postponed to 31 December 2027. The aim is to give the owners of these lifts sufficient time to find appropriate solutions for the mandatory modernisation of their lift. The consultation with stakeholders is ongoing, as foreseen in the 2003 review process of the KB, which regulates the safety and modernisation of lifts in Belgium. The SPF Economy also organises an annual consultation with all external services for technical checks at the workplace and the SPF Emploi, during which the issue of historic lifts is always on the agenda. The last consultation took place on 28 January. My administration has also organized two formal meetings with various representatives of ascendorists, including companies specialized in the modernization of historic elevators. Technical solutions from the SPF Economy will be developed in small working groups of experts, to which federated entities as well as owners' associations are also invited. In other European countries, the modernisation of lifts is not an obligation. My competent security administrations have asked their European colleagues about similar problems, but no useful feedback has yet been given. I am not aware of similar requests made directly by the regional administrations responsible for heritage preservation. As for the other requests contained in the resolution, the risk analysis has been the basis for the modernization of the elevators since the beginning, and I can only repeat that the Kinney method, to the extent that it is properly applied, has been accepted since the publication of the Royal Order on the Safety of Elevators in 2003. Secondly, the resolution provided for the organization of vocational technical training. This is not a federal but a regional jurisdiction. Several information brochures have, however, been published by the SPF Economy. They will, of course, be updated as soon as the Royal Decree is amended. Similarly, an information and communication campaign will be planned. With regard to the use of electronic security curtains, it is of course permissible for a modernising company to use them, provided that this is done safely. As for the surplus, my administration has already communicated on several occasions that this solution does not pose fundamental problems and is therefore one of the possible solutions for the security of some historic elevators.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I had asked some very specific questions, for example about the number of consultations with the Länder, co-owners and the FPS Economy, but I did not receive an answer to this, unless I was mistaken. I agree that you will still answer these questions in writing. I understand from your answer that the method is accepted, but I suppose it can be applied. In this respect, the answer of the FPS Economy was rather ambiguous, since according to that answer, the Kinney method was accepted as a method of risk analysis, but at the same time reservations had to be made. That's neither mussel nor fish. I understand from your answer that this method may indeed be applied. I had also asked very specifically about the further timing and planning of the new KB. I have not heard anything about this in your reply either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u32	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u33	As soon as possible, with us, that means earlier yesterday than today. It's probably gonna be tomorrow. I hope that the new KB will be there as soon as possible, because it will, of course, have to provide the necessary legal certainty for the owners' associations of historic lifts, so that they know exactly what to do. It would be a pity if we were to see such a beautiful heritage lost, all the more so because I have just heard you say that other Member States have no problems with the modernisation of historic lifts. There are many such lifts in our country and we must protect them at all times, without, of course, endangering safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will, of course, look in detail at all the elements that you have put forward, in particular the guidelines that you have specified and the implementation of the Royal Decree as soon as possible. I can hear you on the importance of the subject. I think we obviously have more important things to deal with in terms of the economy and your skills. It's more a wink than anything else. Our citizens are indeed affected by the heritage, whether they are tenants or owners. This is not only a question for owners of beautiful buildings in Brussels, Ghent or elsewhere in Belgium. This also concerns tenants who are affected by the fact that beautiful objects, in this case elevators, disappear from their heritage. At this level, it is of some importance, probably quite emotional. On the other hand, you know that we voted last May, majority as opposed, a resolution – that is not annoyance – and that is why I am trying to follow it up once a year. It is always important to be able to monitor the implementation of a resolution by the government. It is also part of our prerogatives. I know that the chairman of this committee is careful to ensure that the resolutions can be properly implemented. It seems to me important that we can integrate this project together, the majority as opposed. For this reason, and having seen both questions, I have joined in a transparent manner so that I do not come back to the subject every month. However, it seems to me important that, every six months or once a year, those who are the basis of the text come back here. And if we can solve this together, so much the better. It's on the right track, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u35	Mr President, Minister, just as important, the subject of floods! Assuralia has completed its annual review. The insurer has identified 86,000 claims and calculated that the burden of these claims was EUR 2.57 billion for the year 2021. With the ceiling limiting the insurance effort to 650 million euros, almost two billion more are at the taxpayers' expense. The Natural Disasters Act needs to be reviewed. As you know, we plead for a removal of the limit on the payment of benefits by insurers. We have, moreover, tabled a bill to that effect. In the newspaper L'Echo, I read that Assuralia says she is available to find a solution on the basis of "a partnership between insurers, public authorities and insureds". It is, word for word, the same wording that we were able to read in your general policy note. Barbara Van Speybroeck, spokesman for Assuralia, indicated in the newspaper Imagine that this was a suggestion on their part. When the ceiling on the payment of allowances was introduced by Charles Picqué, Socialist Minister of the Economy in 2003, it was already a suggestion of Assuralia, as can be read in the report of the discussions. Minister, did Assuralia write the bill? Why, once again, did you decide to take up their proposal rather than listen to the proposals of trade unions and consumer associations? Finally, I quote the newspaper Imagine which states that "the profits of the natural disaster branch in the fire insurance policies amounted to €4.25 billion for 2019 and 2020". Could it not therefore cover all these claims in relation to these figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u36	Mr President, honourable Member, first of all, I want to reassure you: it is not Assuralia who writes my texts and my bills and, in particular, the text on the reform of the insurance ceiling. However, the drafting of an insurance bill requires consideration of the insurance technique. I would also like to point out that, for the reform of the ceiling, we are advised by the experts of the National Bank of Belgium in order to ensure that this reform is guided not by particular interests but by the general interest. In the light of prudential rules, it is not possible to place the full burden of natural disaster claims on the insurance companies of the fire industry, particularly in the case of large-scale floods. In 2021, the fire industry suffered a significant loss as a result of the severe floods in July of this sad year. Reinsurers, for their part, need legal certainty and need to know the limits of the risk they reinsure, which is why they very rarely offer unlimited coverage. However, the removal of the insurer's individual intervention ceiling would de facto imply unlimited coverage. There is therefore a certain risk that many insurers no longer find reinsurers and ultimately leave the fire insurance market or require very high premiums to cover their risks. Indeed, their tariffs must be balanced under prudential rules in order to avoid a financial crisis. As indicated in the explanatory statement of the provision to which you referred, limiting the intervention of insurers also helps to keep insurance coverage within affordable price limits for consumers. I therefore do not think that the measure that you are advocating, namely the abolition of the ceiling, is in favour of consumer protection because it would make insurance prices unpayable for citizens. In the case of the surplus, I refer to the work done in this committee on your bill to repeal the insurer's natural disaster response ceiling. I will submit an explanatory note setting out my views on the matter, shortly after receiving the study from the National Bank of Belgium which I have requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u37	Minister, I told you that it was Assuralia who wrote the laws because, in the newspaper Imagine, Barbara Van Speybroeck indicated that this was a suggestion on their part. Moreover, there was already a suggestion by Assuralia when the ceiling on the payment of allowances was introduced by Charles Picqué, Socialist Minister of the Economy, in 2003; it can be read in the report of the discussions. That is why I allow myself to say that. It's not a free attack. These are proven facts. Moreover, we must always accept the blackmail of Assuralia, who, in order not to insure, always wishes to increase the premiums. In that case, let's cap the premiums! So people will find themselves there. Assuralia paid 650 million euros out of 2.57 billion. If it's up to the public, the taxpayers to pay those two billions, then let's cap the premiums for the insurers!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u38	Mr Freilich has been prevented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u39	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, an agreement on a temporary lifting of patents to combat the covid-19 pandemic would eventually have been reached between the main players - the United States, the European Union, India, South Africa - at the WTO, after more than 17 months of negotiations. That is to say, how arduous these have been. I welcome this agreement because, as you know, my group has been advocating this for months. The text which still needs to be approved by all Member States, with possible developments in the meantime, would indeed allow patents to be lifted on vaccines for up to five years in developing countries. Russia and China could not benefit from this derogation. Minister, how did Belgium position itself? Has it given the Commission a mandate to move forward in this direction? When could the final negotiation take place? What potential points of attention do you think you need to be vigilant about in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u40	Mr Lacroix, as you know, as you do, I am very close to this issue, particularly in the context of a regular dialogue between my cabinet and civil society, which has borne and echoed this very legitimate claim. The discussions have been under way for almost two years, as you have mentioned, in the World Trade Organization (WTO) and, like you, I am glad to see, or in any case to see, the release of this issue. This does provide opportunities to better combat the covid-19 pandemic and to ensure universal access to vaccines. The draft compromise that is on the table is, as you have pointed out, the result of a quadrilateral negotiation between the European Union, the United States, India and South Africa, the last two being the co-sponsors of the proposal on the suspension of patents. The draft compromise provides that developing countries will be able to benefit from an exception allowing them to allow a company to produce and export vaccines against covid-19 in a rapid and simplified manner, without the consent of patent holders. For my part, I have given clear instructions to my administration that Belgium should play a proactive role in promoting universal access to vaccines in the context of European discussions. As you know, and to remind the other members of the committee, it is the European Commission that speaks on behalf of the Member States within the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Fortunately, the European position has changed considerably during the negotiations. Belgium considered the draft compromise acceptable and supported the intention of the European Commission to give the green light to the draft compromise. All EU Member States have adopted the same approach. No date has yet been set for final negotiations with all WTO Member States. However, a discussion on this draft compromise could be on the agenda of the next WTO inter-ministerial conference on 13 June. For this to happen, the United States will have to approve this draft compromise internally. India and South Africa, for their part, indicated that they were awaiting the position of the United States, while noting that they would not oppose the proposed compromise. The point of attention on which we now seem to have to be vigilant concerns the application on the ground of what I hope will be decided within the WTO as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u41	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. You confirm your commitment to this issue again, and remember that there is indeed a compromise to be forged. It would, of course, be easier to say on parliamentary benches that patents should simply be lifted. We are all aware, and my group is in favour of it, that vaccines, and particularly the covid-19 vaccine, are a good of public health. However, it is true that we are confronted with a reality where not everyone thinks like us. We must try to move forward, although difficult, but I look forward to the WTO meeting on 13 June and to the position of the United States, which could make it possible to unblock the issue on a sustainable basis and ensure that developing countries benefit from the derogations you have mentioned. I would be glad to hear about the health of these populations, who are already very badly affected in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u42	Question No 55026399C by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u43	Minister, I was surprised to see that you had met – virtually, of course – the Saudi Minister of Economy at the beginning of April. I discovered it a little by chance on Twitter, but I didn't see you communicating about it: neither in the press, nor on your website, nor even on social networks. I am surprised that you have accepted such a meeting as the Saudi government humbly flouts human rights in this country and that Saudi Arabia is waging a cruel war in Yemen – the one we forget, by the way. It may be for this reason that you did not put this encounter so much forward. Minister, I also wonder what the purpose of this meeting was. What did you discuss: new trade or cooperation agreements? Can you enlighten us on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u44	Member, thank you for your question. On April 4, I met virtually and at his request the Saudi Minister of Economy and Planning. He wanted to speak with me about Riyadh's candidacy for the organization of the Universal Exhibition of 2030, for which Saudi Arabia, like four other candidate countries, is seeking the support of Belgium. This was a classic diplomatic process, on a case in which the government will not take a stand until 2023, the date of the host city's election for Expo 2030. So it did not call for advertising, in one sense or another. This is the case for a whole series of meetings I have with my foreign counterparts. I took the opportunity to ask my Saudi counterpart about his government's 2030 vision, the socio-economic reform programme put in place to get Saudi Arabia out of its historic oil rent. I also welcomed the important success of the AWEX mission to Saudi Arabia from 12 to 17 March, which involved more than 60 Walloon companies active in sectors such as health, environment, entertainment and transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic756x.u46	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Freilich's 55026280C and 55026506C are converted into written questions. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55026447C by Mrs Depraetere and 55026730C by Mrs Dierick are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Verhaert's 55026640C is converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55026735C by Mr Prévot and Mr 55026759C by Mrs Lanjri.
