ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, last week we went with the committee to visit the registration centre in Palace 8 on the Heysel. We have also received explanations from staff of the Foreign Affairs Office (DVZ) and Fedasil. We've been a week. Can you give us an update? How's the influx at the moment? We read in the press that there were fewer applications. Do those numbers make sense? What's the prognosis for the next few weeks? How many people have been registered in the meantime? Have all the people who were initially sent to the local authorities been able to sign up in the meantime? There was also talk of scaling up the registration centre to 66 counters. Has that been achieved in the meantime, or what are the plans in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, Europe has decided to grant Ukrainians the status of temporary protection so that they do not have to go through a lengthy asylum procedure. This is a welcoming, inclusive and logical choice, which we welcome. These people are on the run from falling bombs with all the destruction of them. Apparently, not all refugees are the same after all. Within Ukraine, refugees with a different colour or origin were the subject of discrimination. They were banned from the trains for the benefit of native Ukrainians. To reach the border posts they were intimidated by armed militias who claimed that Africans were not welcome in Poland. Crossing the border was not the end of that unequal treatment. On March 23rd, Der Spiegel and The Independent revealed a terrible reality. At the borders of Ukraine, especially in Poland, refugees with different origins or skin colors are in detention centres. That raises the question, Mr Secretary of State, whether this is also possible in Belgium? Unlike our neighbouring countries, people with short stays in Ukraine are not covered by this temporary protection. Given the current situation at the Klein Kastiltskin, it is therefore perfectly possible that they are trapped in a closed center. It is absurd that people with a residence status in Ukraine and a Ukrainian visa should not be granted in Belgium today. In the present times of unseen solidarity towards refugees, it is cynical to exclude a small minority of them. Why do you not want to include people with short-stay status in Ukraine in the status of temporary protection or, if necessary, in a variant of that status? You should then consider with them whether they can continue their activities in Ukraine or Belgium or whether they should return to their country of origin. Have you already contacted Poland, to ask for explanations about cases as described in Der Spiegel and in The Independent? What steps do you think should be taken at European level? Can you rule out the possibility that no refugee with a short residence status in Ukraine could be trapped in the Belgian closed centres? I also have a question about the status of people who take care of Ukrainians. With the hashtag 'place-free' you call on the solidarity of our people with the Ukrainian refugees. Quantitatively, this action proved to be a great success. Many people have offered themselves to their congregation and captured refugees. In the meantime, however, there is a fear among some of them. I spoke last week, for example, with an unemployed man who is receiving some Ukrainian refugees. Because the localization of Ukrainian refugees is mandatory, he fears that his residence status will change to cohabitant and that he will lose some of his much-needed unemployment benefit. This has potentially major consequences for people opening up their homes to refugees. In this way, solidarity could in fact be punished, which should be avoided very much. Have you discussed with your colleagues the issue of the status of citizens providing refugee reception? Will you ensure that this solidarity will not have bad financial consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u3	"Mr. Secretary of State, I am reminded of several reports concerning the organisation of the reception of Ukrainian refugees at the Gare du Midi, especially those who arrive after 5pm and who do not have the possibility to visit Heysel before night.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u4	Finally, how do you intend to remedy this situation in practice? Could camp beds be provided?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u5	Are Flanders and Wallonia willing, like Brussels, to trigger their phase of regional crisis in case of need in order to cope with the influx of refugees?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u6	"Mr. Secretary of State, the Temporary Protection Directive allows not only Member States to grant temporary protection to Ukrainian refugees who come to our country, but also to long-time residents in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u7	Can you also provide us with the number of beneficiaries of international protection in Ukraine, who have been able to obtain temporary protection in Belgium?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u8	"Mr. Secretary of State, this Monday, at an extraordinary meeting of Ministers of the Interior, it was decided that the European Union would:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u9	The European Commission has announced the release of EUR 17 billion to support countries hosting the largest number of refugees. How will these 17 billion be allocated? Will they only be on the basis of the index? When can these funds actually be disbursed?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u10	Secretary of State, we had the opportunity to visit the Heysel last week. We thank you and your services, especially the staff of Fedasil, and the international organizations on the spot because what we have seen is quite incredible and what has been done in a short time is worth mentioning. My first questions will be on the current situation. One of the discussions we had with the Director of the Office of Foreigners (OE) was the anticipation of the intensity of migration flows from Ukraine. It is quite complicated to predict the size of the number of Ukrainian refugees who will knock on our doors for a whole series of factors. Do you have the opportunity, particularly in contact with the countries bordering Ukraine, to anticipate this number? Will the projection of the number of seats available in relation to demand be reliable? The communes are sometimes a little blurred. The model relies heavily on these, which is a good thing because they are in direct contact with citizens. How are municipalities taken into account in terms of communication and coordination? The same applies to the role of governors, who sometimes take on their roles differently from province to province. As regards the role of federated entities, what about access to the labour market, training and education? It is very important to realize that some families will remain and that their children will need access to education. As far as hosting providers are concerned, what about protection, screening and possible financial support depending on their status – isolated or cohabiting? My second question is more complicated and concerns the application of the Temporary Protection Directive. The discussion focused on the question of who should be granted such protection. The European Commission has decided as it has recently issued guidelines calling on Member States to extend this temporary protection to non-Ukrainians, depending on their status. There is still some legal uncertainty as to the definition of this status between different countries. For example, I have met a Cameroonian professor who has been teaching at Kiev University for 21 years. His wife had to go to the Heysel while he had to go to the Petit-Château. At the time, it was the arrangement that had been made. What about the students? I read your publication on social media about the fate of the students. I don't agree with you. In my view, a person who has come to Europe to acquire knowledge should be able to continue his or her studies there. Is this a solution that must be only Belgian? I don't believe it. I wanted to ask you whether, possibly, you planned to address this issue at European level, for example by activating the Erasmus or Copernicus programmes, to find a European solution and allow these people to continue a course for a few months or years in Europe. I think it would also be a nice answer to Putin and his bombs to allow these students to continue their studies here in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am not going to dwell on my first question, which concerned Heysel. She had been dropped off before the visit. As my colleague, Mr Moutquin, said, this visit was particularly interesting. It highlighted the effectiveness and professionalism of the services present, but also of the NGOs, with a reception that was both effective, fast, well thought out and especially human. And this is important. That's something I didn't notice at Bordet. Of course, it was the beginning, it was the emergency. But here, in any case, from what I have seen, I think we are really in the right place. However, I will join Mrs Platteau on the development of the Heysel figures and the future prospects for this place. My second question concerned the reception of families. The biggest challenge of this unprecedented crisis is, of course, the reception. The figure we are still talking about today is 200,000 migrants – even if it seems to be decreasing for the time being. It will be necessary to find an unusual capacity for reception. Currently, if I understand correctly, 80 per cent of Ukrainian refugees are accommodated in families. This obviously raises the question of the sustainability of this system. Mr Secretary of State, how long can the reception last in these families, in these individuals? Are there any alternatives? What if it goes wrong on either side, whether it is on the side of host families or Ukrainian refugees? Who can they turn to if we need to find a solution, such as new accommodation? The other aspect, of course, is trafficking in human beings. Unfortunately, where there is suffering, there are also people who can take advantage of it and abuse it. Can you also tell us what you are doing to ensure police control over the families that are going to be taken in? Do you have any numbers at this level that can reassure us? The final question concerns the European Union, which has an information exchange platform that compiles the records of war refugees in Ukraine by the national authorities. Mr Secretary of State, I had a question in connection with this European position but also with the Belgian reality. Who in Belgium will have access to this European registration platform? Could this European platform manage the registration of nationalities other than Ukrainian refugees in the future? I saw, when we visited the Heysel, that a lot of things were very positive, but I was surprised to see that it was not yet possible for Fedasil to use Match-It for the registration of protection claimants while it is the tool used by Fedasil for several years. Why? Because there is not yet a synchronization with Evibel and this increases the administrative task on both sides: on the side of the Aliens Office as on the side of Fedasil. Will this be a reality in the near future, yes or no? Will it finally be possible to obtain access to the National Register for Fedasil? I also have a broader question, although I suspect you will not be able to answer everything. What other elements are contained in the plan presented by the European Commission to the Minister of the Interior? Perhaps you will tell me that you should ask your colleague Mrs Verlinden. Why is the idea of a quota for the distribution of refugees between countries of the European Union not on the agenda? This means that today the effort is uneven and that some are facing the situation more than others. How will the Commission allocate the EUR 17 billion made available to Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, several people are refused daily at the Heysel application centre because they have been in the Schengen area for a long time, because they have a residence card abroad and for reasons of public order and various other reasons. Nothing is being done against those involved. They're not getting any papers, and they're being sent home. Apparently, there's no follow-up and no order to leave the territory. In other words, we are de facto sending these people into illegality. Are you aware of these facts? How many people are we talking about? Will they be followed further?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u13	Mr Van Langenhove, you had tabled five questions, but we agreed to put them together in one question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u14	Mr President, I will try to shorten them. First of all, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say that it was a very interesting work visit to the Heysel, where we found that many improvements have already been made and that the staff of the various services are doing a great deal to ensure that everything is done as well as possible. My first question was about the operational guidelines for managing the external borders of the European Union with regard to Ukraine. I'll try to shorten the question. Is it true that the paragraph on the suspension of entry bans should be read in the sense that the suspension applies only to crossing the border between Ukraine and the European Union, or is it also extended and to other third countries? Is it possible to obtain the status of temporary protection if the applicant has an entry ban? If so, have such registrations already taken place in the past period? My second question was about the emergency villages. A third of the refugees from Ukraine who have arrived in Belgium are currently staying in Flanders. It has been agreed that we want to go to 60% in Flanders in the long term. 10% would be received in Brussels and 30% in Wallonia. In Antwerp, the works for container houses start soon for 600 people. In Mechelen such a residential village would also be set up. What about the construction of residential villages in Wallonia and Brussels? We have not yet received enough information on this. So I'd like to get an update on that. I also have a very important question about screening at the registration centre. To date, the numerator of the number of Ukrainian refugees is 27.000. So a lot of screenings have already been done. Of course, I was able to ask questions about the screening during our work visit. However, which databases are specifically matched by automatic screening, as we have heard? Not least, how many hits have there been in those databases? What are the consequences of these cases? Another important policy question is the following: is Ukrainian people who are due asked why they specifically choose to travel from Poland, Moldova, Hungary or other countries to Belgium? It seems politically useful to me to know what the reasons are. Is that tracked? If not, why not? I also have a question about human smugglers in the refugee crisis. A few days ago, German media reported that the security services assume that smugglers are using the current flow of refugees from Ukraine to increase their activities, which would be reflected, among other things, in the fact that nationals from other countries are currently also moving towards the West along the Eastern and Balkan routes. In an internal document of the German intelligence services, it is stated that both flows would be mixed at present. In concrete terms, they point out that smugglers use counterfeit Ukrainian student passports, mainly used by migrants from African and Asian countries who were already in Ukraine before the war. In addition, there are the professional smuggling networks operating in Turkey that specialise in the counterfeiting of Ukrainian identity papers, which would be reflected, among other things, in the fact that checks carried out by Turkish police have repeatedly found that Syrians and Afghans in Turkey, for example, already had Ukrainian documents, so to speak, which they may later abuse in order to enter the EU illegally and cheat on our services. Is that information known to you? Have such frauds been detected in their own countries in recent weeks? Has the issue been discussed at European level? What additional measures were taken at European level to stop such practices? What additional measures will you take, together with your competent colleagues in the government, to combat this particular form of fraud? I also have a question about the extraordinary European Council of Ministers which recently took place on the reception of refugees from Ukraine. The aim was to discuss, inter alia, material and financial support to the Member States and the protection and readmission of refugees from Moldova. Can you explain the discussion and any decisions that have been taken on these three issues? What additional decisions were taken on the repatriation of third-country nationals fleeing Ukraine? That's not unimportant either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u15	I think that all the groups present have been given the floor. Mr Secretary of State, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Russian aggression in Ukraine has been going on for just over a month. Meanwhile, more than 4 million people have already left Ukraine. The number of displaced individuals, people who are still staying in Ukraine but who have had to leave their homes, is even greater than 4 million. If I am not mistaken, the European Commission has estimated their number this week at 6 to 7 million people. As you know, the Foreign Office started registering Ukrainians on the day of activation of the actual protection status. In this respect, our services have done an extremely strong job. When I look at the data provided by neighbouring countries, among others the Netherlands, Germany, France and Sweden, I see that registration is very difficult everywhere, except in Belgium at the moment. That is precisely because we have a large registration center, with a very large capacity to register people, and because the people of the Foreign Office, Fedasil and The Red Cross from morning until late at night are doing a lot of work, seven days out of seven. I am very grateful to them for that. It's a good thing this is happening today. I remember that a few days ago, or even a few weeks ago, the reactions were sometimes a little negative with regard to registration in Belgium. It was problematic throughout Europe. Today, we are an exemplary country with regard to registration. I am glad to see that all those who had comments on this matter are now the first to congratulate not only the government but also the employees of our services for doing a great job. I also want to thank them. We first went to Jules Bordet in the former hospital, where a registration centre has to be manufactured very quickly. Then we went to the Heysel. The opening of Bordet also allowed the Klein Kastiltje to fully focus on applicants for international protection. That's what happened right away. Indeed, the registrations in Bordet could not yet be fully completed. That means some people have been through a light registration in Bordet. For some, that is complete. Thanks to the agreement system, everyone can be helped in the very short term. They asked how many people are still at the door every day or are not registered. I suspect those questions are dated in a distant past. Everyone who is due in Palace 8 is registered, not just today, yesterday and the day before yesterday, but for a very long time. Mrs Daems, you specifically refer to March 17th. At 1.30 p.m., all persons who could be registered that day were also allowed in. It's not because the doors closed, that the registrations stopped. On 17 March, 1,931 people were registered and the employees also worked late in the evening. People were quickly brought in so that there were no images of people waiting outside on the street. Unfortunately, the fact that there is some misinformation about the doors closed or not is a pity, especially since the people of Fedasil, the Foreign Office and the Red Cross didn't take their sandwich box and left that night, but worked until midnight to register everyone. So it's not because doors seem physically closed that they are in reality. Some of them thought so, and they let me know. Since March 22, everyone can make an appointment online to come to the Heysel at a certain hour. Anyone who offers on the Heysel is also allowed in on the grounds. The maximum registration capacity currently amounts to 3,000 registrations per day. There are 60 counters and 12 back office counters. In total, therefore, one can go up to 72. Over the past period, the agency made available between 120 and 140 full-time equivalents for the assignment at the Heysel. So that's 5% of the Agency's entire workforce. This has an effective impact on our services, but they do everything they can to help everyone. However, we should not register 3,000 people a day, because there are no 3,000 people. The last figures count about 1,000 people per day. So there's still some rack on that. So the registration center certainly does more than what is needed. On yesterday's date, 24 475 certificates were delivered. The number of registrations is higher, as there is an additional interview in Pacheco for some people on the basis of their file, which means that they cannot yet receive a temporary protection certificate. People who could not yet be assigned to a shelter in the municipalities are taken in the federal emergency shelter. The cascade structure is known to you: normally the registration takes place first in Brussels and then the dispatching to the municipalities, but if the latter cannot immediately, we will call in the federal emergency shelters, thanks to the good cooperation with Brussels City. The demand for decentralised registration is not currently on the agenda. Registration on the Heysel is very good and efficient, the capacity is sufficient and the staff is well trained. Decentralising is accompanied by strong challenges, particularly in the areas of logistics, infrastructure and certainly staff. At least in the beginning it also leads to a decrease in the number of registrations. What is also important is that we carry out a thorough identity and security check on the people, which cannot be copied to the individual municipalities. We would rather do this centrally and thoroughly than in any municipality in a kind of light version, where we are not sure about the implementation of these controls and do not know whether the temporary protection is applied in accordance with our federal vision. As regards the detection of problematic situations such as exploitation, many Fedasil and DVZ personnel who come into contact with refugees have the training and experience to identify and identify such situations. There is increased vigilance when someone indicates that they already have a reception area, especially for vulnerable profiles. In this case, the employees of the DVZ urge those involved to register with Fedasil for a place. Also people who say they do not need a shelter, because they say they can go somewhere, receive a brochure and a telephone number so that they can call someone if they are not satisfied with their care afterwards. For example, people can be offered shelter by someone who is at a station in Merchtem, or via Facebook groups who want to coordinate all of this themselves, something we strongly advise against. It is important to inform people properly. As was pointed out by Mr Moutquin and Mr Moutquin. From Smet, this crisis affects different policy areas and skill levels. It is therefore essential that there is good communication and cooperation between the various actors. This cooperation now exists between the different levels, local authorities, governors, federated entities and the federal government. Everyone stays in close contact. It is important to remain so because local authorities are asking many questions about housing, registration, a whole series of things that are sometimes perceived as details but are important to them. It is essential to respond properly. Hence the importance of good coordination between all levels. We have an institutional lasagna, but we must ensure that it works in times of crisis. However, it is not necessary to declare a federal phase to ensure such cooperation and the rationalization of information. Since the first day of this crisis, all partners have worked very well together and the expertise of the National Crisis Centre has been used at best to find solutions. This was also agreed upon in consultation with the various Ministers-Presidents. If the situation deteriorates further, I think it is always possible to envisage the establishment of a federal phase. For the small story, at the very beginning of the crisis, I had heard some politicians at the level of the Regions say that this was becoming complicated, that the federal government should not be devoid of responsibility. I was the first to say that if they wanted to start the federal phase, I would. It was the Regions who initially replied that they had their skills and that they were doing what was necessary. Mr Rigot, in plenary a week or two ago, you told me to take over and act. If you read Het Standaard, you know that a few weeks ago, I said that if there was a need for it, I would. Fortunately, we do not live in a world like that of Mr Putin. So it's not up to me alone to decide to start the federal phase. The Regions have powers and if they specify that they want to take on their responsibilities, I must respect the institutional system in which we operate. I ask that this be understood without telling me that I have to take on my responsibilities, which I try, in any case, to take with respect for my skills. Many refugees from Ukraine indeed arrive in Brussels-South. There, in collaboration with La Croix Rouge, Brussels Help has also been provided with the citizens' platform and with the support of SNCB to provide and guide people with information. The police are involved, too. The point is open from 8:00 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. You also ask me questions about another local and the possibility of providing food. I must, of course, refer you to the senior official of Brussels who is responsible for this. According to my information, the city of Liège, in cooperation with SNCB, also organized an information point at the station of Liège. It is also up to others to clarify this. Right now, I don't know about info points in other stations. If there is such a need, it will also be discussed at the meeting with the National Crisis Centre. The information provided by SNCB shows that most people arrive in Brussels-South. It is clear that many people who arrive at the station need a welcome. Fedasil is working with Rode Kruis to facilitate these people's access to the Federal Emergency Reception at the Ariane Reception Centre. This established centre provides a fairly large number of places. There are contacts with Samusocial on this subject. Persons who have not yet been able to register for temporary protection are also part of the target group that can be welcomed by Rode Kruis. Questions were asked about the scope of temporary protection. In the Council decision, it was clear that in all cases Ukrainians and their nuclear families were included, as well as persons under international or national protection. The nuclear family itself must not necessarily have Ukrainian nationality in order to be protected, or have a specific status in Ukraine in order to be granted temporary protection. Specifically, we are not separating couples in the case of a Ukrainian person with Ukrainian nationality, who lives in Ukraine and is married to a non-Ukrainian. I'm a man of my time. On the social media, I had read that someone from the PVDA in Brussels asked questions about what to do with recognised refugees. They are also subject to temporary protection. A person who was a recognised refugee in Ukraine is subject to temporary protection. Since this question was raised by one of our colleagues in Brussels, I would like to add that clarification. In total, only two persons are protected in Ukraine and three stateless persons have already obtained temporary status in Belgium. We also received directives from the Commission last week following which we decided that permanent nationals of third countries who cannot return to their country of origin in a sustainable and safe manner are also entitled to this status. Such persons should be registered and screening carried out in order to ascertain not only whether they have permanent status in the country of origin but also whether there is no possibility of a sustainable and safe return to the country of origin. The information is available on the Info-Ukraine website on the website of the Office for Foreigners. There is a Ukrainian identity document that clearly shows that he is a permanent resident of Ukraine. For this target group, a first registration takes place at Heysel. An interview will then be held on site. However, a number of them will again be invited to Pacheco for a more in-depth interview. Each application shall be subject to an individual examination to establish that all the conditions are met. If this is the case, a certificate shall be issued. If this is not the case, as soon as possible after submission to Heysel, a decision to refuse a reasoned decision in law and in fact shall be taken. This decision is subject to a non- suspensive appeal to the Conseil du Litigation. At present, some 15 third-country nationals with permanent residence have already received a certificate because they could not return safely to their country. It is true that people who did not have a permanent stay in Ukraine and those who had a permanent stay in Ukraine but who can safely return to their country are not eligible. If you ask me, that's logic itself. Anyone who comes from Ukraine, has Ukrainian nationality and runs from the bombs like everyone else, cannot return to Ukraine because this country is now unsafe and bombs are falling. The American student who studied in Ukraine and fleeing from Ukraine to Poland, Slovakia, Belgium, the Netherlands, must be helped so that he can safely return to his country of origin. We need to help that student or that migrant, or anyone else, to do that. It is said that this is unfair: a Ukrainian may stay here, but a foreign student from America, Congo or China cannot stay here. That is because the Ukrainian cannot return to his country because it is not safe, but the Chinese, Congolese, American or Australian student can return to his country in a safe way. If that is not the case, any person is free to let you know. Anyone can, of course, always apply for asylum. That's the logic there is. That is why I think it is important to emphasise this. I watched a report on RTBF – a medium that I very much appreciate – in which students were shown, but in this case only Congolese students. It said these students couldn't stay here. But this is not only the case of Congolese! Whether you're American, Chinese or Australian, the philosophy is pretty clear. You have to be careful about the messages you send. Focusing on a nationality gives the impression that a distinction is made between Congolese and other nationalities, which is not the case. We distinguish between those who cannot return because there is a problem at home and those who can return. Please, pay attention to the messages you send! We can have a different opinion on who has the right to stay here and who can't. But let us specify who must return and why! Mr Van Langenhove, at the last committee meeting, I also said that there were security screenings. Their registration shall check and record the identity data. The Foreign Affairs Office therefore transmits the information to the competent security services, namely the State Security, the ADIV and the Federal Police. The DVZ also carries out a check of the SIS database, the Schengen Information System database. If the person requesting temporary protection is already known at the DVZ, a check will also be carried out in the ANG. I can also assure you that Belgium still controls SIS alerts at its external borders. The registrations raise the question whether they themselves have a place of residence or wish to appeal to the reception offered. The reason why these people come to Belgium is therefore not decisive to decide whether or not they will receive protection. Anyone who is present here and falls within the scope of the Council Decision will be protected. There were also questions about hits and numbers. I cannot answer these here because these numerical questions have to go through the services that carry out the checks at the time and in the following days. I therefore invite you to ask questions in writing. Both the Temporary Protection Directive and the Aliens Act allow a person to be excluded from temporary protection. The grounds for this are the same as in Article 1F of the Refugee Convention. In addition, a person may be excluded if there are reasonable grounds to believe that he/she constitutes a danger to national security or constitutes a threat to public order as he/she was definitively convicted of a particularly serious crime. The charges must therefore be sufficiently serious to refuse temporary protection. However, if the facts are serious enough, it seems logical to me that the person in question should be refused temporary protection. This is not the case for each entry ban or for each SIS alert. It is not because someone is in the SIS database and has entered the Schengen area in a certain way that he/she will not receive temporary protection. In February 144 persons of Ukrainian nationality applied for international protection. In March there were already over 400. Since 7 March, the number of asylum applications has obviously fallen sharply to a number of individuals per day because there is a possibility to apply for temporary protection. The status of temporary protection also suspends the asylum procedure. It is therefore not very useful to hope that, if you are eligible for temporary protection, you will quickly receive an answer through an asylum procedure. Between 1 February and 14 March 189 people were assigned a reception place in the Fedasil reception network. They will also drain from the Fedasil reception network once they have obtained their temporary protection status. Yes, so there were asylum seekers from Ukraine in our reception network. Since their application for asylum is suspended and they apply for temporary protection, they also flow from the reception network. Both at the registration centre and at the Heizel, families are mostly registered. Slightly more than half of the people are of age. 40% are children, 30% are children under 12, by the way. They are almost exclusively family children. There are sometimes a lot of numbers circulating about unaccompanied minors. It is important to really pay attention to this vulnerable target group. We should not forget that unaccompanied minor also means a Ukrainian aunt who comes along with cousin or cousin. Cousin or cousin is therefore considered an unaccompanied minor. There, too, there is a distinction between an unaccompanied minor who would come all alone or who deserves to be here with family or acquaintances. That is so in the vast majority of cases. The hashtag SquareFree campaign has created a great wave of solidarity throughout society.. Facebook groups have emerged and we've been trying to streamline that. Also interesting to give: I didn't invent the hot water in that area. I know that some parties would wish that I could, but unfortunately that is not yet the case. In the Netherlands, France, Germany, there are tens of thousands of people in Germany more than tens of thousands, in the Netherlands there were more than 30 000, Germany is about much more, because a larger country is host families who register to receive people. We do the same in Belgium, as in other European countries. This should not be streamlined via Facebook groups or through cardboard signs with the message "Hey, come to me, I'm an interesting host family" but through the government that should also keep control.. Family care is not a structural solution, but a buffer solution pending placement. There was a question from Mr Van Langenhove about the places in Wallonia and Brussels, the emergency villages. I hope we have it everywhere. I've heard a lot of communication about emergency villages, about 20 emergency villages and then 2 emergency villages in Flanders. I have also heard a lot about the structural housing that would come, but we need them quickly. We don't have them today. The fact that it is being built is good and reassures me a bit. Meanwhile, there are thousands of Ukrainians who are now in need of shelter and who can happily reach host families in Belgium and in other European countries. We need structural, collective housing as soon as possible. Above all, we must not point at each other. Belgium is an institutionally complex country, but the division of competences in this area is quite clear: the Regions are responsible for housing. Fortunately, they do the necessary work to create shelters. However, it will have to happen quickly, because we will soon need them. Taking people into host families is very nice, but that is anything but a structural solution. For the time being, Fedasil has enough places to assign people, but often that is for individuals; so we should not rest on our laurels. We have to make sure there are places to go. Agreements have been reached on the distribution with the Prime Ministers, the Prime Minister and Minister Verlinden. With regard to emergency care, it is important to share expertise, including among the Regions. Fedasil distributes a brochure to support the creation of collective infrastructure. It might be useful to look at the procedure followed from registration to reception. The registration takes place in Palace 8 on the Heysel. If there is a need for shelter, Fedasil will find an available place in the housing tool. A housing tool was created with all available places, thanks to the National Crisis Centre that made a quick effort. This tool is also used by the Regions and contains all available places. As soon as the Ukrainians arrive, they are accompanied by local authorities to a temporary residence. If problems arise, you should contact the local coordinator who will continue to seek solutions within your own municipality. The screening of host families is also carried out at local level. Minister Verlinden has given a number of instructions to ensure that screening is carried out properly. The screening is a first step to protect the vulnerable target group of Ukrainian refugees. There is also a task force headed by Minister Van Quickenborne, responsible for initiatives on the protection of refugees against trafficking in human beings. The main aim is to exclude human trafficking as much as possible. From that task force, all useful information will flow to the entire chain, from a Ukrainian to a host family and all relevant authorities. Finally, Mrs Daems, you are right to suggest that solidarity should not have a negative impact on host families in terms of taxation or social benefits. This has been a concern from the outset and we have tried to clarify it with the various competent colleagues. Several circulars and instructions have been drawn up to ensure that the reception of Ukrainian refugees does not lead to negative effects. As regards questions on the discussions at European level, on 28 March there was a JHA Council with a broad exchange of views. The Commission has presented a ten-point plan to structure and address a large number of challenges. The plan is fully online on the Commission's website. For those who have questions about the elements of the plan, you can consult them on the Commission's website. An important item on the agenda was the operationalisation of material and financial support to the European Member States. Material support is provided by EU agencies. The Commission has explained more about the financial support available and important. Countries like Poland capture 2 million people. It is important that we support countries such as Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic financially so that they can continue to do so. Without financial support, it will be impossible for them to continue to develop their solidarity sustainably. Financial support is therefore important and Belgium has insisted that it should be sufficient. The Commission has presented a number of initiatives to strengthen the European Union's financial support to the Member States. The main aim is to redefine and make flexible use of existing funds, such as the CARE initiative, REACT-EU funds, the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, otherwise known as AMIF. The importance of correct registration was stressed once again at the Council meeting. This was important for the Belgian State. It is part of the Commission's action plan to propose a registration platform at European level. In practical terms, this means ensuring that in each country registration is done in the same way, that security checks are carried out, that it is known who is registered and where exactly, in which European country, to get a global overview. The Council meeting also addressed the issue of solidarity in the European Union, for example with Moldova. There are several reasons why the compulsory relocation of Ukrainians is not on the European agenda. The main reason is that the most affected Member States are not asking for it at this time. There is no consequence or commitment related to the proposed index. Moldova is facing a very significant migratory pressure. The European Union has therefore deployed mainly humanitarian resources. Frontex also provides operational support. For Belgium, a transfer of Ukrainian refugees could be possible if, and only if, there is sufficient reception capacity. Hence, the importance at regional level of ensuring that these structural housing units are created as quickly as possible. If we really want to be in solidarity, as Belgium, with these countries such as Moldova, then we have to make sure that we create, at regional level, the necessary housing, because there is no point in bringing people in and then saying, "In fact, we have no room". Belgium has already made a number of commitments with regard to repatriations. These are people who are seriously ill and will be cared for through the European co-vacation system in Belgium. Furthermore, our services are also working on the evacuation and temporary housing of 60 orphans. I am grateful to the Flemish Government and Minister Beke for their cooperation in housing 60 orphans in Flanders. So our action focuses on the most vulnerable. Everyone in Ukraine is vulnerable, but our focus should be on those who cannot leave there and not the least orphans in shelters. Then I come to the issue of trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings and fraud. This type of fraud has not yet been reported in Belgium, but since persons with a temporary right of residence do not qualify for a temporary protection status, it does not matter whether they have a false student card or not. Of course, fraud is taken into account when assessing asylum applications, fortunately. Our services are trained to assess the authenticity of documents and receive assistance from the police forces, which you may have also seen at the registration centre in Palace 8, to verify the authenticity of the documents. There's been increased vigilance. As temporary protection status entails a great deal of rights, we must be sure that it is done properly. They also asked how many people had already been refused. Of course, people are also refused without this being kept up to date. It may be that someone who comes from another country is trying to get temporary protection here as well. There are often people who are told at the door that they should not be there and that they always have the right to apply for asylum. It was stated that they were not ordered to leave the territory. These people, of course, have the right to apply for asylum. Mr Segers, you asked for a report from the Foreign Office. It is now online and updated regularly. I certainly invite you to view the website of the DVZ. The DVZ is constantly updating the numbers and is working hard on them. Digitisation was one of the important yards, but our services are working on it tremendously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed answer. However, you have not answered my question as to whether you can guarantee that no refugee with a short residence status in Ukraine can be detained in the Belgian closed centres. The fact that you did not answer that question makes me fear the worst, namely that the locking up of short stays, as happens in Poland, can also become a reality in Belgium. I would have liked another answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Daems, it is difficult to answer that question. If a person temporarily resident in Belgium moves to the registration centre in Brussels and is told that he or she is not eligible for temporary protection status, he or she is free to apply for asylum if he or she indicates that he or she cannot return to his or her country. That person is illegally resident in Belgium, although he or she had a temporary stay in Ukraine. However, he or she is staying illegally in Belgium. If a person is staying illegally in Belgium and does not wish to participate in the return, it cannot be excluded that the person concerned is temporarily detained in a closed centre in the context of the return pending the return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, my question was rather about the situation in advance, especially when they do not enter the Klein Kastiltje and are not registered. In that case, they have no proof either. In the meantime, you have clarified that. With regard to the foreign student refugees from Ukraine, you always give the example of the American student in Ukraine who can simply return to his country. I can follow that example, but that is a hypothetical argument, independent of the reality of foreign students in Ukraine. For many of them, it is not just an opportunity to study in Ukraine or Europe. Education in their own country is generally not sufficient at all. You can't just compare America and Africa. Their future depends to a large extent on those studies abroad. They risk losing the time and money they put into the studies. Why don't you find a solution with them that doesn't hypothesize their future? Can we not cooperate with Erasmus, for example, as Mr Moutquin pointed out in his question? You can ensure that all people with a residence status in Ukraine in Belgium can be treated with dignity. Our neighbors are doing it. Spain, for example, does it. It has extended the temporary protection status to short stays. They show it's possible. So I wonder what you're waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u20	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers, which are, as often, quite complete. On coordination, everyone stays in close contact, you tell us. I believe that this crisis, such as that of the pandemic or of the floods, calls for our federal system to take control from the outset. On the question of temporary protection and the question of nationals who have acquired a permanent residence permit, you have been quite complete and I thank you for that. If I have followed you well, there are those who cannot go home safely and sustainably and who should be able to stay. I call on our government and our administration to take these criteria seriously. Recently, a previous government found it normal to return Sudanese to the Sudan despite the risks that these safe and sustainable criteria would not be met. As far as the students are concerned, I do not entirely agree with you. You always take the example of the American or Australian student who can return to his country safely and who would be in a situation comparable to a Congolese or Ivorian student. Except that these Congolese students - admit it - may not have the same opportunities to pursue studies of the same quality, of the same level and according to their own aspirations in their country of origin or in Europe. I therefore think that in assessing the fate of these students, we cannot only take into account the question of their physical protection, but also the question of whether or not to see the destruction of a project of studies and therefore of life. And here I'm sorry, but the Americans and the Congolese are not even.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u21	I've often heard you say that we have called you by criticizing the fact that things are not put in place etc. It is true that our role is easy. [[With us, it's the "it's all"!]] There is always a gap between the problems that are being pointed out and the possibilities to be put in place. Unfortunately, it is our job to anticipate things that you may already know and that your services must put in place. I realize this by listening to you. Our role is probably easier than yours. Having said that, for me the question of the communes remains rather vague. The communes are quite distraught. This is normal given the institutional lasagna, the crisis situation, etc. Information and coordination can be improved. It is sometimes seen that this depends enough on the governor's involvement and this raises questions in this issue of institutional lasagna: the role of governor may differ from province to province. There are things that will happen and we will gradually find solutions. There are also complicated cultural habits that foster families are beginning to understand and for which they could receive information from their commune which requires leaflets in Ukrainian, etc. As far as temporary protection is concerned, we will not agree on reading. But it doesn't matter, we must not agree all the time. I don't understand your example. I take the example of my Cameroonian mathematics teacher. If I listen to you, he's been 21 years in Ukraine, 21 years math teacher, he's running away from Putin's bombs, the same bombs as everyone else. But since there is no risk to his person in Cameroon, he should separate himself from his wife, who can stay here in Belgium, and he should return to Cameroon. I think there's really a problem here, unless I don't understand...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u22	If it's his wife, the Cameroonian can stay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u23	As far as the students are concerned, I can only agree with the remarks made by my opposition colleagues. I don't think that's normal. You can't say that. You point out the RTBF which, indeed, is a very good medium, as you said. She's talking about Congolese students and you're talking about American students. Let's try to be objective. There are people who have chosen the great Europe to seek knowledge. These people cannot be asked to ignore the choice they have made and tell them that they have not chosen the right country, and that therefore, they have to go home to do their studies. I would like my Government to take an initiative, send a letter to the European Commission to organise a meeting around the Erasmus and Copernicus programmes so that there is a solution. The situation is complicated but no doubt that, in a European distribution plan, the various students who were studying in Ukraine and who have suffered, I repeat, the same bombs as the Ukrainians, could remain on our continent. That is our difference with Putin. That is what we must support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I have heard your reply on the European registration. Maybe I listened wrong, I admit, but I didn't hear the part related to Evibel and Match-It at Fedasil, and the link between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u25	I've clarified things about the housing tool that we're using right now. We have an online tool, which has been developed by the National Crisis Centre, which allows us to have, in this housing tool, all the places that have been made available for Ukrainians. This tool was given to the Regions for use, and to all municipalities. Today, the municipality can use, interactively, the places present in the housing tool to be able to say concretely: "At home in Vilvorde, today, we have 40 places". A place is taken by an Ukrainian? The municipality can then itself disable the place to specify that it is already used. So we created a special tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u26	On this point, I understand very well that this is a special tool, but I insist that future synchronization between Evibel and Match-It be ensured because it will facilitate the task in the other important part of Fedasil's mission, which is the registration of applicants for international protection. In a broader way, you mentioned from the outset my speech in plenary two weeks ago. I'm consistent with what I told you. Indeed, you know the truth, it was not Wallonia that refused you to take over, but Flanders. So you can't tell me that I'm not consistent, because I'm Wallon, I'm taking the position of the PS and it consisted of inviting you to take the orders – a mail was sent to you by the Walloon Region –. From there, to you...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u27	Two weeks! Two weeks before the plenary session, you ask the question, in the Standaard...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u28	Excuse me for not reading the Standaard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u29	No, but I'm telling you, I told you right now, I'm saying if I have to, I'm ready to activate...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u30	Well, that's perfect, that's what they say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u31	And that has not been done. So that's where I say that when I'm pointed at because they say, "you have to take the reins in your hand"...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u32	That's not right, I can't agree with you, I didn't point at you. It was Flanders that said that it did not ask you to take the federal emergency plan and Wallonia told you that it did. So I point out to you quite rightly, saying: "We Walloons, we felt we had to do it". Don't tell me I'm incoherent or we have two facets. We only have one because we have only said one thing from the beginning. It is true that the status is different, it must be recognized, but it is migrants – people who leave their country –. Who therefore has the best expertise to take charge of the accompaniment and reception? It's the federal, it's Fedasil, with their expertise in the field that goes back more than twenty years. Therefore, who has to take the orders, it's you. I therefore welcome the fact that you are telling us that you are proposing to take the lead, but therefore, take them in order not to leave the municipalities, the citizens and the regions in the front line. Moreover, if now the Flemish government is headed by a party that previously had a secretary of state who occupied your place and who seems to be more open than in the past to a certain type of migrants, I am delighted that this is a remarkable leap forward. Let them therefore persist in this direction. However, in the same vein, where we agree that we must reach out to others, we have another approach to how we do it. So I repeat, you have to take the orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, there are indeed compliments for the hard work of the services, but that does not relieve you of the responsibility for the late start of the preparation and extension of registrations, as well as of the responsibility for the fact that at the time when war breaks out in Europe, our 30,000 shelters are full of non-Europeans, a relatively large part of whom do not seem to have a right to asylum. You say that if you come from a safe country, you cannot stay here, quoting the example of American, Congolese or Australian students. But then the question arises as to what percentage of those people actually return. The handful of American students who were probably in Ukraine will return. However, I can imagine that Tunisian, Moroccan or Congolese students, whether or not with real papers - because a large part of them have bought papers from smugglers - will not be so happy to return to their country of origin. We may have to ask written questions about the percentage of the effective return of those people. As for the question of whether there have been hits, please tell me to ask in writing. It does not seem unreasonable to me to expect you to be able to say whether there have been hits here in committee, even without giving precise figures. It would be interesting if you could confirm that there have been hits and tell us what consequences you have. As far as the SIS hits are concerned, you do mention that they do not necessarily ensure that someone does not enter Belgium or the EU, but we have not received an answer on the other possible hits. You also say that it is irrelevant why they come to Belgium precisely, because everyone has the right to protection. I see that slightly differently. Politically, it seems to me very interesting to know whether Ukrainian refugees, who obviously all have the right to protection, come here because the situation in Poland or Hungary had become unsustainable for them, or because they have heard that a living wage and free housing are offered here, or because they already have connections or family here, or have seen something on social media. Freddy Roosemont also agreed that this would be interesting. So it seems to me that we need to think about this with an open mind. With regard to the emergency villages, for the record, it was certainly not my intention to point the finger. It was my intention, however, in line with the core tasks of this committee, to find out what the state of play is with regard to the emergency villages. We have already received some crumbs of information about Flanders, but I am still waiting for information from Brussels and Wallonia. Apparently, you are also waiting for that. It may be interesting if we also hear from these levels of policy in the short term. Indeed, there is a hurry. Finally, on the basis of what I hear here from some colleagues, members of government parties with whom you should discuss government policy in the Council of Ministers, a third category of people who are automatically granted the right of residence and protection in Belgium should be added to the category of Ukrainians and the category of recognised refugees. That category apparently consists of people who are ambitious and have a good degree, preferably from a recognised university. Of course, international law does not work in this way, nor does our right of asylum. I like that these people are ambitious, but we cannot just give everyone with ambitions and the will to get a nice diploma here right of residence or asylum. That's not fair. Moreover, it is not fair to distinguish between a student from a country with good universities, for example America, and a student from Congo, for example. The Congolese student may stay according to this explanation and the American student may not, based on the reputation of the universities of their country of origin. That seems absurd to me. I suggest you keep your head cool and think rationally instead of emotionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for answering my questions while I was not there. I will therefore not respond to everything you have said. Would it be possible to include the questions in the report as it was submitted? That's gonna be hard, apparently. Too bad. We visited the Heysel with the committee. Greetings for that, everything works well and is about to. There is a similar evolution at Brussels-South. I have been there several times, at the place where the Ukrainian refugees arrive. Red Cross volunteers stand there with railway police and Securail and guide the people to the info point. From there they are escorted to public transport and then to the registration centre. That was a nice progress in the past week. Again wonderful work, in that respect. I raised another matter with Minister Gilkinet this morning. I don't know if you've mentioned it. The space for Ukrainians in the station is far too small. I understand that people want to work on a move. This is also really necessary in order to offer stability to the Ukrainians. They arrive there with little children, there must be play, registered and in terms of toilets it is not there to do. There are also thefts. The luggage is left behind for a while and several thefts have already taken place. That's pretty horrible. There are two points I would like to make very quickly. There are also arrivals at Charleroi Airport. If one arrives after ten o'clock, it seems that it is said that one should take the FlixBus to Brussels-South. Then we arrive when the post of the Red Cross is already closed and no one is ready to help. Something must be done about that. A similar problem arises in Brussels-North, where FlixBussen is also arriving. There should still be good guidance there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u35	That concludes the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, I would just like to remind a colleague that in democracy there is what is called the "separation of powers" and, as a parliamentarian, although I am of your majority, it is also my job to ask you questions. I wanted to address an important issue. On 6 February, the International Day against Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) was held. As a reminder, FGM covers all interventions involving alteration or damage to women's genitals for non-medical reasons. In the world, 200 million women are subjected to these interventions, these attacks. In Belgium, this figure is close to 26,000 women. In 2021, the government committed to release a €160,000 envelope, particularly for GAMS, to train Fedasil workers on this issue. It seems that this envelope has not yet been unlocked. Is this one still up to date? Has an agreement been signed between Fedasil and GAMS? How could organizations as important as GAMS be guaranteed structural funding, not an annual envelope?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u37	Secretary of State, on 6 February, on the occasion of the International Day to Combat Female Genital Mutilation, I also wanted to ask you about this, as I did last year. Unfortunately, in Belgium, girls are sometimes already excised because they come from countries where female genital mutilation is practised. According to GAMS, Group for the Abolition of Sexual Mutilations, some girls arrive as part of a family reunion from a country where genital mutilation is practised and unfortunately was excreted shortly before their departure. Other little girls arrive and are fortunately still "intact" – this is the term that is used. It is therefore essential to protect them from the risk of future excision during, for example, a temporary return to the country during the summer holidays. It is also important for girls who have unfortunately undergone recent genital mutilation before their arrival in Belgium – or even in Belgium – to be able to diagnose this mutilation in order to provide the best possible support at both the medical and psychological levels. When a child arrives in Belgium as part of family reunification, is a medical examination carried out under the auspices of the Office for Foreigners and other bodies? If so, where does this medical examination take place and how is it organised? What diseases are being sought? Does this medical check include, for children from a country where female genital mutilation is practised, a check of the child's non-excision or excision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u38	Female genital mutilation is a global health problem and a serious violation of the physical integrity of women and girls. Every year, 3 million young girls are threatened by these practices. Today, 200 million young women have been the victims of these mutilations. This figure could even be revised upwards as many of the countries concerned do not or do not have such data. This practice is more common in West, East and North-East Africa, in some Asian countries and in the Middle East, as well as among migrants from these regions, hence the global dimension of the problem. It is essential to take this problem into account as soon as migrants arrive in our country, especially when it comes to families from countries that practice female genital mutilation. Thus, could you provide figures, ideally disaggregated by age, on the number of asylum applications based on the risk of female genital mutilation in the country of origin? What proportion of these requests received a favourable response? How is the follow-up implemented by CGRA following the granting of refugee status on the basis of a risk of female genital mutilation carried out in practice? Is the annual medical certificate provided by the parents to the CGRA sufficient evidence of the absence of mutilation? Did this follow-up highlight cases of genital mutilation carried out in our country or in the country of origin after the granting of refugee status? In the affirmative, how many cases are involved? Do you know if there are girls or women in danger of being subjected to genital mutilation among illegal residents?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against genital mutilation is extremely important. With the cooperation of the Ministers of Justice and Public Health, it must be pursued. In addition, strong support for victims is of particular interest to me. That is why I asked Fedasil to strengthen its cooperation with the organization GAMS (Group for the Abolition of Sexual Mutilation). Similarly, we strive to facilitate respect for the family life of children who have been recognized as refugees as a result of genital mutilation. The additional budgetary resources for asylum and migration at my disposal give me the opportunity to focus more on this subject, and I welcome it. I have therefore decided to structurally finance certain projects, one of which relates to the issue of genital mutilation. In this sense, I asked Fedasil to work more structurally on this topic in collaboration with GAMS. In the past, temporary agreements had been concluded through project financing. Therefore, structural financing is a novelty for Fedasil and requires the development of new management tools, with conventional and financial implications. Fedasil is working on this project. The choice of structural cooperation provides the partner organization with an anchor and a framework within which a long-term vision and action plan can be developed. It also provides a better opportunity for a stable staff policy and retention of knowledge and skills. Mrs Gilson, with regard to your questions about a medical examination after a family reunion, I can be quite brief. The Foreign Office has no mandate to intervene in the private sphere. As a result, he cannot arrange a home visit. Mr De Smet, I would like to point out that the role of the CGRA is limited to examining individual applications for international protection and assessing whether someone is entitled to international protection status. Therefore, CGRA is not, in principle, competent to take preventive measures with regard to genital mutilation. This important role must be fulfilled by other actors. As regards the practical aspects of the implementation of the follow-up by CGRA, each year, on the anniversary date of the recognition of refugee status, a letter is sent to the parents of the child recognized as a refugee, asking them to send, within one month, a recent medical certificate attesting to the child's non-excision. A blank medical certificate is attached to this letter. Once the medical certificate has been received, it is analyzed to assess its probative value. If there is either anomaly, a new certificate is requested. If we do not receive a response to the request, a reminder letter is sent. In the event of a problematic certificate or failure to respond to this request, the parent(s) shall be summoned to explain the matter. In case of serious suspicion of female circumcision, the prosecutor's office is immediately contacted. Cases of suspected female genital mutilation (FGM) transmitted by the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) to the Public Prosecutor's Office are very rare, ranging from one to three per year. This, of course, remains far too much and is a fight to be waged at the highest level. I cannot provide you with any information on the risk of FGM that people in irregular residence are at risk because it is a specific audience.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers and for the announcement of structural funding. This is very important for organizations, and especially for victims. Throughout the migration process of women, who account for 54% of migrants in Europe, it is important to be careful that they have a space for dialogue and expression on what they are experiencing or at risk of suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. You talked about a structural partnership with the association(s) that have been following this fight against female genital mutilation (FGM) for years. There is indeed a request from them to be able to examine the condition of a little girl who arrives in Belgium in order to even better prevent the risk of excision to her or to surround her, through a medical and psychological approach, in case she arrives here with an excision. It is in my opinion a case that deserves to be followed up in order to really fight against these female genital mutilations, which are a terrible scourge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u43	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is a matter of particular concern to me, because I was the co-author of a resolution on the meteors. I also know that you are involved in the problem of meteors, since you are participating in a working group on the follow-up to this resolution, which is organized at federal level by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the special committee on the colonial past, attention was also paid to the problem of metises. We also had a testimony from an association of metises, with Mrs Goegebeur as spokesperson. She mentioned that it was difficult for a mother of 80 years to obtain a visa to visit her child who had been brought to Belgium at the time. However, the situation of metises, which have long hoped to be reunited with their families, can be seen as a situation which justifies a visa for humanitarian reasons. You and your cabinet are very concerned about the situation of the metises and their families. That's why I was wondering if what was said there was true. What types of visas can be issued for family members of metissen? Are these humanitarian visas or short-stay visas? Is there a special procedure? Can you put numbers on the applications? Have there indeed been difficulties for the family members of metisses to obtain visas? How many visas were refused for particular individual reasons? I can imagine that COVID-19 was more of a barrier to issuing visas. Are you planning measures to facilitate obtaining visas for family members of metissen? I apologise for not being able to listen to the answer, because I also have to take part in a topical debate at the moment. But I will read the answer with great interest. Thank you in advance for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u44	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in 2018, the House adopted a resolution on the question of the colonial Métis, which, among other things, asked the government "to consider how, by moral and administrative means, it can redress, on the one hand, the past injustices done to African mothers to whom their children have been abducted and, on the other hand, the harm caused to the Métis from Belgian colonization". At the hearings of the Special Committee on the colonial past of Belgium and its consequences, representatives of associations of colonial mestizos told us about the difficulties they are experiencing today in order for their families to visit them in Belgium. It is apparently very complicated for them to obtain a visa. And time does its work, for some families, there is an urgent need in view of the age of the mothers from whom their children were taken away, several decades ago. It therefore seems that facilitating the issuance of visas for these families, especially for humanitarian reasons, could be one of the ways - among many others - of redressing the injustices experienced by these mothers by administrative means. Mr Secretary of State, what explains these difficulties today? How many such applications are currently under way? How many refusals were given and why? Does your office work to improve and facilitate access to visas for these mothers and families, in particular by simplifying administrative procedures to avoid long and multiple trips throughout their country of origin? This is one of the points raised by one of the persons interviewed in this committee. Can these visas be granted on humanitarian grounds?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 March 2018, the House adopted a resolution on the segregation of the meteors from the period of Belgian colonisation in Africa. It was an important step for this group, which has fallen victim to colonization. On the basis of this resolution, many steps have already been taken to correct a number of injustices and difficulties for the metises, and rightly so. Although the resolution does not specifically mention the issue of visas and the difficulties involved, I have expressed my willingness to work together on these issues as well. A number of detailed contacts took place with the interest groups concerned. The communication was always open and transparent. The Foreign Minister's cabinet was also constantly involved. It takes on the coordinating role in the implementation of the resolution. It is important to know that it was originally only a question of facilitating short-stay visas for family visits. Various problems may arise, such as the absence of documents proving kinship, a stay in the past during which the length of the visa has been exceeded, etc. In this context, two files were submitted to us. With the individuals concerned, the crucial elements of their files are examined. For example, they may indicate which documents are still missing and whether or not some documents are available. In this way, it is possible to establish an application which will also be approved. We therefore avoid the justified frustration that family visa applications are still refused. However, it is essential for me to have personal contact, directly with the applicants, in order to review the application, not with intermediaries. The past has shown that contacts with only intermediaries can cause problems. There are often misunderstandings. For example, the questions submitted refer to a specific case. Well, there have been several constructive consultations with those involved, even before the relevant committee meeting. Those concerned are not at all a asking party for a humanitarian visa, they just want a visa for a family visit. That application is complete and will also be submitted in the short term, so that the mother can come here on holiday this summer. So we are working together with those involved, which is important. The issue of humanitarian visas was raised only recently in January. It was new to us. In principle, I am not opposed to the use of humanitarian visas. This was also communicated to the persons concerned, but we also said that this would be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, as is always the case. After all, the purpose of a humanitarian visa is to settle here permanently. So it's different from a family visit. Decisions will therefore be taken on the basis of all elements of the file. Finally, of course, because of the covid pandemic, there have been very strict restrictions in the last two years. That was also clearly communicated. This did not make family visits possible, as this type of visit was not mentioned as essential in the law. That was true for everyone, by the way. Since my arrival, a year and a half ago, no visas have been issued. Like everyone else, I hope that we can put the covid period behind us, so that international travel can be made easier again. With regard to the question of Belgian nationality, Mr De Smet, I must refer you to the Minister of Justice who has jurisdiction over the Belgian Nationality Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We have a colonial past, and we have to assume it. So we also have a duty of justice vis-à-vis those children and mothers who have lived the worst. How can we only imagine the lives of these people forcibly torn from their mother or child because their very existence contradicted the ideology of racial segregation that our country advocated at the time? We therefore have a moral duty to do everything we can to repair, try to repair or at least reduce injustice. In this story, time is our enemy: mothers age inexorably and soon will not be there to find their children. You have the opportunity to reduce this deadline, and I mean that you are working there and working to help these mothers and their families come here, by facilitating the granting of the visa in particular. I stress very much the issue of administrative procedures. It is up to us that the requests for documents are not clear, that some people have to cross over the entire Congo to return to Kinshasa. There must be a way to facilitate these steps from the beginning to avoid these long and difficult journeys for the elderly. I invite you to give this particular priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u47	Mr President, I can only support the point made by my colleague that time is playing against us and is passing very quickly. It is also in our interest to ensure that, whatever the procedures, these people can come to Belgium in the context of these very special and painful cases. Mr Secretary of State, thank you in advance for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u48	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last January, as announced in your general policy note, you presented your new action plan to activate asylum seekers in the labour market. In particular, you mentioned the fact that a person who has applied for asylum must wait months for a response and that this waiting time could be used to facilitate its integration into society. While the objective seems commendable at first glance, this situation causes several difficulties. First, this creates insecurity for employers, as those who hire asylum-seekers have no guarantee that they will receive their asylum applications. Secondly, asylum seekers who rely on Fedasil accommodation will have to pay a large part of their salary. This therefore creates inequality between different asylum-seekers. Thirdly, is this not going to give false hope to asylum seekers by giving them ways to integrate into Belgian society and then rejecting the asylum application they have submitted? Mr Secretary of State, on what basis, by whom and how will be chosen the training courses to which asylum seekers will be directed, as well as the professions to which they will be offered? Have you worked with trade unions and employers' organizations to develop this plan? If so, what has emerged? How do you respond to those who suspect your plan to pursue hidden objectives, namely to have the Fedasil reception centres financed by the asylum seekers themselves and empty the centres more quickly so that the network is less saturated? Finally, do you not believe that asylum seekers who will benefit from your plan, provided they prove their integration and work in a labour-intensive sector, should have access to the single permit? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u49	Mr De Smet, it is true that we are working on a broad and sustained activation policy to support and strengthen applicants for international protection during their asylum procedure. Interviews are currently being conducted with several major sectors, as well as with employers and the social partners, in order to examine the possibilities of reaching a cooperation agreement. We are also considering launching a few pilot projects in the near future, in which we advocate an integrated approach with adequate training and information for applicants for international protection. The objective of the activation policy is quite clear. The aim is to empower asylum seekers by giving them a significant daily activity, on the one hand, and by enabling them to acquire skills that may be useful in the event of a subsequent stay in Belgium or return to their country of origin, on the other. In this regard, when you ask if this is not problematic in the context of the return, it is a bit of criticism that is given by some opposition parties. However, academic reports specify the opposite. When someone made a migratory journey where he abandoned everything behind him, and sometimes the whole neighborhood paid for him to come here, returning is a failure. So if this person can work here, can acquire skills to be able to return home with skills and not just be pushed back by telling him that he cannot be here, precisely in the case of voluntary return, we can help these people to be able to return home without this necessarily being a failure. Hence philosophy based on academic relationships. Personally, I always compare this with a highway and a bus stop. Asylum seekers are told to sit down for a year and do nothing at all. After a year, they will be told what they can do, whether they take the road to an indefinite period in Belgium or to their country of origin. In relation to this, every citizen must have the opportunity to grow, to strengthen himself as a human being. It is therefore not at all a hidden agenda for self-financing anything. The goal really is to make sure that people can work. We see that there is great mobility or people who are very interested in gaining a certain degree of autonomy to be able to strengthen themselves as human beings. The objective of the activation policy is not to interfere with ongoing asylum procedures. Consequently, employment cannot be taken into account in obtaining refugee status. International protection applicants recognized as refugees are exempt from the single permit. They therefore have immediate access to the labour market. As you know, whether you're working or not, it doesn't impact receiving international protection. In the meantime, each asylum-seeker must be given the opportunity to undergo training and strengthen himself. One must be able to guarantee that no citizen is put at a bus stop by telling him to wait for a year to see what is being done with him then. I do not think that is the best way to deal with an asylum seeker. That's not what these people want, that's not what the community wants. In relation to this, I believe that this activation policy may allow for a different view of the asylum seeker. This view makes it possible to see the asylum-seeker as someone who also has a huge desire to strengthen and take training, to be able to contribute and respond to those who, unfortunately, think that they are people who do not want to do anything. The opposite is true, fortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u50	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. In substance, I agree with you. These people must be able to work as quickly as possible, thanks to the shortening of the period. If we help them, it's even better, and if we equip them with skills that will also help them. Employers still have to play the game and, unfortunately, they sometimes hesitate to employ labour, of which they are not sure that they will be able to stay. We will follow this file and the results of the pilot experiments you conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, we can only welcome the immense generosity of the population and the management of the reception of Ukrainian refugees. However, there is still a tense situation or even a crisis in the reception of asylum seekers. I visited the Petit-Château last week to see this situation. As we know, our reception network cannot absorb the entire reception of asylum seekers. The lines in front of the Petit-Château are still present, although it seems that this was no longer the case this morning. The situation remains complicated. I would remind you that Belgium and its Government have been convicted by the Brussels Court of First Instance for failing to comply with their international obligations. Last week, the situation was very tense in front of the centre. The staff fears the worst. People had to be taken care of because they were suffocating. Indeed, the number of places was limited and people sometimes pushed to try to have a place. Mr Secretary of State, we have been debating this issue for months in this committee. My group has proposed constructive solutions. This includes additional resources granted to the Defence, which is already making a great effort, accommodation in hotels allocated in an emergency and on a temporary basis. Another urgent solution would be, as is the case today for Ukrainian refugees, the accommodation of asylum seekers by citizens. Mr Secretary of State, are you in favour of making appointments online that would be proposed and not imposed for refugees who are not Ukrainians in order to avoid queues? What measures can you put in place to end this situation? Will new places open in the coming weeks? Are you in favour of housing for citizens with, this time, support that would be given to them to manage this emergency situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, Belgium has been unable to guarantee the right to asylum since last year. The outbreak of the war in Ukraine seems to have perpetuated that problem. Again, the policy authorities are not able to register all asylum seekers who report to the Klein Kasteelje. The Belgian Government was convicted of this in January. The periodic penalty payments will continue to rise and have been increased on Friday because the Belgian State does not fulfil its obligations. Every day, people stand at the Klein Kastiltskin. Due to the shortage of reception places, they are divided into groups with different priorities. Those who are considered the least vulnerable often end up on the streets for a long period of time. The opening of the gates of the Klein Kastiltje therefore creates a lot of tension. Last Friday I was there, it was heartbreaking. Eventually that day ended well because everyone could be let in, thanks to the continuous hard work of Fedasil employees and the NGOs. The relief of those people was clearly visible, it was the first time in weeks that that happened. But the problem is not solved: last Monday people were refused registration again. What has been decided to respect the court ruling and to introduce an adequate registration system? What is the government doing to help NGOs, as well as regional and municipal authorities, to support people who are unable to register, and are therefore not being received? How many people have been put out in the last few weeks and ended up on the waiting list? How many people on the waiting list are actually registered? How many convictions per one-sided petition have been pronounced against the Belgian State? Have new shelters been opened? Where, how much and for how long?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have been working with Fedasil for several months to expand the Fedasil reception network for applicants for international protection. Between 1 September 2021 and 1 February 2022, more than 3,000 reception places have been created. Fedasil remains in search of additional shelters, including through discussions with the Government of the Buildings and Defence. Since 1 February, shelters have been opened within the existing centres in Jambes, Lommel, Ypres and Aarlen. In the coming months, new reception centres will open in Dilbeek, Machelen, Jemappes, Boom, among others. By the beginning of April, the capacity of the federal centres will be strengthened by the installation of containers. The number of places will therefore be able to increase in Molenbeek, Lommel and Nunceveux. In total, this will represent an additional 2,000 reception places, which will in particular compensate for the planned closure of certain private places, whose impact we do not know at the federal level: in Geel, Lombardsijde and Malines. Despite these enormous efforts by Fedasil and its reception partners, it remains difficult to deal with all applicants for international protection immediately and the reception network is saturated. So today we actually caught everyone, last Friday as well. The people of Fedasil and the Foreign Office are working very hard on the Little Castle in difficult circumstances. I note that this is the case in Belgium and in our neighbours. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, I had read an article at Ter Apel's recording centre – the Dutch equivalent of our Petit-Château – about people sleeping on chairs because of a combined pressure from Ukrainians and asylum seekers. This increases the importance of the challenges posed by the present situation. The high reception for Ukrainian refugees has therefore received a great deal of attention, but for my services, this has never led to the crisis of reception for applicants for international protection disappearing into the background. Fedasil executes all individual judgments at the Klein Kastiltje and captures the persons. From Fedasil there is regular contact with local organisations and local authorities to alleviate the difficulties of people who cannot be taken care of. Since the preparation of the waiting list on 24 January, 515 people have received a document inviting them to register on the waiting list until 25 March. During the same period 386 people actually registered on this waiting list. During the same period, the agency was also convicted 236 times by the labour court in Brussels for files to provide immediate reception. The waiting list is therefore a necessary measure, not to refuse reception, but to give priority reception to persons who have not already applied in another Member State. Such persons may also register their application for international protection. The last few weeks have been difficult, which has also undermined the right to apply for asylum, but the creation of the registration centre on the Heizel also reduces the pressure on the Klein Kastiltje. The group of Ukrainians and recognised refugees from Ukraine are moving from the Little Castle to Palace 8. The SpotFreedom Campaign I launched for Ukrainian refugees was necessary to be prepared for those first arrivals, both for the reception of refugees from Ukraine and for the safeguarding of the asylum and reception system for applicants for international protection. I certainly remember the idea of using capacity initially reserved for Ukrainian refugees for the reception of other applicants for international protection. We are already doing this in two different centres today. These include the Jules Bordet Centre in Brussels and the Sebrechts Centre in Molenbeek, which are now used to accommodate people who apply for international protection. Mr. Moutquin, you are rightly asking whether certain sites could be used. These two centres, which were first used for Ukrainians, are now being used for asylum seekers. I hope that you and the other members of this commission will agree that this is a good thing and that you will encourage the federal government to continue to do so in order to avoid people sleeping on the streets at all costs. I know how complicated it is at the local level, but when you're faced with people sleeping on the street, you have to do what you need to do. When communities are made available, the government has no choice but to use these means to ensure that no one is sleeping on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I would like once again to highlight the work of people, particularly of Fedasil, in front of the Petit-Château, but also of organizations that do what they can. And I think a lot of people are doing what they can in this context. I would remind you that hospitality is not a gift but an international duty. We do not give reception or allow people to apply for asylum in Belgium to give them a gift, but to respect international law. This is the framework of the government agreement, respect for international law. As you know, we must not let the idea, which some people are referring to, be left to the idea that there would be a double standard in relation to different types of refugees and migrants. That is why solutions must be found quickly. There are still places to find. There may still be solutions to imagine. Today, we should thank those hosting companies that some have pointed out for years – this is not the case with your party – and to whom we are now asking to host Ukrainian refugees. I think it's a solution. There is the question of the Brussels Region, which is indeed competent on the issue of homelessness. I would like to say that if there is no place in the reception network and these people are not allowed to have asylum status, they remain homeless. As a result, the Brussels Region must take care of it, but there is a dialogue to have, as you do, so as not to reject responsibility but rather to find solutions together. That's the priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u55	In the actua debate earlier, you said that the registration of Ukrainian refugees is difficult everywhere, except in Belgium; of course thanks to the fantastic work of the Foreign Office, Fedasil, the Red Cross and other organisations. This also shows that a great deal is possible if there is political will. It is a very big difference from the situation at the Klein Kastiltskin. The reality there is that the right to asylum is still being violated. Then we really can't go on like this. I'm glad to hear that a lot of new shelters are finally coming. However, you did not say anything about setting up an adequate registration system. That's where I'm gonna sit on my hunger.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u56	Secretary of State, a few days ago, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) submitted its long-awaited investigation report on the Frontex agency. In any case, we looked forward to it firmly. The report is not yet public. However, it appears that on 7 March this report was discussed in Frontex's board of directors. According to the first echoes of the report, the content is extremely serious. It would demonstrate that Frontex managers have voluntarily covered cases of refoulement. Accordingly, OLAF explicitly asks Frontex's Board of Directors to impose sanctions on the persons involved. The Vivaldi coalition agreement stipulates that European agencies such as Frontex must respect international law. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm the existence of OLAF's report? Did you get to know about it? Can you confirm the information from the report that these are very serious facts, namely the concealment of cases of refoulement? Can you share OLAF's report or the information it contains with Parliament? Was the FDO report discussed at the March 7 Board meeting? What measures and sanctions could Belgium take against those involved in these cases of concealment and refoulement? Do you think that the people concerned can continue to be active within the Frontex agency? I suspect that this requires even more caution on your part, but I do hope that you will be able to give us some answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u57	Mr President, I will provide my answer in French and Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u58	The Frontex Management Board held an extraordinary meeting in this dossier on 25 February and 7 March 2022. During these sessions, the current EU law rules and the procedures to be followed following OLAF's investigation were explained. The content of the file was not discussed. Belgium was represented on this board of directors, as always, by the federal police, under the authority of Mrs Verlinden. The members of Frontex's Management Board continued the discussions on the OLAF report and agreed that the report should be sent in the required form to the parties concerned in order to give them the opportunity to respond to the findings. As this investigation is still ongoing, Board members are not in a position to comment further. We must also protect the confidentiality of ongoing investigations, possible future investigations, subsequent judicial proceedings, personal data and procedural rights. Any conclusions of the report will be considered by the Management Board at a later stage. For the time being, political authorities do not have access to it. In the event of further proceedings in the context of a disciplinary investigation, I shall determine our country's position in consultation with my colleague Verlinden and give the necessary instructions to the Belgian representative on the board of directors for implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u59	Secretary of State, it is once again a worrying episode that highlights Frontex's negative actions. I understand, of course, the reserve necessary for the proper conduct of the investigation with respect for all parties. In any case, I hope that in the coming weeks or months we will be able to have this report and discuss it with you in the Committee on the Interior. I will certainly ask for this because clarity must be made in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u60	On Tuesday afternoon 15 March 2022 a heavy fight broke out in the asylum centre in the West Flemish Poelkappelle. The police came to the scene massively. It was a conflict between Afghan and Palestinian residents with more than 40 people involved. The staff of Fedasil has tried in vain to intervene and fortunately was able to count on a quick intervention from the local police. In the meantime, the instigators would no longer stay in the center. A single man was transferred to a closed center and a family was sent to a return home. Were there any records of the incidents? How much? What nationalities were involved in this massive fight? What action has been taken in response to this incident and will this have an impact on the asylum seekers who have behaved badly in relation to their asylum applications and their status in that country? What is your approach to reducing violence within the asylum centres? How much money have you entered in your budget for this? Do you intend to deploy additional personnel in this asylum centre to maintain order?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, on previous oral questions, I have already received the proposal to submit my questions in writing if I only wish to obtain figures. Unfortunately, I won't get an answer to that. So today I have to put my question to you in an oral form. In the Chambers Committee on the Interior of 11 January 2022, the Director-General of Fedasil referred to an increasing number of incidents in reception centres with and between unaccompanied minors. The colleague explained it. We regularly see fights pop up in actuality. How many and what incidents have taken place in recent years? I would have liked an overview of that. What is the profile of those involved in these incidents? How often did the violence target staff in the shelters? What is the total cost resulting from such incidents and fights? What is Fedasil's policy on its recovery? What happens if those involved are insolvent? Then who's gonna bear the costs? In how many cases was a sanction imposed? Article 45 of the Reception Act provides for that possibility. How is this applied? What impact does the involvement in fighting and other incidents in reception centres have on the further asylum procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, two weeks ago, another major incident occurred in the Poelkapelle shelter. The mayor of Poelkapelle asked you in a letter for structural measures in this regard. A provisional allocation stop would be in place for this centre. Have you discussed this with the mayor concerned? Can you confirm that there is currently an allocation stop in force in that center? If so, for how long? What additional structural measures have you taken to prevent the repetition of acts of violence in that centre and in other reception centres? After all, the list is long. What specific measures have been taken against the numerous Amokmakers in Poelkapelle to prevent them from committing such facts again and to continue to object to our asylum system?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u63	There were indeed several incidents two weeks ago at the Poelkapelle shelter. It was a fight involving both residents and six external persons. As far as residents were concerned, they were both Palestinian and Afghan residents. I have already explained clearly what I think of this: I find it incomprehensible that when people arrive somewhere and ask for international protection, they take part in group fights and make employees victims, whatever the living conditions. So we immediately took the necessary sanctions. The initiator is placed in the closed center. Also as a signal to the rest of the group, it seemed important to us that starters of fighting know what awaits them. They must, above all, be sanctioned in this area. I also asked for zero tolerance to be applied in that center. It is important to know that the least problems in the centre are dealt with immediately. Additional security personnel have also been recruited to ensure security on the ground and to ensure that everyone complies with the rules, and also to ensure that those who do not can not set things up, but are immediately intercepted. Besides, there's a police investigation going on. In reply to questions about the other persons concerned, I can only refer to that investigation and hope that penalties will be followed quickly, so that it is clear to those who behave badly, no matter where they come from, that they will be subject to a penalty immediately, a penalty which, as far as I am concerned, may be as strict as possible. Actions have also been agreed to bring that centre to rest in anticipation, in particular a temporary allocation stop, which was valid until the rest. For the nationalities concerned, this allocation freeze still applies, so as to ensure a better distribution of residents by nationality. More generally, incident management is an important priority. Achieving such better management is also a priority in Fedasil's new management plan, along with many other priorities, such as decent and decent care and the provision of good training. The prevention of incidents and the guarantee of security on the ground is now fortunately included as a priority in this new plan. In the coming period, work will continue on more comprehensive incident management, involving the departments, namely the police and the judiciary. As far as the figures are concerned, the answers to your written questions on this matter I have just signed all of them, and so you will be delivered today, if that has not already happened. I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u64	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. During the previous legislature, a federal police liaison officer was appointed to Fedasil. His task was to identify the incidents in the asylum centres and to advise Fedasil in the event of major incidents and in the identification of certain trends. Cooperation agreements between the local reception centres of Fedasil and the local police were also concluded in the previous legislature. For us, it is important that all the measures taken during the previous legislature are maintained and fully implemented. I would also urge you to come to the relevant committee once a year to explain the policy measures to combat all these forms of violence. This allows us to study evolution and adjust policy where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, apologies accepted. I look forward to receiving the numbers. I am pleased to hear that you yourself say that fighting in asylum centres is out of the question. I fully agree with you on that. It is impossible for employees to fear their safety in the performance of their duties. Of course, it is unacceptable that other residents should be intimidated or attacked. Those who are already guilty of violence in an asylum centre risk doing so in the future in public space. We need a lick-on-piece policy. I hear you saying that the sanctions may be as severe as possible for you. I hope that the sanctions systems will be used well, which I hope to read in your reply to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I believe that the fact that there were outside parties involved in these fights is quite serious. You refer to a number of changes in the policy. You say that there is never an excuse for such fighting and that severe punishments must follow. I hope that we will find out whether these penalties are effective and severe in the future. The only real punishment appropriate for such acts is a plane ticket home, a forced return to the country of origin. For so-called refugees, I call them fake refugees, who set things up here and who cause violence here, put real refugees at risk. They ensure that the people who come here for security are put at risk in the asylum-seekers' centres. That is absolutely unacceptable. You're talking about zero tolerance. Do I understand that correctly? Is it about zero tolerance in the centre of Poelkapelle, or zero tolerance in all asylum seekers' centres, as far as violent facts are concerned? I didn't get that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u67	I asked you to put a specific focus on that in Poelkapelle. Fedasil has indicated that the zero tolerance is also applied in the other centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u68	Thank you for the clarification. You say that extra surveillance is provided for the centre in Poelkapelle, but that also costs extra. For example, taxpayers are punished for acts committed by violent illegal migrants in the asylum centres. The allocation stop would apply until the rest returns, but it is not clear when it will be or what the parameters for it will be. At least it doesn't seem like a healthy situation to me. What you are saying about the spread of nationalities is yet another sign on the wall that the multiculture is not working and that it creates multiethnic and multi-religious conflicts within and outside our asylum centres. Unfortunately, that is a taste of what awaits us over the next few decades, after all these illegal migrants have been released to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u69	I share your view that the archives must be accessible to researchers, regardless of their origin. In this sense, it is important that researchers from the former colonies also have access to archives in our country. The type of visa requested and the conditions for obtaining it depend on the duration and purpose of the stay, as is always the case. On the assumption that the consultation of the so-called African archives by researchers from the former colonies could take place, at least initially, as part of a short stay, i.e. a maximum of 90 days, the criteria for examining the visa application are laid down in the Community Visa Code, the Schengen Code. These researchers will therefore have to establish the purpose of their stay, demonstrate that they have financial and medical coverage and provide guarantees of return upon expiry of their visa. Prior contact with the Belgian Embassy, which is competent for their place of residence, could facilitate the understanding of their visa application and thus facilitate the issuance of the visa. If the person wishes to carry out research for a longer period, it will therefore not be necessary to pass the short-stay visa, but it will be necessary to apply for a long-stay visa of type D. To work in Belgium as a professional researcher, it is necessary first to conclude a reception agreement with an approved research institute, and in this case a residence permit will be issued for the entire duration of the research. From 1 December 2022 a new regulation will also apply to researchers under the European directive on this subject, according to which a single permit may be requested online by the research institute itself, which will facilitate the work of the institute and of the person who wishes to do this research here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u70	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. We will put these elements into the committee's reflection on the colonial past and add it to all the work on the archives which are obviously an important element in Parliament's work to make transparency in this dossier and in our history, finally. I take note of the various conditions. Of course, the question was also to facilitate access. So this is the description of what is happening. Are institutions such as the Museum of Africa or the General Archives of the Kingdom likely to give these approvals to these researchers? Or are they other institutions? I do not know if I have understood what bodies can give this type of approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u71	I do not know by heart who exactly is approved or not, but only authorized bodies can do so. But tell you exactly who is approved and who is not, cold, that is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u72	Is it fair, even if I answer later, to dig into this question to tell me whether, for example, these two bodies, the African Museum and the AGRs, could be approved or not? What bodies are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u73	What I propose to do, on the basis of your question, is to send you an e-mail with the concrete answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u75	Unfortunately, it is becoming a bit of an annual tradition that during the New Year's Eve in Brussels, but also in other major cities, riots are breaking out and bus booths and cars are being set on fire and vandalized. This was also the case during the last New Year's Night. In Brussels, the police had to act no less than 528 times this year. How many of the people then arrested without a residence permit were ordered to leave the territory? How long have these people been on our territory? How many of them didn't get the first order to leave the territory? How many of the people involved were effectively deported?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u76	The Foreign Affairs Department did not receive any administrative reports from the police on the New Year's Eve following riots in large cities. The questions are therefore without object, as the services cannot, of course, act if there are no administrative reports. This may mean that there was no one who is not a Belgian and would thus pass through the Foreign Affairs Office in an administrative report. So they were either all Belgians, or the administrative report was not drawn up on the basis of the police's work. On the basis of the fact that we do not therefore have any information on administrative reports of persons who might be covered by the Foreign Affairs Office, the question is without object. Still, about New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u77	I find it striking as there were figures for a similar question from a colleague last year. Apparently, the reports were concerned at the time. However, I had the impression that the riots occurred on a similar scale and order of magnitude as in the past. So either there is a communication problem when it comes to delivering the reports, or there were indeed no strangers. Perhaps the profile of those involved has changed or less repressive action has been taken by the police zones. In any case, I find it striking, especially in conjunction with the answer I received from Minister Verlinden. I asked her a similar question about her powers. She told me the police don't keep structured information based on illegality. That is very strange since that information was available last year. I will continue to deal with that problem with Minister Verlinden. In any case, there is no doubt that we cannot become lax in this. It is not because the problem returns on an annual basis that we have to accept it, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, for several months now, Fedasil's staff have always been present. It was shaken by a migration crisis that cannot be denied and that persists. In a difficult context, the covid crisis did not help Fedasil to carry out its missions in good conditions. This staff, at one point, referred to their ras-le-bol, demonstrated not to have a salary revalorisation or private benefits but to ask for additional means to be able to exercise their profession and their host mission with respect for each beneficiary. It is in this difficult context that the Agency's staff is still present today by mobilising themselves to meet the urgent needs associated with the massive arrival of Ukrainians, in particular at the Heysel registration centre. But pulling too much on the rope, she'll end up breaking up. I know it's not your will, but today it's a fact. There is a staff that is being asked on all sides and needs hope and perspective. Mr Secretary of State, what is in place to carry out all the tasks with the current framework? Are certain tasks being reconsidered to alleviate the workload? Are priorities defined? Have new human resources needs been identified? Have you requested additional funding? Type of function, number of FTEs? Are new recruitments envisaged? I already have a part of the answer. I think this morning you were participating in a Job Day launched by Fedasil. Are incentives being deployed to thank all those who continue to respond present and mobilize on weekends and public holidays, particularly at the registration centre and in support of the opening of the new structures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u79	Mr Rigot, with regard to human resources, the staff framework is systematically adapted to the evolving capacity of the network. For the time being, the activity within several agencies of the Agency – mainly at the central headquarters – is in sharp decline, if not temporary, due to the call to staff at the headquarters and the centres to support the reception services of Ukrainian refugees in Heysel. In addition, an appeal was made to officials of other Federal Public Services as part of Ms. De Sutter's Special Federal Forces mission. Its employees are therefore temporarily seconded to the Interior SPF and made available to Fedasil. Since then, some 20 federal public servants have already come forward. The first of these began on 21 and 24 March. The others will begin in the coming weeks. No specific priority has been identified. Fedasil tries to act effectively on all fronts simultaneously. At the moment, a Job Day is being held in collaboration with the VDAB and Actiris with a view to hiring additional staff as soon as possible. We all know that there is a shortage of labour, but we must try to do what is necessary. It's not obvious. The funds needed to hire additional staff in the context of the Ukrainian crisis still need to be approved. All additional missions are performed as service missions, which means that travel time between home and workplace is counted as working time. Indemnities usually paid under unusual benefits are also granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. The Job Day, which is taking place today and must certainly still be in progress, is organized to fill 150 jobs. As you indicated, it is not within the scope of Heysel's needs since the appropriations have not yet been approved. I hope that your colleagues will be able to unblock these necessary resources for both Fedasil and the Office for Foreigners who are on the ground and who have to deploy their teams. On the other hand, with regard to measures taken to encourage staff, these are traditional measures that already exist; I see no additional measures. At some point, I believe that, in this exceptional situation, we must also unlock exceptional means and know how to say thank you. When the rope is too tight, the staff can also say that it is good to have the weekend benefits and the travel time, but in the light of exhaustion, this will not be enough soon. Here, I must really encourage you to push so that in exceptional circumstances, Fedasil unlocks exceptional means to motivate the troops. As long as you don't have staff on the Heysel in a structural way, i.e. in the form of commitments, you will need thirty to fifty employees of Fedasil on a daily basis. If we no longer have them, it is the recording – which works well, as was mentioned earlier – that will unfortunately no longer work, to the detriment of Fedasil and his collaborators, but especially of Ukrainians who are waiting to be registered. We must therefore go further and, on the side of Fedasil, seek a temporary solution to a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, a few weeks ago the CGVS lifted the partial freeze on decisions on Afghan asylum seekers. That decision was taken initially because the situation in Afghanistan was too unclear after the departure of the United States. One might think that the situation there is now improving, but nothing is less true. As early as the first weeks after the Taliban took over, human rights organisations found that human rights were being violated. Minority groups, women, human rights activists and journalists were attacked. There were still fights between the Taliban and the remnants of IS and between the Taliban and the opposition in Panjshir. On top of that, there is the famine, because 95% of the population do not have enough to eat and 23 million people suffer from serious malnutrition. That's half the population. More than 13,000 babies have died of malnutrition since early 2022. Why did the CGVS decide to issue negative assessments of Afghans again? However, last month UNHCR published guidelines asking for the freezing of Afghans' decisions to be extended. UNCHR is usually moderate but clearly states that there is not enough information at the moment to say anything about the security situation in the country. Journalists were muzzled and international organisations reporting had to leave. In the meantime, dozens of negative decisions have already been taken in Belgium, including for very vulnerable people with serious problems, including those who have been staying here for more than ten years and even for women and unaccompanied minors. I do not understand that, Mr Secretary of State. What reasons does the CGVS have for lifting the freezing? How can it be explained that they ignore UNHCR's advice and consider vulnerable people safe under the terrorist Taliban regime? Countries like the Netherlands are waiting for more clarity and have extended the moratorium on decisions. Will Belgium recognise the Taliban regime in order to be able to return the wrongly rejected asylum seekers? Will Belgium regularize the Afghans? Either they must be returned or they must be granted a right of residence. After all, creating people without papers is contrary to European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u82	Colleagues, like you, I have noted that the CGVS is taking decisions again for Afghanistan. As you know, the CGVS is independent of asylum applications. We must defend that independence at all times. It is not up to politics to decide whether a particular country of origin is safe or not for certain applications for international protection. I hope you can confirm all that. In fact, the CGVS has recently taken negative decisions. Many people can claim refugee status because they fear persecution by the Taliban. According to the CGVS, refugee status will be granted in more situations than before in view of the active persecution of specific persons by the Taliban. However, the Commissioner-General takes the view that there is no longer a need for subsidiary protection because there is no longer any arbitrary violence in the context of an armed conflict, as was the situation for the taking over of power by the Taliban. Decisions of refusal shall state in detail the reasons on which they are based and the information on which they are based. All I'm saying is that the CGVS is in complete independence. Any negative decision may be the subject of an appeal before the Council for Aliens' Disputes. No decision has yet been taken on these refusal decisions. It is not because CGRA refuses an asylum application that it allows people to be forcibly returned to Afghanistan. Article 3 of the ECHR should always be respected on each return. This should be done on a thorough and individual basis. I can confirm that, at the moment, no forced return is being organized to Afghanistan. Of course, there is no negotiation with the Taliban to organise forced return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u83	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. I still find it a strange decision by the CGVS not to give subsidiary protection anymore. We know that the situation in Afghanistan is still very precarious. Mr Daems has outlined this situation well. You say that it is not up to politics to act in place of the CGVS. That's right. However, I would like to refer to what we are doing now for Ukrainian refugees. There it is the policy that decides to grant a temporary protection status. With your powers, you can make a decision to postpone at least the decisions when an international organisation such as the UNHCR, not least, has made recommendations to us on this matter. I am very concerned about this, especially because you say that this regime in Afghanistan will not allow for forced return. Then let's follow up carefully on voluntary return. Can we reasonably assume that people from Afghanistan who get a negative decision will return, given the situation in the country? I share Mrs Daems' concern: what will we do if she ends up in illegal residence? This is how we create another vulnerable group in society. How do you estimate that? That is perhaps something for another question: if there is no forced return, how will the voluntary return go? How will you monitor that? I have a lot of questions to ask and I have raised my objections.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, in your opinion, a negative decision does not mean that people will be returned. How am I supposed to interpret that? If people can't be sent back, then you shouldn't give them a negative decision, should you? Specialized lawyers, refugee organisations, but also all guardians of minor refugees, are shocked about those negative decisions. I repeat that the UNHCR is clearly asking for the freezing of decisions to be extended, because the security situation in Afghanistan is not clear at all. How can the CGVS decide for good reasons that this situation is known? How can we explain that the decision to end the freeze fell very quickly after the war broke out in Ukraine and it became clear that Belgium would have to cope with a lot of Ukrainians? It seems as if this is a political decision to penalise certain groups, because there is a shortage of reception places, for which your policy is also responsible. Such a difference in treatment is unacceptable. In this way, you will only increase competition between groups of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u85	Mr President, in the committee we can say and find everything and have differences of opinion, but now we are beginning to think of special conspiracy theories that, at the time of the attack in Ukraine, politics is imposing certain constraints on the CGVS. Parties are free to believe in a crazy theory. There are even those who believe in communism, but well, sometimes we have to remain rational, otherwise this debate will not make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u86	Mr Secretary of State, at the committee meeting of 16 March 2022, you stated that Fedasil would take over the operation of the Sol Cress reception centre in Spa from Svasta, because the latter would not fulfil its obligations. There are still a number of centres operated by private partners, hence some questions. When will the management of the Sol Cress shelter be fully taken over by Fedasil and how will the transfer proceed? How do you evaluate your cooperation with the private partners in general? Are there also reports in the other reception centres operated by private partners that certain obligations are not being fulfilled? Finally, are there plans to transfer the exploitation by private partners of other reception centres to Fedasil? If so, for what reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u87	Mr Van Langenhove, before taking over the Sol Cress reception centre, legal and financial agreement must first be found with the current operator. Fedasil hopes to be able to accomplish that task in the month of April. A further and more global assessment of the functioning of private operators will be carried out in the coming months. There are no problems in the other reception centres organized by private operators requiring drastic intervention as foreseen in Spa. There are no plans today for Fedasil to take over the operation of reception centres and not the other way around. At the moment it is done well in the other centers run by a private operator, so there is no reason to reverse that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u88	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman's 55026477C and Mr 55026478C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, you are planning a new closed center in the municipality of Steenokkerzeel, where some are already present. This is the third in the municipality. The mayor is publicly complaining about the lack of communication leading up to that file. He was able to receive a message shortly before the press release, but there was no room for real consultation. Of course, it's not the first time it's been like this. A few weeks ago we had a discussion here about the announcement of the opening of a new shelter in Saint-Laureins. Even then, the municipal administration was not able to talk about the way of communication and cooperation. How do you explain the many and repeated signals from various municipalities? Do you not fear that this will undermine local benevolence and support for these measures? Do you really think it's necessary to change your way of working? Are you prepared to enter into consultation with Mrs Verlinden in order to provide additional funding for the police areas in question, as this requires a lot from a local police force? The presence of three centres in one municipality certainly causes a lot of pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u91	Mr Roggeman, all the municipalities in which new closed centres are planned were informed, namely the day before communication via the media. We have always done so, and we will continue to do so, including for open centres. I sometimes read that the mayors involved are surprised when we sat with them a few weeks before that. As for Steenokkerzeel, I had a first meeting with the mayor on 24 November. It was a meeting through Teams, which went well. Questions were raised such as the one about police reinforcement and what the center will look like. We also had a meeting with the mayor of Jabbeke during that period. I read things in the press sometimes when that becomes the fourth open asylum centre. However, there is a fundamental difference between an open centre and an asylum centre, and it is important to explain this well, especially because it is sometimes rather technical. Those meetings did indeed take place. As regards the criteria that determine where a closed centre is best planned, as the main parameters DVZ and the Buildings Control look at the size of the site, its regular form, the fact that there are no or as few local residents as possible, the question whether the site is owned by the government and whether it is already intended for public use. The latter is preferable. For new open reception centres, Fedasil looks primarily at existing buildings, preferably in good condition, with a minimum area of about 2,500 square meters and available in the short term for a rental period of at least one year. We can then think of former boarding houses, residential care centers, service flats, student housing buildings or hospitals. With regard to the question of whether I will look with my colleague in the Interior to see if there can be additional support from the police forces, I will certainly do so. We have to take into account the concerns on the ground. It is good that in Steenokkerzeel we can set up a departure center for 50 people, who we hold there for a very short time in anticipation of their departure to their country of origin. You know the challenges of return, both voluntary and forced return. This fits in with the philosophy that we need capacity. We will certainly have discussions with the mayor to see how best to take into account the concerns or challenges that arise on the territory of Steenokkerzeel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u92	Mr Secretary of State, as such, the establishment of return centres is not questioned by anyone. I haven't heard the mayor make any comments about that either. Everyone knows they have to be there. The question is how the facility is being handled. The feedback I get about these consultations sounds less positive than in your presentation of things. This appeared on several occasions, in different municipalities with mayors of different colors, including yours. The way in which we work thus seems to be improving. You also refer to mail traffic the day before the public announcement. As mayor, I would not be particularly interested in merely saying that such a centre will be opened. I note that there are repeated complaints that you may want to examine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, Cyprus is facing increasing illegal immigration this spring. Many migrants, mainly from Africa, fly from Istanbul or Ankara to the occupied territories in the north of the island, from where they are locked to the south. Since the beginning of this year 5,000 people would have arrived in this way. By comparison, last year there were 13,500 in a whole year. The Cypriot Minister for the Interior therefore called it extremely worrying a few days ago and announced that he would inform the European Commission in detail by letter. Has this issue already been discussed at European level? If so, what were the findings? Has this matter been discussed with the Turkish authorities? If so, what were the findings and what agreements were made? Finally, do you believe that the Turkish authorities are doing enough to combat this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u94	Mr Van Langenhove, I agree that the Ukraine crisis should not distract us from the fact that there are other challenges in the area of asylum and migration, including at the southern external borders. The pressure on asylum per capita is very high in Cyprus and it is indeed asking for European assistance in the growing influx. On 4 March, moreover, I had the opportunity to discuss this personally with Cyprus's Minister for the Interior, who visited my cabinet. I have no contact with the Turkish authorities on this matter. However, I support the question at European level, which is also the right forum for us to discuss. In the first instance, Belgium calls for assistance for the European Agency for Asylum and Frontex. Both need to be strengthened in order to do the work on the ground, to protect borders and to ensure that procedures take place more quickly at the external border, particularly in Cyprus. The two agencies are best placed to coordinate the situation on the ground. They can therefore provide operational support by providing specialists and technical equipment. If the agencies ask for additional support, Belgium will also consider it. We also provide permanent support to Frontex by participating in the permanent corps. This support can be used in consultation with Frontex in Cyprus. My services have recently assisted Cyprus in the identification and return of nationals from Congo in cooperation with Frontex. The Cypriot Minister came to visit me on 4 March to express our thanks for the cooperation on return. Because of the fact that we have good relations with the Congo, we were able to have those people sent back from Cyprus immediately. This also fits in with European philosophy. It would be good if each country could make some extra efforts through the good contacts it has with a particular country. There are perhaps European countries that have good contacts with the home countries of certain nationals who are not always easy to send back here in Belgium. If philosophy were to work in the opposite direction, this might help the European Union to get its return to where it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u95	Mr Secretary of State, I fully agree with that philosophy. I'm sure you'll have to argue in favour of that. You have probably already done so at the European summit with the other Ministers of Migration. That is the way we will have to go if we are to achieve more read mission agreements. As far as contacts with the Turkish authorities are concerned, I learned a while ago that you speak a little Turkish. Perhaps we should take a number of steps there as well. They also have a role to play here. Not only can and must the European Union and Frontex do something, Turkey must also take responsibility here. It seems to me that a signal from the EU to Turkey is needed in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u96	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u97	The possible establishment of an administrative treatment centre for transit migrants is indeed the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior. Of course, my services can provide support to the police. The advantages of such a centre relate to the speed of processing of files and bringing together competent actors in the police, the Foreign Office and the police. We have already discussed this in the Coter working group on transit migration. Cooperation between all actors in the field can always be better promoted. With regard to a processing centre, we must think carefully about what the tasks will be and where such a centre should be installed. It is sometimes suggested to establish a large treatment centre in West Flanders, for example for transit migrants. I would find that a very bad thing, because such a centre becomes a hub for migratory flows. I read on social media what some people think about that. My opinion on this is quite clear. I gave it to the board in Jabbeke, among other things. In Jabbeke there is a closed center. Some of them were hoping to set up a handling centre there as well. My answer to that is no. I do not think that is convenient. It is to be welcomed that the services, the police and the DVZ cooperate better, and we certainly need to see how they can strengthen each other, but I do not think that a transit migrant treatment centre is the best solution. A processing center next to the closed center in Jabbeke is already a no-go for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u98	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I note your negative reaction to the proposal, despite growing support, also in the majority. You are sceptical about a treatment center, but the local police zones have no alternative. How should they deal with large groups which they may identify and take up on their territory? Handling is not possible. There's no capacity for that. The result is that nothing happens and there is no support. If you say no to the proposal, I suggest that you consider an alternative, together with Minister Verlinden.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic752x.u99	You will read all this in the detailed written reply, in which I deal with a number of details. I thought it was important to make it politically clear here how I view handling centres philosophically, especially in the context of the extra-closed centres.
