ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u1	Madam Minister, during the extensive discussion of the dossier surrounding the demonstration of 23 January 2022 in our committee, including with my colleague, Mrs Goethals, you informed us that the intelligence services are in contact with foreign intelligence services in order to be well informed and confirmed that the police knew beforehand that there would be risk groups involved. The presence of left and right extremists was therefore no surprise at all. On 26 January I also questioned the Minister of Justice and his reply was somewhat different. That is why I would like to return to what the intelligence and police services knew exactly before the demonstration. The Security of the State knows about the blackbloc strategy and is working on an answer to it. The OCAD also warned the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security about the resistance and polarisation against the corona rules. Can you tell me what the police knew in advance about the participation of at-risk groups? Which groups were involved? Which intelligence services were consulted in advance and what did they get out of it? Do you confirm the presence of violent left extremists in Belgium, with a concentration in Brussels, phenomenon as described by the State Security? How many demonstrations did they infiltrate? How many times did they form a black bloc and unleash street riots? What services are involved in the Strategy Extremism & Terrorism? Are they being consulted before the demonstrations? What exactly does this strategy mean? How are hybrid threats addressed, specifically in relation to corona? Finally, what policies will the government take to combat the emergence of left-wing and right-wing extremism and polarisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u2	Mr Buysrogge, in advance, it was indeed called on through social media to participate in the Europeans United's corona demonstration of 23 January 2022. These calls were widely shared, both by extreme right-wing and extreme left-wing groups, by football supporters and even hooligans, as well as by other fora of antivaxers and coronamousity. There was information from France, Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland that groups could join the demonstration in Brussels. Your second question on the intelligence services falls within the competence of my fellow Minister of Justice. I will therefore refer to him for the answer. The presence of representatives of violent left extremistism in our country is not new. The phenomenon, which has been known for several years, remains relatively limited in size and is certainly not of the same order of magnitude as a number of other phenomena. This is also reflected in the figures of the individuals who have been followed up as a priority in the common database. There is indeed a certain but not a complete concentration in Brussels. During the demonstration of 23 January 2022, three major groups were responsible for the violence. They were a group of French anarchists, young people from Brussels and so-called casuals, who were soccer supporters. All known extreme right-wing groups and individuals have peacefully argued. There were also a lot of Dutch people present. This will be followed up further by the police forces with the Dutch colleagues to identify the groups present and to assess the threat. The blackbloct tactics, in which protesters dress up in black clothing, make themselves unrecognizable and protect themselves from tear gas, are sometimes used by left extremists to confront the police during a demonstration and to cause atrocities. In Belgium, the use of this tactic to provoke public order seems rather rare in recent years. The partners who have a role in the strategic memorandum on extremism and terrorism are the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the Public Prosecutor's Office, State Security, the General Intelligence and Security Service, the federal and local police, the FPS Foreign Affairs, the FPS Home Affairs and, of course, the National Crisis Centre. In addition, the Financial Information Processing Cell and the FPS Justice are also involved. Finally, the Flemish authorities, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Brussels-Capital Region are also involved in drawing up the strategic note. The structures of the former plan R are consolidated in the strategic note, which demonstrates their importance in the light of a holistic overall approach to radicalisation, which can be shared by all relevant actors in the welfare and security and intelligence sectors. The strategy implies that all forms of radicalisation, extremism and terrorism, both religiously and ideologically inspired, are addressed in a similar way, through the same follow-up structures and from the same strategy. Also new is the importance of the concept of risk management in the context of the fight against extremism and terrorism, primarily by creating as fine a network as possible for actors from different sectors to detect signals of potentially problematic behaviour as early as possible. On a case-by-case basis, a tailor-made path is drawn up for the problematic cases, coupled with individual measures to reduce the identified risks. The local task forces, the local integrated security cells, are and will remain, in the idea of risk management, the multidisciplinary consultation platform par excellence, which can act as a nerve centre for the whole strategy. In order to combat hybrid threats, a distinction should be made between short- and long-term objectives. In the long term, hybrid threats can be guaranteed continuous awareness among the different services through the platform and an interdepartmental consultation will be held to create a consolidated picture of the hybrid threats. Specifically in the context of the corona crisis, the National Crisis Centre, in collaboration with the Belgian intelligence and security services, organised a disinformation monitoring exercise. The experience gained during interdepartmental cooperation should be further embedded in both the Task Force Information Operations and the StratCom Working Group in the Strategy TER in order to be able to work with the various partners in a structural way on the subject. The Strategy TER is the co-operation mechanism at federal, sub-state and local level to tackle extremism. This is done proactively, but also preventively and repressively, and is certainly aimed at social reintegration. This approach is applied to all forms of extremism, including left and right extremes. The focus in addressing the issue has shifted from a narrow approach to a broader approach focusing on prevention violent extremism and countering violent extremism. Not least in terms of prevention and aftercare, the broad social field, especially the social prevention actors, is a crucial partner in this. That is what the multidisciplinary approach stands for, and we will continue to do so in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u3	Madam Secretary, I am pleased with your full answer. You yourself say that the phenomenon of extreme left, polarisation and infiltrating demonstrations is not a large-scale phenomenon, but that does not mean that we should sweep it under the mat. It was also a focus in the annual report on State Security. It is a good thing that the phenomenon of interdisciplinary monitoring is closely monitored. In that sense, it was staggering to me that, when you were questioned about this on 26 January, Minister Van Quickenborne, whom I questioned at the same time in the Justice Commission, said: "The security services had no prior information on organized Black Bloc infiltration of extreme links during the 23 January event." You say that there were indications of infiltration and that this was called for, so I find the answer from the Minister of Justice disturbing. I would therefore like to call on you, Madam Secretary, to get your message right with your colleague. We are simply saying that Vivaldi sometimes has some noise on the message that is being put forward, but this is an important issue that needs to be addressed seriously. In that sense, I support your speech rather than that of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u4	Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you in April 2021 about the problem of transmigration in our country. I had thus had the opportunity to refer to the particular and exemplary case of the camp of transmigrants established on the slopes of the E40 motorway at the height of Fexhe-le-Haut-Clocher, a commune next to mine. You then told me that the Secretary of State in charge of Asylum and Migration had the hand with regard to the management of the reception of these people in transmigration. On the other hand, you also indicated that you were ready to work with the Walloon Region to take accompanying measures in the context of this problem. I had the opportunity to re-examine last week Secretary of State Mahdi, who is referring me to you, especially with regard to police actions. Today, the situation has deteriorated further. It appears that prostitution networks use the state of weakness and vulnerability of these people in order to obtain profits that are certainly illegal. The problem is therefore wider than the transmigration and indecent conditions in which these people live. At the regional level, initiatives are being taken. The Walloon Regional Minister indicated that the operators of the motorway system were taking measures to secure the site. Minister, since my last inquiry, what concrete responses have been put in place at the federal level to control this transmigration phenomenon? What actions are being taken by law enforcement agencies on the ground to address this issue? The Secretary of State spoke of a close collaboration between your services and yours. How does this collaboration materialize?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u5	Mr Goffin, along with other European countries concerned with the problem (the Netherlands, France and Germany), there have been converging observations that these transmigrants are victims of criminal groups organised at international level, particularly dangerous and with increasingly sophisticated means. The recent meetings in Val Duchesse and Calais, following the unacceptable tragedy you know, have led the various countries as well as the European agencies Frontex and Europol to articulate actions aimed at breaking the business model of these groups. The Federal Police has articulated an action plan for the benefit of the integrated police, which is intended to form part of this necessary European response. Multiple and almost weekly meetings are held at the highest level between the police officers of the aforementioned countries, including the European agencies, in order to provide answers to this serious problem which, because of its character, namely international organised crime, will not find a solution at Belgian level alone. These include concerted and coordinated international border control actions based on criminal intelligence for a real added value in the use of a thermal camera with artificial intelligence on the Belgian coast, surveillance at maritime borders with the help of a Frontex aircraft, participation in the operational intelligence unit with various countries, extensive cooperation with customs and Great Britain at the port of Zeebrugge and international judicial police actions targeting these specific criminal groups. Because of the judicial nature, I can elaborate further on this last aspect. It is at the heart of the response mechanism that all countries concerned would like to provide. A meeting of the national police chiefs of the countries concerned resulted in a consensus on the operational approach. The methodology consists of carrying out coordinated actions with different countries. On Wednesday 9 February, at 2 p.m., a coordination meeting was held with the North of France to discuss cross-border crime issues including transmigration. This meeting is held on a regular basis according to an improved comitology. For example, border control actions are carried out on an ongoing basis with close cooperation between the Belgian and French services. They have led to a large number of checks and interceptions of smugglers and several elements have been agreed to positively impact the fight against transmigration with, inter alia, a Franco-Belgian group of information and exchange of good practices on the new technological orientations that is about to emerge; the setting up of the comitology project on police and customs cooperation between France and Belgium. I confirm that I have close contacts with the Secretary of State, including on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u6	Minister, your answers were expected. This is frustrating because the problem of migration is divided into three categories for which we do not find a concrete answer. The first of these is the known asylum seekers. The second category consists of migrants who have been ordered to leave the territory. Your police officers regularly confirm that these orders to leave the territory are rarely respected. The third category is persons transiting through Belgium. Transmigration is a reality because if you want to go from point B to point A (and vice versa), a country like ours, in the heart of Europe, must expect people to transit through its national territory. And today, in a country like ours, we're acting as if we didn't see the reality of people sleeping behind slopes, when we've just spent terrible storm days. I didn't mean to hide my great frustration. I hope that the government will also be able to address this very concrete issue. Today, on whom does this concrete problem fall? On the municipalities, and also on the citizens, who do not understand. I really want to see a real debate in the government so that we can finally look at this reality. Not wanting to see her is also a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u7	Madam Minister, in June 2021 the Flemish government identified sites that might be contaminated by PFAS. These are chemicals produced by humans but harmful to the environment and health. Many areas with fire stations or training sites were identified as a possible risk area, because fire-fighting foams contain fluoricants similar to the anti-stick layer of Tefalpanen. The production of these substances, but also their degradation in the environment, creates harmful residual products. The main pollutants in the fire protection industry are PFOS and PFOA. The collective name for all these types of substances is PFAS. Foam fluids, based on PFOS, are no longer produced since 2002 and in the years 2007-2011 all our well-known installations in the Netherlands and Belgium in which this type of foam concentrate was used were carefully cleaned. From June 2011, a total ban on PFOS will apply in Europe. However, research by OVAM of soil samples shows that a lot of firefighters sites are contaminated. This also affects the people who live in the area. Municipal authorities must now inform people about the use of groundwater that may be harmful. Madam Secretary, do you have a look at the number of fire department sites that OVAM investigated on behalf of the Flemish Government? Have all these tests been carried out yet? How many firefighters' sites turn out to be contaminated? Foam fluids based on PFOS are banned in Europe. Since when did the fire department stop using these? Or has that been phased out in spread order? In a report on fire-fighting foam published by OVAM on 15 July 2020, it was recommended that training foam should always be used in exercises and that in interventions fire-extinguishing foam should only be used when it is necessary and water is not an alternative. Does this mean that we are still using these PFAS-containing fire-fighting foams? Does this happen often? Is that still registered? In Flanders, this is very topical, but do you also know what is going on in Brussels and Wallonia? Or has there been no investigation into this? Can you also pursue a policy in this area as the guardian of the fire department, or is it for the regional authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u8	Mr Moyaers, in June 2021 there was a consultation between my cabinet and OVAM in response to my question to coordinate certain actions concerning the identification of risk sites. Since then, there has been no new information on the outcome of any soil studies. This concerns the exercise of the powers of the regional government, which previously involved local authorities as owners of the land in question. Nevertheless, I have also seen it as my task to inform the relief zones and firefighters about this potential problem. On 21 June, for example, I sent a letter to all aid zones and firefighters' schools, reminding them of the current regulations on the use of fluoric foam. The use of PFOS has been prohibited since 2011. Of course, the aid zones must also comply with that ban. I do not have any information available on using PFOS for 2011. Although the sale had already stopped on 27 December 2006. Depending on the consumption or the stocks that were still available, one corps may have stopped earlier than the other. In any case, assisted areas and fire zones are required to use fluoro-free exercise foam in exercises. Fire extinguishing foam is also used without PFOS. Only large fuel fires require the use of PFOS fire-fighting foam today in the absence of equivalent alternatives, but the necessary studies are being carried out for the future. This does not contain the prohibited PFOS, but also other substances from that larger PFAS group. It is the only effective solution at the moment to combat such fires properly, but as I said, we are looking at how we can proceed differently for the future. I cannot answer your question regarding the state of affairs in the other regions. You will have to address the regions concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u9	Madam Secretary, I speak from a certain concern and with a dose of ignorance above all. Today, we have insufficient knowledge of the impact of PFAS on humans and the environment. I myself was confronted three weeks ago with discovering PFAS in the groundwater in the bottom of the barracks in my own city. OVAM, on behalf of the Flemish government, is primarily investigating the fire stations, while many more sites have been identified. I'm holding my heart for it. Immediately we had to inform people within the 500 meter perimeter of the no regret measures to be taken as announced in Flanders. This means that within the vast majority of the perimeter there is a ban on the use of groundwater to irrigate, for example, the vegetable garden or to cook with it. It must certainly not be used as drinking water. The foam product AF22 used by firefighters like ours is free of PFOS and PFOA, but as you said, it is not completely free of PFAS. The products fully meet today's standard and the amount of PFAS is significantly lower than the allowed limit. My fire commander states that he has always followed the law and since 2013 has always participated in joint procurement of foam-forming extinguishing agent (SVM), which complies with the regulations and may be used until 2025. At the same time, there is ignorance and people are afraid to use the foam-forming extinguishing agent anymore. What happens, for example, in a fire at a workshop adjacent to a plantation? What happens to the 500 yards around there? What should the fire commander decide at such a time? Should he just burn down the workshop? What about the development of smoke and polluted water? The fire department does not yet know how to use it. I think it is necessary to provide support from the federal government for the issues sometimes faced by relief zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u10	Madam Minister, unfortunately my question has been prompted by yet another incident of violence against aid workers. After the emergency services were called up for a banal café in the rural village of Kuurne known to me in West Flanders, the dolls went dancing when the woman was not allowed to get in the ambulance and the man turned against the aid worker, with all the consequences. Of course the couple was arrested and interrogated, but also made available after questioning. The Fluvia relief zone is a bourgeois party. I hope you will give clear answers to my questions about the increasing number of cases of aggression, not only against the police, but also against aid workers, which is perhaps even worse. Madam Secretary, do you agree that there is an urgent need for stricter sanctions in the case of violence against aid workers or police officers? According to a procedure, aid workers only go to interventions together with a police team at night. Why wasn't that the case in Kuurne? Do you have any further information on the circumstances, of course initially about the condition of the injured aid worker? My main question is what measures are you taking in relation to high-risk nocturnal interventions and how will you tackle violence against aid workers more strictly? My party is in favour of legalising the use of pepper spray so that aid workers can protect themselves relatively safely from physical violence. Will you take a legal initiative or will you support a parliamentary initiative on this matter? Do you intend to allow aid workers, if they so wish, to provide pepper spray as defensive protection during their duty hours? What legal adjustments are needed for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u11	Mr Depoostere, like you, I would like to stress that I found this incident very regrettable. All too often, aid workers and people in primary care are the victims of aggression and violence. So I think it is also important that we continue to stress the need for strict action against violence against aid workers and police officers. As a result of this incident, the paramedics have to go to the hospital for care. Within the zone, the Fire Stress Team was called upon to support the well-being of the two ambulances and to follow them further. I share the view that severe penalties are necessary and that a lick-on policy should be pursued. Although this is not my competence, but that of the Minister of Justice, I support his intention to punish such violence more severely. The Criminal Code already provides for an increase in penalties for certain crimes committed against firefighters and ambulances. As far as the question of pepper spray is concerned, I would like to point out that the arms bill, which also falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice, regulates arms procurement by citizens. I am not in favour of general equipment for citizens with pepper spray or other defence weapons because, in a democratic rule of law, the possession of weapons by citizens is rightly prohibited, except for the specific legitimate grounds mentioned, so-called legal motives. After all, we do not want to get into American situations. Furthermore, possession of weapons can lead to a false sense of security. The legalisation of the purchase and possession of pepper spray for individuals could lead to an escalation of violence and violent bombers could provide themselves with pepper spray to commit crimes or, worse still, use heavier weapons because they know that their target might use pepper spray. So I am not convinced that legalising pepper spray would really make our society safer. This does not mean that we do not continue to work to improve the safety of the aid workers. For example, last year I asked the aid zones to develop, in cooperation with their prevention service, a policy and roadmaps for their own area of dealing with violence against staff. In addition, fire and ambulance staff can also follow two recently started training courses in the fire schools, in particular 'Result-oriented communication with difficult citizens and bystanders during interventions on the ground' and 'First Responger Anti-agression Training'. In these training courses, staff shall learn the necessary skills to adopt an appropriate attitude and apply the security measures when faced with verbal and/or physical violence. Of course, we are trying to provide the aid workers with the necessary training, but that does not mean that we accept the situation and that this must be the only answer. On the other hand, it is not wrong to offer the necessary training so that these people can carry out their duties as well equipped and armed as possible. Finally, my administration is working with the representatives of the fire department on a camera law, which will allow fire and ambulance personnel to wear a mobile camera during interventions. By using such a camera, perpetrators of violence will be deterred and those responsible for these acts will also be more easily identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You have partly guessed my thoughts, but I am not opposed to additional training or to roadmaps drawn up to deal with aggression. It's not about that. I am, of course, not opposed to the Minister of Justice's plans to increase the penalties for violence against aid workers and police officers. However, if these penalties are increased in the Criminal Code, they must also be implemented. However, this implementation is lacking. Those penalties can be made much heavier, so to speak, but if they are not carried out, this increase will remain an empty box. Finally, Madam Minister, on the use of pepper spray is the beauty of democracy that we may differ. You have your opinion on that, I have mine. I can hear signals anyway. You should put your ear to listen to young girls. I have a 19-year-old daughter. She would feel much safer if it were possible to have a pepper spray in her pocket these days. By the way, many young girls circumvent the ban by, for example, putting hairspray in their purse, which is apparently equally effective. Luckily, I haven't been able to see that in person. Pepperspray, in my opinion, will not lead to a more violent society, especially a sense of safety will arise among the people who need it, especially in an additional order for the aid workers themselves. I also hear from them the signs that they would be served by such equipment. The Flemish Interest has in any case submitted a legislative proposal for discussion in the Justice Committee. I hope, of course, that a large majority will approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u13	Two weeks ago it was announced that a column of trucks and other vehicles from different countries would leave for Brussels to protest against the corona measures on Monday 14 February. The activists who wanted to occupy the streets of the European capital called themselves the convoy of freedom, but of course they stand for anything but freedom. After consulting the mayor of Brussels and the Prime Minister of Brussels, you banned those protest convoys. In order to maintain the ban, you have announced targeted controls and controls at the borders and have been called not to come by car to the capital. You made the right decision because, fortunately, this has limited the nuisance that has been announced. The police also successfully carried out filter blocks, in which cars were derived from the highway to parking C of the Heizel. There people could then express their grievances without causing any inconvenience in the city centre. It was not the first time that there were protests against corona measures in Brussels. When the Liberation Convoys were announced, there was rightly a great deal of concern for possible damage and also for the safety of security personnel and police officers. You have chosen to take preventive action and take various measures. How did it go with the ministers of neighbouring countries? What was the outcome of the measures taken? Were any persons detained during the targeted checks and border controls? If so, do you have any numbers of them? What lessons can we draw from these new forms of protest? What measures have you taken to ensure the security of law and order services? Do you expect any more action from the Liberty Convoys?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u14	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will not go back to the context that has been mentioned by my colleague, Mrs Platteau. Of course, we are ardent defenders of freedom demonstrating on the public road. It is a fundamental right. But our Constitution also makes it possible, for reasons of tranquillity and public security, to make its exercise subject to authorization, as is the case in all the cities and communes of the Kingdom. In this context, I would like to join Mrs Platteau in saying that preventive measures of protection and security should be taken that this type of organisation justified so much the fears were great to have overflows with infringements of the freedom to be, to circulate, attacks on our institutions as well as on Brussels and Brussels. Madam Minister, you have coordinated with the mayor of the city of Brussels and the Brussels Minister-President. Could you give me an overview of the state of federal coordination, of the human and material resources put in place in the context of this event, which was not finally authorised but which required the establishment of preventive means, as well as your analysis of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course Article 26 of the Constitution and Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights guarantee the right to argue. Legislation only allows a limitation of that right in a very small number of exceptional cases. For example, a mayor responsible for maintaining public policy may prohibit a demonstration on his or her territory if he or she considers that public policy may be compromised. It is therefore primarily up to the mayor to decide whether or not a manifestation can take place. For the territory of Brussels Capital, Article 41 of the Common General Police Regulation applies to the 19 Brussels municipalities. That Regulation provides that, subject to authorisation by the competent authority, it is prohibited to organise, encourage or participate in public space training, demonstrations, riots or parades which may interfere with vehicle traffic, and to hinder, organise, encourage, or participate in public space users. The ban in Brussels was not a prohibition on arguments; it was a temporary and clearly defined restriction on the way in which one can argue, namely with motor vehicles. As always, the federal police have exchanged information intensively with the foreign police services of France, Germany and the Netherlands through the usual channels. For example, the French police services provided updates on the number of vehicles and convoys that would be ready to come to Brussels. The French police even handed out flyers from the Belgian federal police in the parkings, with information about the Belgian rules. I myself had contact with the French Minister on the occasion of that demonstration. In the end, it turned out that there was only a limited willingness to come to Brussels and to manifest in this way. In Paris, too, there was not the initially expected rise of the demonstrators. The combination of clear communication in the media and the presence of police has contributed to a low willingness to act. There was already a good preparation, also in view of the other events that took place in Brussels last week and which deserved a great deal of attention from our police services. The situation has always been monitored. That has prevented us from being surprised. The coordination and organisation was carried out by the Brussels Police Capital-Elsene, of course in close consultation with the administrative and judicial authorities at various levels, who were very closely involved in the manifestation in the command centres. In turn, the National Crisis Centre organized various coordination meetings in preparation, with all the relevant departments and departments, including Defence, because we thought that if there were large lorries, we would need special resources to take them away. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the services for their efforts. The unforeseen provision can only succeed if there is cooperation, as shown here. The Belgian police services were therefore well prepared for the different scenarios. They have taken measures to avoid obstructions and blockades in the capital. At least they had enough police forces standing by. In addition, a police decision was proclaimed at the level of the Brussels-Capital Region by the governor of Flemish Brabant, which prohibited demonstrations with motorised vehicles. Other mayors like those in Ghent had also issued a similar ban. There was then also surveillance at the borders and awareness-raising was used. The Belgian police received help from the French services on the French side of the border. Only filter blocks were erected on the Ring around Brussels. No major intervention by the federal police was necessary on the main routes of invasion. No arrests were made there. In the case of checks in the Brussels region, a number of people were arrested preventively. The result of the measures taken, namely the use of information exchange, monitoring in depth to detect and guide convoys, clear communication of the tolerance limits and referral to parking C, where a static demonstration was tolerated, can therefore be considered positive. On 13 February, the Federal Police deployed 250 officers, with an additional 160 for the benefit of the Brussels Police Service. In addition, on the same day, it also deployed seven autotopists, five heavy armoured vehicles and one helicopter. The following day, it assigned 641 staff members to the mission, with an additional 200 for the benefit of the Brussels police services. In addition, on the same day, it deployed nine autotopists, five heavy armoured vehicles and two helicopters. In addition, it had several heavy towing vehicles from the Defence, as I have just indicated. The trend of recent years, a new way of protesting, was reaffirmed in that demonstration. This new way of arguing means that there is no clear point of contact, which poses major challenges for the services concerned, as it is particularly difficult to estimate how many demonstrators will participate. In view of references to, among others, Canada, it was necessary to be vigilant and, above all, well prepared. This demonstration also revealed that social media channels were the main or most important way of gathering information on the possible emergence of demonstrators. We cannot, of course, say whether there will be any further action by such freedom convoys, since no application has been made so far by any organizer. At the moment there seems to be no indications, but it goes without saying that, as always, we are watching and preparing ourselves. Where appropriate, we shall take the appropriate measures, in line with the assessment of a particular event.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed reply and for explaining once again what the difference is with the right to argue, for which there are rules and why a demonstration can also be prohibited. I would also like to thank all the services for their cooperation. I think everyone is relieved about the fact that our capital was not blocked, so cooperation and coordination really paid off. You also referred to communication with citizens, which I think is very good. Especially in view of the new way of arguing, there is a need for clear public communication about whether or not to allow a demonstration and how to argue. Cooperation with the police from neighbouring countries has also gone very well. If it's okay, that can certainly be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u18	Madam Secretary, I think it's a little different. In fact, I believe that this manifestation, that freedom convoy, by the media and by some who may see any political benefit in it, was blown up when it turned out to be nothing at all. There was more traffic nuisance caused by the police blockades than by the convoy, which was actually not there. With social media channels it is always very careful. The more people from their lazy seats say that they will participate, the less there are effectively present. Its relevance has been proven. Madam Secretary, I know dancing on a limp cord stays. The right to arguments must indeed be safeguarded, but public order must also be preserved. I do think that this should be dealt with in a very proportionate way. If measures are not announced to enable certain forms of argument to be made, then this must be proportionate. It seems to me that this was not the case on 14 February. The measures seem to me to have been disproportionate. It shouldn't happen at random either. I find it very strange that the mayor of Ghent suddenly announced the same measures as the Brussels Region. That seemed to me to be more of a political statement than decisive action. If a balance is struck between the right to intervene and the right to preserve public order, then the right to intervene must always be in favour of the right to intervene, unless there are clear indications that there will be destruction or violence. In this respect, therefore, I disagree with the previous speaker and with you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u19	Mr President, no doubt you will also be of a different opinion from mine. Indeed, I welcome the responsibility that has been taken. This was the decision that had to be taken in this context to preserve Brussels, to preserve Brussels and Brussels, as I said earlier. Of course, I regret that we are currently forced to deploy so much energy, as many human resources, as many financial means, to preserve each and every one of us. But I believe that, unfortunately, there are strong signals that sometimes force us to take on our responsibilities, and do so to avoid what? To avoid incidents, to avoid having to punish, to avoid the use of force, to prevent physical, moral or institutional victims of aggression, violence and vandalism. In this case, Madam Minister, I welcome your speech, and that of the mayor of Brussels and the Brussels Minister-President. It was an excellent coordination. That was what needed to be done. If you hadn't done it and it didn't go well, you'd have been pointed at. You have taken your responsibilities and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u20	Minister, recent developments have shown alarming findings with respect to the use of drugs and alcohol while driving: 30% of young people are driving under influence, twice as many as last year. These figures are not insignificant, driving under influence is the cause of a considerable number of road accidents each year. Minister, how many accidents have been caused as a result of driving under influence over the last year across the country? Drug use seems to be affecting generations more and more at an early stage. Is it not possible to organise an upstream inspection, even before the driver's licence is issued? The situation in our neighbours is just as worrying. Are you interested in what is being done?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u21	Mrs Jadin, the regulation of the rules governing the issue of a driving licence falls within the competence of the Minister in charge of Mobility. During the year 2021, the police services found 1,204 road accidents – 484 of which resulted in bodily injuries – in which one or more of the parties involved appeared to be under the influence of narcotics. The federal police are regularly contacted by foreign police services who wish to learn about the procedure followed in our country. Our country is, in a way, taking the lead in the detection of drugs at the wheel. Manufacturers of current detection instruments, such as salivary tests and salivary collectors, are constantly concerned with improving the quality of their products. This is necessary because the market is limited in time, which gives the Department of Justice, which manages the purchase and distribution, the possibility of making available more efficient detection equipment. As far as I know, narcotics, unlike alcohol, cannot be detected in expired cellular air. The method of detection in saliva is determined by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. With regard to the manner in which the driving licence is issued, I will question the Minister for Mobility. You confirm this alarming finding and the practical problems with the detection of certain narcotics. In view of the increase and severity of these incidents, consideration should be given to how to carry out more effective controls to detect drugs while driving.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u23	Mr President, first of all I would like to draw attention to the wide range of subjects that are dealt with here in committee, from PFAS to freedom caravans and hairspray, and I would like to touch on another subject. Madam Minister, on the one hand, my question is based on the conviction of three persons by the Brussels court of three persons with severe penalties for imports of parts of wild species. Among other things, it was crocodile meat and boa-constrictor skin. I'm pleased with the signal given by the court. On the other hand, a year ago, the Court adopted a resolution aimed at stepping up the fight against the illegal trade in wild animal meat. The most important question is a national action plan involving you and a number of services, particularly customs. Coordination is one thing, staff, technical resources, support and training is another; there is also something like the rather simple request to allow inspectors at airports more easily. What progress has been made with the implementation of the resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u24	Mr Verduyckt, there are many areas of competence, including home affairs, involved in regulating the market for wild animal meat in order to put an end to illegal trade. The aim must indeed be to ensure the best possible coordination of efforts in this area. The FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, in particular the CITES service, is ultimately responsible for the problem. The Federal Environmental Inspection of that FOD also has a special competence. In addition, the police are also involved, because the Federal Unit Public Health and Environmental Crime consults CITES with a view to ensuring good cooperation. In this context, I would also like to highlight the importance of customs services in the problem. Many goods pass through airports and sometimes illegal wildlife meat. If the aviation police are called upon to provide support for airport control actions on that particular matter, it is clear that the aviation police will cooperate and assist the relevant control services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u25	Madam Minister, there is a danger that many services are involved in the problem: one can easily slip through the loopholes of the network. We have to note that a lot of wild animal meat is imported into our country via Zaventem, just as a lot of tropical wood enters our country through the port of Antwerp. Our country is a turning point for illegal trade of wild animal meat throughout Europe. The fight against this illegal trade remains extremely important for two reasons. Firstly, when parts of endangered animals enter our country, this is not a good thing for biodiversity. Secondly, there are the consequences for our public health. If the corona crisis should have taught us one thing, it is that we should be particularly careful with these matters. It's too bad that this business is resurrected. I can only insist that you pay the necessary attention to the problem and use all possible means to combat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u26	Mr. Demon is absent. His question No. 55025326C is postponed. Question No 24, by Mr De Gucht (H-l Mr Rigot, Mr 55025446C by Mrs Leoni and Mr 55025492C, Mr 55025493C, Mr 55025494C and Mr 55025545C by Mrs Chanson were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u27	Minister, it has recently become apparent that the end date of the "guarantee manufacturer" of bulletproof vests, equipping some 800 bikers of our police, was outdated. The issue of the provision of operational and functional equipment is crucial not only in terms of the efficiency of the work of our law enforcement agencies, but also, of course, in terms of their safety. In this regard, several police unions have issued negative opinions regarding the obsolescence and lack of equipment in our police services. Let me ask you the following questions, minister. Could you inform us of the rules in force regarding the status and current quality of the equipment available to our police officers, of which the bulletproof vests are part? As a result of the remarks made by the unions, what are your intentions to improve the supply of equipment and equipment to our police? Finally, in view of your ambition to recruit 1,600 new staff per year, what measures are being taken or will be taken to provide their essential equipment for their safety in the performance of their duties?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u28	Mr Senesael, the specific police equipment, including the bulletproof vests made available to our police officers, is controlled by the integrated police. For the discreet bulletproof vest, it is certified by the CAST (Centre for Applied Sciences and Technology) standard. The rest of the equipment meets different standards applicable at national or EU level. In addition, at integrated police, any standard follows a path of validation by the Uniform Commission, the Steering Committee, the Integrated Police Coordination Committee, the Negotiating Committee and the opinion of the Internal Directorate of Prevention and Protection at Work. Second, one of the main objectives of the federal police is to ensure that our operations are properly equipped. The continuous improvement of the supply of equipment and equipment is therefore a priority for the police. For this reason, an optimal tool for monitoring stocks and markets has been developed. It goes hand in hand with the recurrent calculation of the needs of equipment and equipment according to the new incorporations of aspirants within the federal police - the calculation taking up the number of aspirants, crossed with a curve of Gauss. In this way, we can best rely on the reality of the field and thus place the appropriate equipment orders for these new operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer; with two satisfactions. The first is that you give priority to police equipment, and primarily to bulletproof vests. Thank you. The second satisfaction is that the reality of the field is really taken into account so that there is a better match between demand and supply. Nevertheless, I remain cautious about the negative comments and opinions that had been expressed by the unions. I will return to them for clarification and further information on their reasons for dissatisfaction with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u30	Mr. Chair, Minister, the CGSP Police Union recently found that the reorganization of the Railway Police Services (CPS) did not meet the needs of personnel in the field. The latest figures indicate that only 494 of the 591 positions in the SSC are currently occupied. The new division of the field would make the rapid and coordinated intervention of our law enforcement agencies on the network more complex by eliminating the police presence at many stations in our country. At the same time, the figures for violence against public transport personnel are up sharply, with an average of 13 physical or verbal attacks per day, increasing the latter by 23% in 2021 compared to the previous year. The safety of citizens and workers in our transportation networks must be given a greater place within our police in relation to these elements. Minister, what are your intentions with respect to the approximately 100 positions in the SSC? What can you tell us about the problem raised with the new division of railway police areas and the ability of the railway police to intervene in stations where it is no longer potentially present? Are there any on-the-ground measures in progress, in collaboration with local authorities and public transit companies, to counter the increase in violence against public transport personnel in the SPC organization?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u31	Mr President, Mr Seneseal, the Directorate of Railway Police (SPC) has been a priority in terms of recruitment for three years now. These recruitment efforts will continue with the aim of reaching the full workforce of course. Each province has an intervention team to deal with all urgent actions on the SPC's priority field of action. The latter continues to be competent in trains, tracks and wharfs for supra-local phenomena with regard to the ferreted field of action. This cooperation is generally carried out throughout the territory between the Federal Police and the local police, in accordance with the requirements of article 16 quater of the Law on the Police Function. A specific collaboration is organised between the two levels of police in order to solve the security problems in the vicinity of all the stations and not just those, as in the past, where the SPC was housed. The aim is to implement in partnership and on the basis of the analysis of emerging criminal phenomena and security problems, joint actions, each on its priority area of action. The preferred partners are always involved in these collaborations and actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u32	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her response. I am pleased to hear that railway management remains a priority for recruitment. It was essential that the 100 posts to be filled should be filled as soon as possible in the light of the incidents of violence that had been recalled. I confirm it: 24 per day on average! It's huge for our railroads. Secondly, it is essential to recall that the railway police cannot be defeated at the expense of local police, whose work cannot be overburdened further. I assume that you are well aware of this, and even if you confirm to me that cooperation between federal and local police is a priority, there can be no centralization of this responsibility within the local police force, since it is primarily the responsibility of the SSC. On the other hand, it is true that it is not only the stations where the SPC is installed that have priority in terms of safety, but also those in the whole country. It is a good thing that special attention is devoted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u33	Minister, automatic indexing of staff salaries in the face of inflation in our country is a social step that we cherish and that clearly protects the purchasing power of our citizens. Several indexes are planned this year and pose serious questions for local finances and especially for our police areas, of which 80 per cent of the expenditure is allocated to the salaries of their staff. Minister, is there a mechanism in place for police areas to help them meet – in whole or in part – the costs of automatic indexing advanced by the Planning Office? Will federal contributions to municipalities be indexed in the same way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u34	Mr. Senesael, the amounts allocated for the basic federal endowment are calculated at the beginning of the theoretical amounts of the basic federal grant that were defined for each policy area in 2002. In order to determine the amount allocated to each policy area for 2022, the amounts constituting the basic federal allocation stricto sensu are initially adapted to the actual evolution of the health index, which is calculated on the last annual basis available at the time of the preparation of the general expenditure budget, in this case December 2020. The amounts thus updated to the real evolution of the health index are then increased by the projected growth rates respectively for the increase of the health index from 2020 to 2021 and from 2021 to 2022 by the Plan Office to obtain the provisional amounts granted for the year 2022. The forecast of changes in the definition of the provisional amounts of the basic federal staffing will then be confronted with the actual evolution of the health index agreed in December 2022 in order to determine definitively the amounts of the federal staffing on which the police areas will be able to count in 2022. The setting of the annual amount of the basic federal allocation therefore has a mechanism of indexation which is in line with the evolution of the health index, which is used, among other things, for the calculation of wage indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u35	Minister, thank you for your clear and precise explanations. However, between the time the estimate of the amount of the federal endowment can be entered in the budget of the police areas and the time when the amount decided for 2002 is actually received, the police areas will have to serve as a banker in order to advance the money needed to pay the salaries. I think that there is something to be considered in order to improve this situation, especially since an increase of 6% is expected for 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u36	Question No 55025446C by Mrs Leoni is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, a few days ago, I asked your colleague in charge of Social Affairs about the plan to retain ENGIE staff in nuclear power plants. Among the measures proposed by the operator, there is one which has caught my full attention: the compensation equivalent to a year's pay for CDI workers who would agree to resign before 30 September 2026, which some trade unionists do not fail to describe as "prime to resignation". Minister, when you know how much the management of a nuclear power plant requires very high-level know-how, do you not think that encouraging voluntary departure is a risky practice in maintaining procedures within power plants? In the event that these incentives and the announced end of nuclear power would motivate too many employees to leave the company, what support could the federal government offer to ensure that the continuity of operation of the plants is guaranteed to the end, with the safety and security required by this type of activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u38	Mr President, Mr Rigot, for the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), it is imperative and essential that the safety and security of the facilities remain guaranteed both during the operation and during the post-operational phase and the dismantling of our nuclear power plants. As such, the AFCN is, of course, advocating that the expertise of the current operator's personnel be maintained as far as possible. The operator's retention plan is intended to help maintain and safeguard this expertise. To date, the operation of reactors is conditioned in particular by specifications which incorporate the minimum requirements for the qualification and availability of personnel. These requirements shall remain valid until the reactor is shut down and until the safety authority accepts a justified request from the operator to amend those specifications. In concrete terms, prior to the shutdown of the reactor, the operator must submit a notice of cessation of activity, including details of the number of personnel required in order to ensure the safe maintenance of the plant. Depending on the steps and the reduction of risk, personnel requirements for maintaining safety can be adapted. The AFCN does not yet have the information on the planning and evolution of staff, but will evaluate in detail the notice of termination which is planned a few months before the final closure. Your questions about incentives related to socio-economic aspects, they are not within the purview of the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. I obviously agree with you on the need to ensure safety both until the end of the operation of the nuclear reactors and in the next phase, namely the decommissioning phase. I will also pay close attention to the issue of permanent control of ENGIE and to the question of ENGIE's obligations to ensure security through, inter alia, human resources. I am relieved to note that everything has been done on the side of your services to guarantee and control this good functioning for the safety of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Langenhove's 55025529C lapses as he is not present. Mr D'Amico may be joining us at the end of the sitting. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Chanson's 55025545C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, on February 16, 2022, the Mons Court of First Instance issued an order for interim relief which allowed the workers' requests and, until a final decision was made by the Council of State, ordered the provisional exclusion of the application of the Council's deliberation of November 24, 2021, which fixed a single schedule for custody services 12/24/12/48, ordered the provisional exclusion of the application of the various ministerial orders and the order of suspension and authorized the emergency zone to propose to members of its operational staff the choice between the 12 or 24 hour regimes. Minister, as a result of this judgment, what are you going to do? Can you tell me if the government wishes to appeal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u42	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, as you say, this would be an action for interim relief brought by firefighters against the emergency zone of which you are the President. The Belgian State was not a party to the proceedings and, if an appeal was filed, it can therefore only be made by your emergency zone. Last night, through your services, my services obtained a copy of this interim order. It is still under scrutiny by my services. However, I can already point out that the order made in interim order sets up a provisional situation pending the judgment of the Council of State. In these circumstances, we therefore await the ruling of the highest administrative court on this issue. You are aware that the Council of State must rule on the appeal brought by your zone against the guardianship order made by me. As regards the working group to which you refer, it will meet in the coming weeks to finalize and adopt its conclusions, which will be forwarded to me in the form of an opinion. It goes without saying that I cannot anticipate the content of this opinion at present, but I will certainly follow it up, also here in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u43	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I can tell you that the decision of the Council of State which will arrive at a given moment is not expected right away. We know very well that it sometimes takes two to three years to reach the decision of the Council of State, and I clearly invite you to take initiatives to anticipate this decision of the Council of State. For example, if the working group, which is busy finding a solution to the 24-hour figure, proposed allowing all firefighters in the country to work in 24-hour shifts, then you could take the initiative to leave this freedom to all areas. It is clear that the Hainaut Centre area would abandon its recourse to the Council of State, which would make things easier for you, for the Home SPF and for all the firefighters in the country. That's a proposal I'm already making.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u44	Mr. President, Minister, storm Eunice has swept our country away, and its management raises a number of questions. Commuters were blocked following the cancellation of trains at the last minute. In Picardy Wallonia alone, more than 600 firefighting operations took place. In East Flanders, 10,000 rescue calls were made on Friday and Saturday. We heard on RTL this Sunday that the overcrowded firefighters had to sort out their interventions. Minister, has BE-Alert been activated? How many relief interventions have taken place throughout the country? Were there enough emergency services to deal with this storm? Can you track the course of events and decisions made before, during and after the storm? What preventive measures have been taken? Have the army and civil protection been mobilized? How do you explain, when the storm was scheduled for at least last Thursday, that a number of services appear to have responded in the last minute?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u45	Mr. President, Madam Minister, in recent days a large part of the country has been hit by exceptional storms and weather with varying intensities, resulting in human loss, many injuries and many damage. The Kingdom emergency services and numbers received thousands of calls and the firefighters carried out thousands of interventions. If, as always, our relief services have been on the bridge, it must be noted that in the field there is a lack of coordination in the action of the public authorities. In my capacity as mayor, I had to note that many citizens tried to reach 1722 without success or that the information obtained was then difficult to dispatched, particularly with regard to the communal services also mobilized. This situation, which, of course, also reflects the broader debate under way in the framework of the learning committee that you have launched, leads me to ask you the following questions: what is your assessment of the coordination of relief services following the various storms that have hit our country in recent days, and in particular the number 1722 and the lack of coordination? How could the coordination of different services be improved in the face of non-vital emergencies, including with the municipal authorities. Finally, could you take stock of the large-scale test of the BE-Alert system conducted last January and the lessons that can be drawn from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u46	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, on Thursday 17 February in the morning, the Royal Meteorological Institute (MRI) launched an orange alert for the coast and the provinces of West Flanders, East Flanders and Antwerp, as well as a yellow alert for the rest of the territory from 18 to 19 February. The National Crisis Centre (CCN) has been active in gathering useful information and alerting its partners, but also its coordinating role by taking the decision to organize an evaluation and coordination meeting very quickly. The evaluation meeting was held on 17 February at 1:30 p.m. Its objective was to collect the latest information and forecasts for the following hours and to determine whether a flood risk should be considered. The coordination meeting was held at 8.30 p.m. that evening. A third meeting was held on Friday, 18 February, at 7.45 a.m. In addition, the status reports were sent after each coordination meeting to the members of those meetings, as well as to the governors and their services, so that they could have the latest useful information available. Defence and Civil Protection were invited to all coordination meetings for the same purpose in order to prepare for the best. At Crisnaeus, means of sealing and clearing equipment for the highway – one of the main tasks of civil protection – were on hold and ready to take action. There was the same device in Brasschaat where the number of operatives in units had been increased by recalling volunteers and by the presence of an additional section of professionals. Members of the Emergency Preparedness Branch were present at the NCC's coordination meetings. The NCC transmits all warnings received daily from MRI to many partners via BE-Alert. With regard to alerting the population, since the situation related to storm Eunice was not uniform throughout Belgium, it was decided to send various BE-Alert campaigns. From 17 to 20 February, 46 BE-Alert campaigns were launched for citizens, 11 of them by the federal departments of the governors concerned and 35 by the municipal authorities. A total of 1,381,766 e-mails and 38,448 text messages were sent. There were 38,420 relief interventions in the Flemish Region, 2,104 interventions by the SIAMU in the Brussels-Capital Region and 5,113 interventions in the Walloon Region. There were 49,247 calls on 1722 between 18 and 19 February 2022, as well as 12,135 requests for assistance via the 1722 e-window. At times of storm Eunice, there were more emergency calls in 1722 than the ability to respond on the ground. These calls are then dealt with as the capacities become available. These were either calls for which special relief equipment was not available because of the fact that other interventions were already under way, or staff were engaged in priority interventions. For this reason, every time the number 1722 is activated, citizens are asked to wait and, preferably, use the e-window to apply. Citizens are also always informed that the emergency areas first deal with priority interventions and that, therefore, there too, we must have patience. It was essential to prepare the population for the arrival of storm Eunice and to receive the necessary recommendations and advice. The CNN has taken the following steps to inform citizens. At the initiative of the CNN, a communications unit was established with partners. Direct contact has been established with the heads of discipline 5 of the governors. Visuals were developed and distributed to governors, local authorities and partner services. Prior to and during the storm, emphasis was placed on communication regarding the need to stay inside, avoid movement and the impact of the storm, particularly on mobility. During the storm, CELINFO supported communication around emergency number 112 and number 1722. During the storm, social networks and media were closely monitored and monitored. In conclusion, the necessary coordinations were put in place to ensure that departments and competent authorities were properly informed so that they could properly prepare themselves and take appropriate action. During the storm, civil protection was mobilized in Ghent, Oudenaarde, Borgerhout, Antwerp, Asse and the West Flanders Crisis Centre following the report of a tanker in distress off the Belgian coast. To my astonishment, in Wallonia, the Crisis Unit received only one request for intervention from the highway police for the cutting of a tree in Awans. In view of the above, I do not have the impression that a number of services have reacted at the last minute. The emergency services intervened as soon as they were called. As a reminder, intervention management and personnel planning are the responsibility of the relief zones and, if they are purchased, of the governors according to the type of crisis management announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is one point that I would like to return to, namely the issue of civil security. Indeed, I was questioned by hearing, on RTL, that the firefighters had to choose where they were going to intervene because there were too many requests and they did not have sufficient capacity to respond. Everyone knows that firefighters are bent in four to meet the needs of the population. But it must be noted that there is a lack of resources. This is particularly the case at the call centre, which, unable to absorb all calls, was forced to put people on hold. We already knew there was a staggering shortage of staff in this centre. This is a recurring problem. We can't settle for this kind of reaction. The necessary means must be made available to ensure that, in the event of such a disaster, optimal action can be taken, without waiting for victims or victims for lack of personnel or resources. The federal government should assume its share of the responsibility for funding relief areas. Indeed, so far, this is not the case. In doing so, it is the municipalities and the provinces that must assume everything while the federal government has a responsibility in this area. For how long is he not going to assume his responsibilities in terms of funding the relief zones as provided for by the law? It must be respected because it has consequences on the ground, as has been seen in recent events. A lesson has to be learned. In addition to these recent events, floods have taken place. We're faced with situations that repeat each other. At some point, things have to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u48	Madam Minister, I thank you for all the details you have provided, figures in support. In fact, we didn't have a big squabble because of the rescue services that did excellent work on the ground. In addition, there was sufficient strength, given the necessary interventions. However, something needs to be done at the coordination level. Let me give you a few examples as mayor and president of a rescue zone. In fact, there was often talk of trees that had crashed on roads and barred roads. In my little town, there were ten. What happens then? In each commune, a team of workers is on the bridge, available to intervene. The citizens telephone the mayor, the echevin, the works department and the workers go there. But other citizens formed 112 or 1722 to call the firemen to do the same. And there's a lack of coordination. I therefore believe that action must be taken to improve care. Why not, for example, a specific telephone number per commune simply for road obstructions, so as to relieve 112 and 1722 for a whole series of problems. You talked about the Crisnea barracks, and what you said is important. You said that this barracks received only one call when the personnel were ready with the sealing equipment and all the necessary equipment for the wind damage. Don't be surprised! At two and a half hours' drive, I'm not gonna call Crisnea. I'm never gonna call Crisnea! Today, the barracks, the civil protection posts, the two that remain are far too far away from a large part of the territory they must protect! The evaluation of civil protection reform and the need for additional civil protection posts, the return to decentralization if it is to have a future and the service is to be effective for the entire population
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u49	Mr. President, Minister, the General Inspection of the Federal and Local Police (GPA) recently issued its report on the anti-fascist demonstration held in Gilly on 25 January 2020. Last month, the mayor of Charleroi, Paul Magnette, made his mea culpa and acknowledged his responsibility for the mismanagement and mispreparation of this demonstration. Indeed, the administrative authority has repeatedly failed to fulfil its obligations in terms of foresight and consultation. There have been several problems and shortcomings in the chain of command. The administrative authority was not at the command post on D-Day. The mayor was not present in the Carolo territory on the day of the demonstration. Finally, no debriefing was organised with the police, although a disproportionate use of the police had been deployed. Minister, you were one of the recipients of this report. What was your reaction at the time of his reception? As Minister of the Interior, what is your analysis of what happened? What conclusions do you draw for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u50	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, the IGA's investigation report on the management of the order service of 25 January 2020 by the Charleroi police zone has come to my attention and received my best attention. In concrete terms, the report was divided into two parts. The first part, on the preparatory phase of the order service, was sent to my predecessor on 21 July 2020. The second part, dealing with the implementation and follow-up phase, was forwarded to me. I would like to begin by stressing that it was at the request of the mayor of Charleroi that the general inspection was seized of this problem. On the basis of the report submitted to me, I can only agree with the IGA in its conclusions and recommendations. I think, first of all, of the absence, in the head of the organiser, of an application for authorisation of the event. Secondly, the lack of consultation, dialogue and prior agreement most likely had an impact on the operation of the order service. Finally, different modes of action and use of coercion have probably created a sense of police provocation. Some of them were not opportune, proportional and legitimate. I will conclude by recalling the essential importance of prior contact between the administrative authority or its representatives and the organizers of events. The purpose of this contact is, in particular, to find a common balance between the requirements, expectations and interests of all groups and parties participating in or facing an event. This makes it possible to mark the course of the process. The maintenance of public order is a sine qua non for the full exercise of freedoms. A situation in which public order prevails protects the individual rights of every citizen and makes it possible to exercise them. In the absence of a balance between these two sets of values, the exercise of individual rights and freedoms is threatened. As such, it is important for the organizers to seek prior written authorization from the administrative authority. A simple call to protest on Facebook is not enough. Finally, it remains essential for the police to conduct a risk analysis in order to best prepare for each event.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u51	Madam Minister, I have retained everything you have said to me. There have indeed been some shortcomings on both sides, but what strikes me the most is the OCAM report which said that this kind of demonstration should be banned. If we do not rely on this report by the specialists of the OCAM, then I do not understand why he is being asked for his opinion. That's what I wish I'd heard from you. The OCAM said there was a risk, a potential danger, but its opinion was not respected. So I'm still hungry. When you ask for someone's opinion, especially from the OCAM which is still recognized, it is a nonsense not to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u52	Madam Minister, the idea of community policing or proximity police has long been the basic philosophy of the police, yet in the many policy texts. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is very much in favour of this concept of proximity police. In order to improve trust between the police and citizens, it is essential that the police services are socially well integrated. In this way, the police are aware of all the challenges surrounding security or viability and the police can work with the citizens to find solutions. In addition, the figure of the district agent is increasingly being looked at for specific security problems or new social problems, such as intra-family violence. During the discussion in committee of the recommendations of the P Committee a few weeks ago, you saw a role for the district agent in dealing with this type of violence. So much is expected of the district agent. Unfortunately, however, the function of district agent is still not an attractive function, even though it has been anticipated that it will be upgraded in the past. The district agent still deserves, I think, less than his or her colleagues from the intervention units. In the last two policy papers, the importance of proximity police was clearly stated. This was also linked to concrete actions in the 2021 policy paper. For example, there would be an evaluation of the citizen's satisfaction with the proximity of the police. You also announced a range of initiatives to make the function of district inspector more attractive. There would also be volunteers in the police force. Has the satisfaction survey been carried out in the meantime? If so, what were the results? If not, when will it be planned? What's the status of the customized training for district agents? Are there any full-fledged community teams? Who's part of these neighborhood teams? How do you want to promote the contactability of district agents? What exactly is the purpose of volunteering, as included in the policy paper? How do you intend to make the function of district agent concrete and in the short term more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u53	As I explained in my policy statement, I would like the police to be as close to the citizen as possible. Neighborhood police care is a basic function of the police zones and also an important part of community-oriented police care. The proximity police is one of the foundations of local police and one of the main elements of the Permanent Commission for Local Police memorandum. I have therefore asked the VCLP to take this part of my policy statement to heart. With regard to the assessment of citizens' satisfaction, we are looking at the results of the safety monitor in the first instance. They are now being fully processed. On this basis, it will be determined whether, and if so, what additional questioning may be required. The functional district police training was updated and updated in 2021. In order to offer district police training in a uniform manner, an updated reference recognition file was proposed to the recognised police schools in February 2021. This includes the possibility to provide for certain optional modules according to local needs. For the concrete operational implementation of the district police, for example through the deployment of district teams, I am also awaiting the results of the working groups on this matter by the VCLP. He will also comment on the accessibility and the attractiveness of the function of district inspector. The pecuinary aspect is only a part of this. My predecessor has abolished the contribution of proximity police, along with 17 other contributions. Contrary to what you make appear, the policemen do not receive a premium either. They often perform irregular duty hours, with more night, weekend and overtime. It goes without saying that they pay extra, given the impact on the work-life balance. More inconvenient arrangements for over-, weekend and night hours may contribute to making the function of district inspector more attractive. However, I am convinced that the attractiveness of a job cannot be merely rewarded. In my view, the working conditions and the associated job joy and framework contribute equally to this. For the volunteers, I would like to refer you to my recent answers on the subject. I expect that the CVLP will also make the necessary recommendations in the proximity police working group to further shape the deployment of volunteers in the police force. Finally, I would like to say that the multidisciplinary committee for financing and the optimal scale of the local areas within the framework of the State-General of the police is examining the basic functionality of neighbourhood cooperation together with the six other basic functions. In the context of the optimal scale, it examines the basic functions to be performed by the police of the future, the way in which they should do this and, in particular, how much and with what police capacity. We also expect to make progress in the analysis this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u54	As far as the difference in remuneration and premiums are concerned, I agree with you that monetary remuneration is not the only thing that makes a job attractive, but it is often important for the police how functions are valued. When we talk about tackling intra-family violence, we should also look at the role of the district agent. Intra-family violence is not limited to office hours. We may then have to think about strengthening the district teams in order to be able to deploy them at different times. They would therefore receive specific training covering specific problems as well as the social dimension. It is also good that police schools provide additional training and hopefully they will be followed. I look forward to seeing the results of the security monitor and I will certainly continue to follow closely the mentioned aspect of police activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u55	Mr Goffin, in view of the many German translations to be drawn up due to the covid crisis, the German central translation service has been facing an ad hoc overload of work since March 2020. TBSA effectively supported the National Crisis Centre in providing information to the public, including evening and weekend benefits. The Public Health FPS also received effective support from the TBSA as part of its voluntary missions. This workload was to the detriment of the other missions of the SCTA. We all hope for an imminent return to normal. The Royal Decree of 6 June 2019 organising the administrative and financial management of the administrative service with autonomous accounting (central German translation service) does not provide for the possibility of using independent translators in respect of the SCTA. Your second question does not concern the problem of translating federal legislation into German, but rather the FPS Justice. The SCTA translates royal orders and ministerial orders of the SPF Justice as part of a translation agreement with the SPF Justice. The work overload of the SCTA is due in particular to the covid crisis, which we hope will not continue. In addition, the world of translation is constantly changing in the light of technological developments in this field. Translators are becoming increasingly involved in the post-edition revision profession, which goes hand in hand with a significant increase in productivity. Finally, translations for purely internal use will disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u56	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u57	Mr Van Langenhove, smart fences and camera surveillance are a useful and responsible means of preventing intrusion into port facilities. They prevent transmigrants from hiding in containers and trailers at terminals in the hope of getting into the UK. After all, the transmigrants put their own lives at risk. The victims in Essex at the end of 2019 are, of course, a sad example of this, especially of the risks they run. In 2020, the UK Home Office financed 800,000 euros for equipment for the Zeebrugge shipping police. However, the federal police are not directly involved in the projects you cite. They are the work of private port companies, the port operator and the UK Border Force. The purpose of the thermal camera is to detect in good time or to try to cross over to the UK from the beach on the territory of the West Coast police zone. Avoiding victims is, of course, the main objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u58	Madam Secretary, a number of things remain unclear. Maybe I will put a follow-up question on that, but thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic709x.u59	The other questions on the agenda will be discussed at a forthcoming committee meeting.
