ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u1	Prime Minister, I hope you had a nice Kumbaya moment last night. I haven't had a report on it yet. I heard you were trying to revive your government in a secret location. I must say that this is also necessary, and I hope, of course, for you, that it has worked. I wonder if you also mentioned migration at that time. That remains a particularly difficult point. There is little attention to it, because everything is swallowed up by corona. There is very little attention to migration, unlike at the time of the government in which we sat together, you with the powers of Development Cooperation and Digital Agenda, I as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Then there was a bit more commotion about the policy that was being pursued. Basically, a number of major problems remain. Last weekend, an Eritrean migrant wanted to climb a truck in Flanders. He did not succeed, but was dragged 200 meters and then died. That is a very tragic story of someone who illegally wanted to reach the United Kingdom, like so many thousands, a number that continues to grow. Secondly, a few weeks ago, we heard that the Brussels Government bought a building to turn it into a transit hub to the United Kingdom. Mr Mahdi expressed his displeasure at this. I questioned him about that last week and he said he didn't agree, but that was the end of it. Your party is also a member of the Brussels Government. Apart from Mr Mahdi's party, all the majority parties are members of the Brussels Government. Moreover, he could perfectly invoke a conflict of interest, because this is only going to make the problems worse and the misery even deeper. However, he is not prepared to do so. In that sense, he actually agrees to the purchase. The only one who will be satisfied with that is the mayor of Calais. Brussels will take over the role of hub to the United Kingdom with that building. Thirdly, I have fought with Mr Mahdi on several occasions. This was, among other things, about the initial asylum budget. I insist that this is a record amount, in particular EUR 530 million. Never was that high. He disputes that, but I think he'll have to admit that what I'm saying is correct. In the meantime, I have been following this for 20 years and I therefore believe that I am well informed. Last week, your government was also sentenced to pay 5,000 euros a day that a migrant who applies for asylum does not receive a reception. That's unseen. It's a harsh conviction by the court that your government's policy is failing in the area of care. As a icing on the cake, Poland today starts building a border fence of 180 km long and 5 meters high. Thus there will be a border fence between Poland and Belarus, as between Greece and Turkey, in response to the illegal flow of migrants. Your government said we should all let them in, but fortunately the Poles and the Estonians did not think it a good idea to join the macabre dance of dictator Lukashenko in Belarus. Fortunately, the Poles did not listen to you and your government. That border fence is the perfect illustration of the bankrupt policy that the European Union has been advocating for years, of the complete failure of the European Migration Pact, with a lot of talk but no concrete action being taken. A fortress Europe is in the process of being built. I regret that in itself, because I am the Australian model...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u2	Mr Francken, may I point out that you have been sitting on your regulatory speaking time for 1 minute 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll finish. For me, building a border fence is the perfect illustration of the cowardly leadership and look-away behaviour of this generation of European leaders, to which I also charge you, Mr De Croo. This is really grotesque. We are moving step by step towards a Fortress Europe, while another, much better model is possible. I am thinking of the Australian model, which is much more humane and gives real refugees opportunities to migrate here, while illegal migration is being stopped. My specific question is where we stand with the European Migration Pact. Mr. De Croo, is that still an issue? Where does it go, after all these years of promises, but little concrete action?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u4	I always try to report very disciplinedly on the European Councils and the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs. I have therefore already explained this issue at the meeting on 9 November. The debate on migration is actually the one that took place in June last year, which has been included again. The first was the strengthening of the Union's readmission agreements with the countries of origin and the necessary reaffirmation of European support for the reception of refugees from Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and the wider region. There appeared to be quite a lot of criticism, including from our country, of the actual standstill in the discussions on the proposals of the migration pact. I reiterated the need to speed up the implementation of parts of the Commission's proposals, as far as possible in a balanced way. In particular, there must always be a balance between solidarity and the responsibility of all Member States. In an attempt to break the standstill that arises if one insists on the principle that progress can only be made if there is agreement on the overall package, we have always argued that we should be able to go ahead with certain partial agreements. It is important for our country that the Council's conclusions on recognition of the problem of secondary movements be incorporated and that the failure of Dublin, as I have said on several occasions, be made clear. Finally, the Commission has also been asked to come forward with new proposals on border protection. Without effective border protection, Europe will never achieve a common asylum policy. Mr. Francken, you say it was our country's position to let everyone into the European Union. I'm surprised you say that, because that is absolutely not the position of the federal government. In general, Europe must show that it is capable of pursuing a policy that is humane, including those who need protection. That is a policy that follows on from the policy you pursued when you were in office. The policy must be in line with European and international rules and fundamental rights, but it must also be firm in the field of return for people who are not entitled to such protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u5	Prime Minister, if you say that Belgium's position was not that those people should be allowed in, that is clearly incorrect. Mr Mahdi has made his position very clear, both publicly and in Parliament and in the media: 'They must be able to apply for asylum in Poland and in Europe, after which there will be a rapid screening and a quick return for those who do not have a right of asylum'. Quick screening and a quick return, the biggest fake news ever spread by governments and by the European Commission: there is no rapid screening and there is no return! Please have your staff take a look at the return figures of 2021 and make sure you have a seat at hand, because you will not be well off the numbers. There's just no quick screening. It takes years, the asylum procedure lasts months to more than a year in terms of lead time. The return has been reduced to virtually zero, Prime Minister, those are the facts. You continue to believe in a story that can never work, giving the right of residence after illegal travel to Europe on European territory. Stop doing that, because that is the great trigger that makes people smugglers and the billions of business of the smuggling industry so rich and alive. Stop it, choose another model. Choose the model of our friend Mattias Tesfaye, the Danish Social Democratic Minister, who clearly says what I have been saying for years: opt for a different model, take care of care in a country outside the European Union, do not grant any more right of residence on European territory. After all, that is the great root that keeps so many people coming. So get in the coalition of the willing of Denmark. Now finally work on another model and stop the chaos that is now being organized. Belgium is the drain in the bathtub of Western Europe. It's a real disaster and it's only gonna get worse and worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, my questions date back to the end of November when the policy paper was discussed, but I had them postponed. So maybe they're dated for a piece. In November 2021, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) received many reports of phishing messages in the name of the identity app itsme. Through a text message or e-mail, scammers try to access someone's personal data or bank account. I was allowed to receive some of those texts myself. Cons are becoming increasingly inventive and reacting to actuality. After all, many people only got to know itsme for the first time by using the Covid Safe Ticket. Cons play handy on this, too. Recently, an even more dangerous form of phishing has surfaced asking for an app to be installed. If you do that, the dangerous FluBot virus will be installed. That virus can take full control of someone's device and even send messages in their name. Together with bank dome Febelfin and the Cyber Security Coalition, the CCB launched a awareness campaign, combined with the new free app Safeonweb. That app warns users of cyber threats and new phishing messages. The campaign didn't happen in the run-up to Black Friday and the end of the year, because even there it was expected that swindlers with phishing messages would play handy with so-called interesting offers. I have the following questions, Prime Minister. In what way do you think the awareness campaign can be sold to the general public? She'll probably be over by now, but she's still needed today. Can you explain the operation of the Safeonweb app? The CCB has been able to block 1.3 million suspicious links over the past year, but can the CCB also calculate about how many people were effectively victims of phishing and can it translate that into euros? To what extent is the so-called FluBot virus on the rise? Many devices are blocked in case of contamination in order to prevent the sending of text messages. Is the CCB gonna do that and how? My second question was addressed to Secretary of State De Bleeker, but was referred to you. It is a similar question about phishing mails that however seem to come from My e-Box. I refer to its written record.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u7	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, we discussed this part of the policy paper. This is the opportunity to give more details about this. The central theme of our awareness campaign is indeed the fight against phishing. The CCB and the Cyber Security Coalition have joined forces for a campaign that should appeal to the widest possible audience. The campaign can therefore be seen and heard through numerous channels, including through advertising spots on almost all channels, via television, through various social media channels and also advertisements in certain newspapers. All that campaign material is available on the Safeon website so that everyone can reuse it for local campaigns. The Safeonweb app sends two kinds of warnings. First, you will receive threats if an infection on your registered home network has been reported to Safeonweb. Second, you will receive news about general cyberthreat in Belgium. The app is made available free of charge in the appstore. In 2020, 7,5002 victims effectively reported to the police. We assume that this is only a small percentage of the total. Febelfin reports 67,000 fraudulent transactions via phishing for a total net amount of 34 million euros. Last year, 3.7 million suspicious messages were sent to suspicious@safeonweb.be. That's about 12,000 a day. The CCB is in constant contact with the Internet service providers to monitor the advance of the FluBotvirus. The CCB continuously monitors the command-and-control service of the virus and transmits it to the ISPs automatically. When an ISP finds that a device is infected with the FluBotvirus and sends a large number of text messages, the device is blocked, the owner is notified and it is recommended to make his device virus-free as soon as possible. Due to all common measures, the FluBot infection in Belgium remains relatively low, but it remains a threat that needs to be monitored continuously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the informative answer. It clears up a lot, which was my intention in the first place. The figure of 67,000 reported fraudulent transactions, which I continue to hear here and which accounts for around EUR 34 million, is probably just a tip of the veil. The amount is likely to be much higher. This must continue to encourage us to continue to devote massively to the problem, which is quite disruptive for our economy, also in view of the amount of money being secreted. That's money that people can't use to invest in their own economy anymore. It is therefore very important that we continue to make cyber security work properly and optimally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u9	Prime Minister, my family was in Paris this weekend, as a birthday present for our daughter Suzanne, who very much wanted to see the Eiffel Tower. At the moment, it has been completely illuminated by the French Presidency of the European Union. Such a European atmosphere. But what struck me most was not the blue Eiffel Tower, but all the French flags that were next to it; a very great French nationalism, standing up for one's own interests, even when one is President of the European Union. I come to the question I would like to ask you. I see that Belgium is constantly participating in a pro-Europe story, but that it is actually about a pro-France story. When talking about military troops in Mali, one should not be an expert to see a French agenda in it. The recently concluded bilateral tax treaty between Belgium and France immediately shows the advantages for France. When talking about a shelter for illegal residents organised in Brussels, it is mainly in favour of France and always at our disadvantage. My question is: when will we finally get something back? When will we finally ensure that it is a reciprocal relationship and that our interests are strongly defended? I also put this question to Mrs Wilmès during the budget debate. She agreed with me and also felt that we should adopt a much more assertive attitude on the European stage and also fight with France for our own interests. I will make the question very specific. I'm from the West Coast. There we will soon be faced with a huge windmill park just off the coast of Dunkirk, just across the border. This will lead to a breach of European nature law, and it is bad for our tourism, and so on. It's time we hit the table there. I know that you have recently had discussions with the French Prime Minister, Mr Castex. I know that you consult regularly, especially in connection with the European Presidency. I want to see you turn that into a battle point. Please, stand up for our interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u10	Mr President, Mr Loones, the plans for the French wind farm have already been put before my French colleagues on several occasions. For the first time, I did so when I met President Macron, at the beginning of our reign. Minister Van Quickenborne discusses this very regularly with his colleague and I did indeed discuss this with Prime Minister Castex a few weeks ago. I have made it clear what our concerns are. Several elements, such as a visual aspect, influence the transport lines from the port of Ostend and influence the possibilities for rescue at sea. We naturally support the French ambition to expand its capacity of offshore wind energy. Our country has been an absolute pioneer in this, because we are far beyond countries with a much longer coastline than ours. Although our coastline is only 67 kilometres long, we are about the fourth country in the world in terms of installed capacity. Our country has managed to do so in a way that balances different interests. A first important element is that we have made sustainable wind energy possible at sea. There are also industrial interests in our country, because we have developed an entire sector there. Visual aspects and nature aspects were also taken into account. In our opinion, the current impact of the park in Dunkirk is encountering a number of important obstacles for our country. France is prepared to discuss this with our country. In the last few weeks there have been some additional talks on this subject, but our concerns remain. In the current state of the dossier, we can establish a certain degree of rapprochement, but the current status of the results is insufficient for our country. We therefore maintain the dialogue with France and we stand by our position. We hope that, on the basis of a dialogue, we will be able to reach an agreement that meets our concerns, but if we cannot, we will have to take other steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u11	Prime Minister, I am particularly pleased with the last sentence: "If this is not possible, we will have to take other steps." We had already heard what you said before that last sentence. I know that it is also your concern, that you also see that this wind farm is not in place and that it should be at least much deeper in the sea. I really want to ask you to be assertive. In politics, what one wants to link is linked. We come at a stage where France will be a party asking for different things, to make that presidency a success, if only because Mr Macron wants to be President again. Make that a matter of honor. The West Coast will certainly be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u12	Prime Minister, there was a fascinating interview recently in Het Nieuwsblad. "Many of the levers of labour market policy are still federal. Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne was going to come up with a reform. I haven't seen anything yet." Mrs Crevits of CD&V spoke. They asked: "Are you disappointed in Mr Dermagne's course?" The answer was: "Yes, other regions, like us, are asking for an asymmetric labour market policy, but the federal government has not yet decided. This is important. In the corona crisis I wanted to offer a group of temporary unemployed another job, but I didn't even have their data." The journalist asked: "You just want to do it yourself?', to which Mrs Crevits replied: "Yes, please. What have the last few weeks seen of Dermagne? A tweet in which he cancels my community service. Notes must be cracked in the foreseeable future." The N-VA is occasionally accused of instrumentalising the Flemish government. Nothing could be further from the truth. We'll ask every government to do its job. Here, Mrs Crevits asks that action be taken at federal level and that the asymmetric policy, which was announced, finally arrives. We do not see anything coming and Mrs Crevits does not see anything coming. In fact, it goes so far that CD&V now seems to think it is necessary to submit an additional legislative proposal, with which they actually want to install some kind of complaint procedure. If a certain state thinks that it is too slow, in this case your government, it should be possible to petition. Then you'd have to explain why you're working too late and too slow. I found it striking that CD&V only made that proposal, especially because they said in a communication that it fits perfectly within the vivaldi story. Prime Minister, in the Chamber it is possible to have ten people sign a bill. I've seen that not all ten signatures have been used up in the CD&V bill. Will other groups, in particular Open Vld, also sign up so that the proposal can be voted on quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u13	Mr Loones, I do not need to repeat to you that it is not really appropriate for me as Prime Minister to comment extensively on legislative proposals that have not yet been considered in the Chamber. It is also difficult for me to speak on behalf of the political groups in the Chamber. I have read through the press about the substance of the proposal in question. The Länder wish to consult with the federal government on certain issues, for example to examine whether an asymmetric policy could be at issue. I think there are ways of dealing with this issue today. Over the past year, the Consultative Committee has met very often. This is an excellent forum for cooperation and consultation. This has worked well for other themes. The coalition agreement stipulates that we will improve its operation. All proposals in this context can certainly be looked at. As far as asymmetric policy is concerned, I have already answered questions on this subject a number of times in committee. In a previous sitting, for example, I pointed out that, in the last budgetary conclave, we explicitly addressed questions from the Länder, including those relating to employment policy. The Flemish Government has also explicitly recognised this. It is intended that the trade ministers should examine further opportunities for asymmetric policy. You can ask them in detail what steps they have taken recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u14	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Firstly, you say that you have decided on everything and that the Länder have thanked you for all that has happened in the field of labour market policy and have acknowledged it. But the statement by the Flemish Minister of Work, Mrs Crevits of CD&V, that she has not yet seen anything of this, does not seem to me to be a compliment on the work of your government. Maybe we have a different definition of the word nothing? Secondly, you say that there are already ways of raising problems, that the Consultation Committee often meets and works well. I can only conclude that at least CD&V doesn't believe you. In any case, the party considers that it is insufficient and therefore brings forward legislative proposals, because it rightly feels that a carwatt, a new drive, a turbo effect is needed to ensure that your government finally takes action and effectively operationalises the promises of its own government agreement on asymmetric policy; not in words, but in something that can be seen, so that Mrs Crevits can also see it. Thirdly, there is indeed the parliamentary process in which texts must first be considered. I can only repeat that there are additional opportunities. As long as the text has not been tabled, it will be much easier to sign it together. I will make that suggestion to the CD&V colleagues, but I am sure they will make those contacts themselves. To quote Mr Verherstraeten, their proposal fits perfectly in the atmosphere and the policy your government wishes to pursue. A quick vote on the proposal should therefore be easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u15	With this question, I once again look at who are friends at European level. Between France and Italy there was already a lot longer; the two countries do not actually agree. Macron, the great European, even closed the internal borders as a result of the asylum crisis, escalating. Now we read that Mr Macron and Mr Draghi have found each other. They signed a new treaty, the Quirinal treaty. So they're boyfriends again. Why? That is because there are very important interests at stake. Europe has plans to adapt the budgetary rules. The European Commission is expected to make a proposal on this, and France and Italy are obviously hoping for a more lax policy. In this way, invoices can be transferred back to northern Europe and they can show themselves to be more flexible, as they are called. It is the question where all this goes and whether Mr Macron and Mr Draghi will soon be sitting in the same chair, but well, in the meantime they have found the time to become friends again. Do you want to be friends with them too? Did they contact you for that? Have they pointed out to you that you are actually leading a bit of a southern European country in view of our budget, inflation rates and deficits, that you are actually in their club and that it might be better to join the Quirinal Treaty? Would your Southern European budget agenda match Mr Macron's and Mr Draghi's ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u16	Mr Loones, I am not sure how serious I should take your question. In general, you ask very well-founded questions, but you are now making a bit of a fool of yourself. I can't stand the fact that France and Italy are talking to each other. Moreover, the fact that there were conversations between the two countries was publicly available information. As far as I know, it's about a bilateral agreement. I don't see why I, as a third country, should join them or break into them or whatever. There are discussions with all Member States on the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP) and Minister Van Peteghem already explained in detail the position of our country in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u17	Prime Minister, first of all, you are asking how serious you must take the matter. Well, I say to you that you must take it very seriously. We are talking about a bilateral treaty in appearance. In reality, it is an attempt to define the European agenda significantly and to indicate who will pay the bill of budget deficits in the south of Europe. Prime Minister, you must take the treaty so seriously. Secondly, you note that the Minister of Finance has already given a broad answer and indicated what position our country, Belgium, will take. At least I didn't see that. What I have seen is a policy paper from the Minister of Finance, in which there is barely half a word on the position taken by Belgium in the context of the SGP debate. What I have also seen is a policy paper by Mr Dermine, which seems to be moving towards the PS agenda in this area, in particular more flexibility. All the texts circulating therefore state that the Belgian position will be taken in spring 2022, because the government is not yet out of the question. You may even have to count on Mrs Wilmès to intervene in a dossier that should actually be the responsibility of Minister Van Peteghem. However, it is constantly PS Excellency Dermine who takes the floor. The fact that you are saying here that the Belgian position has already been defined is simply not correct. What we have seen now is a note from the Flemish Government asking for a stricter budget orthodoxy and not to celebrate the reins. I haven't seen any communication from the Walloon or Brussels authorities. However, I can imagine what they want. That will rather be the Italian and French lines. Prime Minister, how serious do you have to take the matter? You must take the treaty very seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u18	Prime Minister, the corona contamination is getting way out of hand. I believe that almost everyone is surrounded by infected people. We also note today that the quarantine measures that follow have a huge impact on society, a much greater impact than corona itself. This is not only a problem for education, it is of course also a problem for the economy, for example because many people have to look after their children. That's all over the news. In addition, although the number of hospitalisations is increasing, I have been fortunate to learn through contacts with hospital directors and so on that hospitalisations as such have not caused any capacity problems for a very long time and that there is no increase in the number of hospitalisations in the intensive care departments. Hopefully there won't be, thanks to the milder course of omikron. That does not mean that the old adagium governor, c'est prévoir, would not apply here. It goes without saying that we were robbed by the first and second wave, but now that we have to note that during the later waves regular care has been postponed because the healthcare system has not been able to cope with the corona growth, that is absolutely not a mistake of regular care. Regular care has not been developed for such a severe crisis. Then there is the question of how, in an emergency situation, we can ensure the necessary scaling-up, so as not to delay ordinary care. In fact, I should be asking these questions to the Minister of Health. I have already confronted him with this, but both from his answers and from press releases I can see that he is doing little about it and is almost opposed to it in principle. For him, the problem lies only with my apologies for the economic terminology on the supply side. We must ensure that people do not end up in hospital because of all kinds of limitations in society. This is certainly partly justified, to the extent that there is proportionality, but it does not alter the fact that it is a government's responsibility to ensure that everyone who needs care gets it. I'll come to my question. I hope it doesn't turn out to be relevant anymore, but we can't know that now. Has one learned from these waves for a possible new outburst of a yet sickening variant? Has the government developed techniques to ensure a temporary emergency scaling so that there should no longer be any delay in other care for people at serious health risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u19	Mr President, the Consultation Committee took place on Friday. We are in a situation where the number of infections measured is very high and the real number is likely to be three or four times higher. The reproductive number for both infections and hospitalizations is higher than 1, indicating that the circulation is still very high. We have also seen in recent days that the number of hospitalizations is increasing, with a number of days on which that number is above 300. For the time being, this does not translate into rising numbers of intensive care, but the decline in occupancy of beds on intensive care has slowed down considerably. With 300 hospitalizations a day one cannot say to be in a situation of seasonal flu. Those people don't end up in the hospital because they have simple flu symptoms, it's a lot more serious than that. The question of the introduction of a barometer had long been raised. So far, it was not obvious, but the direction of the situation has made it necessary. Indeed, this barometer must promote greater transparency and predictability. It is likely that things will improve, but it is also possible that they will deteriorate. To have predefined, balanced and well-known measures seems to me to be positive. It's been a real titanic work to make that barometer. There has been a great deal of consultation with the various governments, sectors and experts. This barometer has been well welcomed by the various sectors concerned. It is important to stress that this barometer contains a number of elements, but some of them are not for two reasons either. Some things are not in it because they are not part of the management strategy. These are matters in which there is only intervention if there really is no other choice. For example, matters relating to our social life are not mentioned in the barometer because they are really the last measures that should be taken, as are measures in education. We are actually doing everything we can to ensure that education can remain open. Some elements are not in the barometer because they are of a different nature. I am thinking of the teleworking obligations and the rules for commercial activities, in particular. To be clear, the three areas included in the barometer are not the only adjustment elements; the elements not included in the barometer may also be adapted. With respect to the Pandemic Act, a risk analysis by OCOL Corona believes that the cumulative criteria are still valid and that a federal approach is therefore still needed. Consequently, the Consultation Committee decided to extend the pandemic by three months, until 28 April. Mr De Roover, I come to your question on emergency capacity. If we look at the terrain and the situation with which the staff are confronted, we have been demanding a great deal of flexibility from the sector over the last two years. If you say that there must be an additional form of flexibility, then that has been the case over the past two years. Had we not had that flexibility in the sector, we would never have managed to control the situation. Over the past two years, there have been few moments, but we have always succeeded in meeting the questions in the field of COOVID-19 with our hospital capacity. A number of concerns have sometimes had to be postponed, which is correct. If you're arguing for some kind of evacuation capacity or expansion vessel, you're partly ignoring the fact that something like this has happened. Over the past few months, this expansion vessel has been used several times. People who are not constantly working on intensive care have been asked to do so. People have sometimes had very heavy timetables, just to be able to do so. It is difficult to ask that there should be some kind of emergency capacity on intensive care, which is only available in times of need. No country organises itself that way. However, it is ensured that people from other domains can jump in to make sure that they can be used when this capacity is needed. It is about highly specialised knowledge that is needed, for example people who can control and organise fans. The organization of work is organized in such a way as to make the best possible use of specialist knowledge. These are very temporary measures, which are particularly debilitating for those people with specialised knowledge. One also uses what is sometimes labeled as the makeshift medium care/high flow method. It has enabled us to increase capacity by more than 10 % at decisive moments, to 2,200 people. You're right to argue for a higher influx into care. We establish a higher influx into the Flemish educational institutions involved, which is good news, but it does take some time. It takes five years for nurses to be sufficiently formed and have sufficient experience to be able to work in the intensive care department. You are also talking about reducing administrative burdens and accounting for efficiency gains. I think a lot has happened on the ground in the first line. In the second line, that is less the case, I think. But that's not what the hospitals complained about either. Although we have to do some things in this area, I do not think it will necessarily help very much in creating emergency capacity. If your plea is intended to look at lessons learned, I absolutely follow you. We are faced with a situation that has been exceptional in recent history. How exceptionally precise, will have to prove in the future. We don't know yet. That we need to learn from it and see how we can better deal with it in the future, I absolutely agree with that. But I believe that your opinion confirms precisely that it is necessary to study this in detail and to draw detailed lessons from it before drawing up proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u20	Prime Minister, you are quite right to be cautious about figures, but I assume you will agree with me that measures are also damaging. We do not therefore need to take as many measures as possible to avoid the worst, because then we will create other terrible situations. There must certainly be sufficient attention to be paid to this damage. You're giving me shreds of an answer. That's a little bit more than I've been able to seduce the Health Minister. In that respect, we are making progress. But it is true that we have been pressing for a long time. For example, colleagues Depoorter and Gijbels had to move the parliamentary heavens and earth to extend or re-enable the buddy scheme. That arrangement was a real help in the better and specialized use of staff. That does indeed lead us to the question of this evaluation. You spoke about the great flexibility of the care staff. I don't want to question it. On the contrary, I would like to pay tribute to it. The question is, however, what lessons have been learned from this. Were there any plans drawn up? Was the information bundled? Have these lessons been converted into roadmaps that could possibly be used tomorrow? That is more than the shreds that have to do with initiatives by hospitals themselves that, à la guerre comme à la guerre, have made incredible efforts to cope with that abundance. Where is the pooling of experience gained in specific circumstances? That is the essence of our question. I think that Parliament can take note of that information and the lessons learned from it by the government. After all, when caring for people in need of care has to be postponed, government policy fails. I hope, in the light of your introduction, that the Omikron variant still carries the good news that it may also be a free vaccine, which makes it part of the management of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I have heard you plead for lessons and, at the same time, you tell us that the Consultation Committee intends to maintain the emergency situation, which means maintaining the pandemic law. I do not understand that you are not learning from the use of the Pandemic Law, which is a way of dispossessing Parliament's right to debate measures and find solutions, since the Codeco does not find them. This was demonstrated with the challenge by the Council of State of the decision taken at the cultural level. You don't learn lessons. You say you plead for it, but you don't. You also do not draw lessons in terms of action to be taken. When the GEMS recommends you to make the autotests free, you decide not to do so. What lessons do you learn from your crisis management? You continue to maintain a policy that divides, polarizes in the population: discrimination with CSTs, hypothesis of vaccination pass and even refers to compulsory vaccination. Now we're gonna catch people by force to get them vaccinated. When you say you plead for lessons, I don't see which ones. You do not take stock that management as a whole does not respond to the situation; you continue to operate in successive closures and openings without implementing a real prevention policy. You push people to get vaccinated with a third or even a fourth dose. On the other hand, you do not plead for patenting vaccines in order to facilitate vaccination in the countries of the South from which the variants come. So I don't understand your logic and I don't understand when you say you're going to learn lessons. What lessons do you learn when you pursue a polarizing, ineffective and anti-democratic policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, I apologize, I was late to ask my question, but I would like to repeat your answer, because I am a little disappointed. You give shreds of a solution, but not vision. That is a real problem during this crisis. The organisation of care needs to be addressed. I expect a prime minister to work on that. You refer to the first line, there have been minor interventions. However, there has still been no thorough debriefing on the second line. You're not gonna come up with any suggestions. I'll be concrete. There is the health future fund, with EUR 1.8 billion. The government receives a revenue of EUR 45 million per year for this purpose. That money used to be re-invested in that fund, now you're taking out the funds and getting into the big pot. Why don't you come up with concrete proposals on guiding graduate nurses and healthcare professionals who start their careers in health care? Prime Minister, you just said that there is more influx into training. The biggest problem, however, is that people who start their careers in healthcare drop out between month 3 and month 6 of their careers. If you use resources there, you can keep those people on track, then you can keep those people at the patient's bed. That's essential. Then there's home care. You referred to the first line. I'll take psychic home care as an example. We are all concerned about the mental well-being of our citizens, after all these very restrictive corona measures. Psychic home care has two nomenclatures. It is impossible to develop a vision based on two nomenclatures. And the needs are hugely high. Do something with the resources that are released. Don't put them in the big pot, just link actions to it. With these actions you will be able to carry out at least the lessons you wish to draw, because that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, in a joint statement many governments of both European and non-European countries are expressing their views on the genocide of the Jezidi minority. That is, of course, a wonderful gesture, which the Jezidis experience as a push in the back. The statement was signed by Albania, Armenia, Australia, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Poland Slovakia, Slovenia, Malta, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. I notice that the striking absentee in the statement is Belgium. A few months ago, however, a resolution on the genocide against the Jezidis, which I myself was allowed to co-write, was unanimously adopted by the Chamber of Representatives. This also implies that Belgium should recognise the genocide and condemn it internationally. Mr Prime Minister, my questions are rather simple. First of all, why didn't you sign the statement? Secondly, what concrete action did the government take after our resolution, which was adopted unanimously and in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u24	Mr President, Mr Metsu, as far as I can tell, the statement to which you refer is the statement of the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance, which expresses great concern that thousands of Jezidi women and children are still missing in the region where Daesh operates. The International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance is a group of like-minded countries, to which Belgium does not currently belong. That is why the statement was not submitted to our country either. Of course I agree with the condemnation of the disappearance of so many Jezidi women and children. For the follow-up to the resolution on which you speak and which has been approved by the Chamber, please refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u25	The Netherlands is a member of that Belief Alliance. It might be appropriate to consider whether it would not be useful to be part of this. At the very least, we must ask ourselves whether we can sign this statement or come up with a strong statement ourselves. As far as the Jezidis and IS are concerned, it turns out to be a difficult fact. I'm being referred from the Justice Department to the State Department and then to you. I will therefore put the questions to Minister Wilmès. Here's my plea to come up with a powerful statement. The Jezidis deserve that and expect that from us, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u26	Prime Minister, your government decided to participate, on 8 and 9 December, in the so-called U.S. Summit of Democracies, which turned out to be a cynical spectacle, asking many questions. The first: how did you decide to participate in this kind of summit without any prior discussion in this Parliament? Secondly, is it well in the United States to organise a summit of democracies, knowing their own history? Indeed, they supported various coups d'état. We can speak of Chile or Honduras, not to mention the other 80 countries that have been destabilized quite significantly. We can mention Guantanamo and all the anti-democratic measures in the United States, which today claim to organize a summit of democracies. Prime Minister, what was the definition of democracy that led to the choice of participants at this summit? Of the 193 States members of the United Nations, only 97 were invited to attend. We saw, for example, Jair Bolsonaro and the governments of Colombia and Israel. These are not exactly examples of democracy. Even non-members of the UN such as Kosovo and Taiwan were invited, as well as a figure like Juan Guaidó, who does not represent the elected government or even the opposition of Venezuela. Is democracy therefore defined according to the support or not of US interests? Is this the vision of democracy defended at this summit? Prime Minister, I would like a few explanations on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u27	Mr President, I have listened to your question, which looks somewhat like a political pamphlet. It is not forbidden to do so, but it is clear that your definition of democracy and mine are clearly opposed. It is true that at this summit organised by President Biden, not all the invited countries were perfect democracies. Talking only to people who have the same opinions as yours can be easy, but it doesn't lead to much. The real value is to have a discussion with people who have different points of view from ours, but with whom it is possible to listen to each other. That is the value of multilateralism. Perhaps you have a different vision, but it was the starting point of this summit. This very long list of countries clearly expresses the value attached to democracy. We can learn things from each other so that we can move forward. It is true that a number of countries were not invited: Cuba, Nicaragua, Bolivia, China, Russia, Ethiopia, Vietnam, etc. I hope that, for you, it is not these countries that meet the criteria of democratic countries and with which we should talk in order to try to learn how they manage democracy. I think it's just the opposite. I am proud that our country was invited and participated in this summit. It also announced concrete actions at national and international level, such as the fact that Belgium is working on the age required to vote in the European elections, which would be reduced to 16 years. Another example is that we work with participation platforms when we think about the future of Europe. At the international level, Belgian cooperation invests resources to make the public space more stable in the countries with which we work. We are funding NGOs concerned with human rights and Belgium is also a candidate for a new mandate for the Human Rights Council within the United Nations. Yes, I think our country clearly has a history to write, in promoting democracy in the world. We clearly have a voice and we have to use it. Our concern about the development of democracy in the world is clearly justified, not only in terms of the international situation, but also in terms of the situation in our own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u28	Prime Minister, your remarks are somewhat contradictory. On the one hand, you say that some countries that are not models of democracy were invited to this summit, that we must be able to discuss with everyone, that it is a question of multilateralism and that disagreements must not prevent discussion. On the other hand, you exclude some countries, considering that a discussion with them is impossible. Strangely enough, they are also banned by the United States. I therefore wonder about your free will. Among the countries that participated in the summit was Colombia. Do you consider this country to be a good example of democracy? I recall that every week dozens of people (activists, trade unionists, political activists) are murdered there. Do you find that normal? In the United States, which claims to be the leaders of this summit, is the Guantanamo camp where detainees are imprisoned and tortured without any trial. Do you find this democratic way of doing things? Do you find it normal for a former whistleblower like Julian Assange to be charged with espionage and face 175 years in prison today? Do you consider this democratic? Is this your model? Prime Minister, I agree with you on one point: we do not have the same vision of democracy or multilateralism. Indeed, your vision of multilateralism is that of the United States. In other words, you agree with the countries that share the position of the Americans and not with the others. I wonder if you have your own vision of democracy or if you are layering your policy over that of the Americans. In view of our participation in this summit and the response you have just given me, I have the feeling that it is the United States that determines for us what is democratic and what is not. Prime Minister, I wonder what pride you can take from this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u29	Prime Minister, it is as if the devil or fate were involved. It's been a while since I submitted this question, but yesterday the press reported that you're looking for a Kumbaya moment. This confirms the spirit of my question, in particular that your government is suffering from ever more crumbling cohesion. They were supposed to meet at a secret location last night. All very exciting, of course. Ministers were asked to be discreet. You want cohesion in the government, but of course you have also heard the New Year speeches. They didn't really point that out. You know the problems, we can read about them anywhere. They were also, apparently, discussed yesterday, namely the fiscal reform, pensions, which was supposed to be before 1 September, you remember what happened to them, the work and activation policy, even Mrs Crevits notes that nothing is happening, the core exit, which I suspect will be postponed until nuclear power stations are shut down, and finally the problem of energy prices and the way in which the population is being supported, both those with lower incomes and the middle class. These are all points on which your government has a serious lack of consensus. Since no contradictory tweets have yet appeared about yesterday's meeting, I have to conclude that nothing has been agreed, nothing has happened. Otherwise, it would have already reached the general public via Twitter. Can you confirm that you met yesterday? What was on the agenda? What were the results of the meeting? How come nothing has appeared on Twitter yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u30	Maybe you shouldn't always take what's in the papers so literally. It seems to me normal that members of the nuclear cabinet meet and speak on a very regular basis. This was undoubtedly the case with the governments in which you participated. You are also well aware that the nuclear cabinet is an informal body which prepares the decisions that are then taken within the Council of Ministers. So it is true that the members of the nuclear cabinet spoke yesterday. That did not happen at all in a secret location, it was a location in Brussels that made it possible to do it in a different place than in Rue de la Loi 16. The discussions that took place are the typical discussions within the nuclear cabinet, which are the current problems, how do we plan and how do we follow up on the various dossiers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u31	Change of food makes you eat. That old Flemish proverb apparently prompted you to eat Thai or I know a lot about it. I understand that you do not give a detailed overview of what was discussed yesterday, but something tells me that if you had made any progress, you would not have ensured too much secrecy in Parliament. It has been said, for example, that there will be a plan for pension reform this week. I find it difficult to imagine that this was not discussed yesterday between the soup and the chips. Your discretion, let's call it that.....says a lot about the results you've achieved. There may not have been a Kumbaya singing yet. We remain in happy expectation of something that can be called a policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, computer piracy has continued to innovate and the political world must keep pace to avoid attacks of sometimes considerable magnitude. For example, in early December, computer researchers publicly alerted a serious flaw that affects Apache Log4j, a particularly widespread Java library. This vulnerability allows remote code execution without authentication and access to the servers concerned. This is a perfect flaw for ransomware operators who can steal personal data, prevent a site or application from working, paralyze systems and then ask for a ransom, etc. To popularize, computer researchers explained that it was as if a burglar held the key to your home and could go back there as he pleases. To address this threat, the Canadian and Quebec governments have chosen to pre-empt close to 4,000 sites. I wonder about Belgium's position to counter this risk of piracy. The Minister of Defence spoke in camera on this subject. She recalled her priority to further secure Defence. Prime Minister, can you quote the number of institutional sub-services using Log4j libraries? Have you had any contact with the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) regarding the risks posed by Log4Shell? Is it a matter of preventive closure of websites? If so, what main sites would be affected by this closure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u33	Prime Minister, on 16 December, Defense was hit by a cyber attack. The good news is that in time, the Defense Department saw someone break into her network, the bad news is that the Belgian army is the only one in the Western world known to have entered through Log4Shell. No other army, no other state has announced that this vulnerability has been used. Which brings me to the possible culprits. They talk about Russia, China, Iran and North Korea. As a minister responsible for cybersecurity, have you examined what other potential targets in our country have been victimized at government level? Have systematic screenings been carried out, or has it only been noted so quickly in the case of the Defence Department, because there is a specialised department there? I would expect a crisis cell to be set up to check with every public service whether or not it was the victim. Has the vulnerability been patched into all services so that attackers could no longer enter? Who keeps track of all this and who controls it? Is every government department or ministry itself responsible for its cybersecurity or are you watching it as a minister responsible for cybersecurity? What lessons can we draw from this and what measures will we take?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called Log4Shell vulnerability was discovered in software used by a developer to log data. Vulnerability allows attackers to execute remote code and thus abuse the privilege of the remote web server. Due to its widespread exploitation potential and the ease with which malicious attackers can use it, this vulnerability has been given the highest level of importance. On December 6, 2021, the organization that manages the software released a patch to correct the main vulnerability. The problem became known in the cybersecurity community on December 10, 2021. The new patches followed on 13, 17 and 28 December 2021 to correct additional vulnerabilities. Immediately after the public announcement of vulnerability, the CWB took several steps to inform potentially exposed actors, both in the public and private sectors, of the risks involved and to advise them on the measures to be taken to deal with them. Already on 10 December, the CCB issued the first warning via its Early Warning System and published a warning on its website and social media and on cert.be. During the weekend and the following days, the CCB, first, followed the threat, second, permanently updated advice when new software patches became available, third, sent out multiple alerts through social media channels, fourth, sent additional targeted alert messages where necessary, and finally also published a general press release. On 16 December, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium also organised an online webinar to explain the situation in more detail. This webinar has been viewed by more than 700 users. At the same time, the CWB has continuously exchanged information with private sector partners on the possible consequences for the vulnerability of Belgian infrastructure. No websites have been closed as a preventive measure. Finally, at European level, the CWB participates in the coordination of the situation via the CSIRT network. Each government institution is itself responsible for the safety of its system. The CCB did perform an internet vulnerabilities scan at well-known public IP addresses of the federal government. The scan performed is not in itself sufficient to rule out the vulnerability. It is therefore crucial that public institutions continue to test their internet systems and internal systems for the presence of vulnerability. This can be done through the public tools and methods described in the guidelines also sent out by the CCB. No reports of incidents involving significant damage due to vulnerability were made at the CCB, except for the incident at the Ministry of Defence. DOD handled the incident internally. According to the cyber-emergency plan, CERT has declared a national incident in order to be able to share the information with all relevant security services. Technical indicators from the research were anonymised and shared by the CCB with its stakeholders through the Early Warning System. For the incident with the Defense Department, there is still no way to decide on potential offenders or the purpose of the attack. Further investigation will have to prove that. A formal attribution in cyberspace is generally a very difficult and unfortunately sometimes impossible task.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u35	Prime Minister, thank you for your full response and for reviewing the history of this cyber attack and the responses systematically provided by the various services. You recalled that despite this cyber attack, no website had been closed as a preventive measure. You also recalled that each public institution was responsible for the security situation of its system. I mean, you encourage every institution to remain vigilant. On the defence side, I heard Minister Ludivine Dedonder report that she will focus on strengthening cyber capabilities in the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS). It added that it provided for the introduction of an e-Command by the end of 2022 to ensure the strengthening of the SGRS's missions in cyberspace, to ensure the development of cyber capabilities and to initiate innovations in the cyber field in Defence. This should significantly consolidate our web space, which is likely to reassure us more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Actually, you didn't reassure me. What I understand now is that every government agency is responsible for its own security. But I do not need to repeat to you that the FPS Economy or the FPS Finance does not have the same cyber capacity as the Belgian army, for example? Their different servers are likely to use the Log4j program. Of course, an IP scan by the CERT or the CCB is not enough, because it detects something completely different. So I expected a stronger strategy, whereby you would at least send experts to each department, as minister responsible for cyber security across all departments, to make a clear scan of their system, now that hackers have been known to target our country. I expect more action from you. Several cyberexperts warn that we were lucky because the army came out of the cyberattack; other services do not. We must remain vigilant. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u37	Question No 55023435C by Mr Josy Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to point out at the outset that my question dates back several months. According to our information, the ceremony planned for the repatriation of Patrice Lumumba's relic was postponed again. The "last trip" should be preceded by a solemn ceremony in Brussels, which should be attended by the Federal Prosecutor. A carte blanche fearing Belgium's failure to take responsibility and an absence of official speeches to that effect came out at the end of May 2021. A ceremony, around 30 June 2022, should also be held in Kinshasa. An official invitation to King Philip was reportedly addressed to the government. Prime Minister, do you confirm this information? When will the ceremony be postponed? What is the status of the preparation of this "commitment" in Brussels? Will the members of the Congo Commission be associated? Who will represent Belgium at this ceremony? Will the federated entities and Parliament be associated? Is there a speech planned? If so, who will pronounce it and what will it contain?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u39	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, the ceremony for the return of Patrice Lumumba's remains to his family was planned, at the request of the Congolese authorities, on 8 January 2022. I had planned to speak in an official tribute to the government in the wake of the return of the remains by the judiciary. The Congolese authorities then planned tributes in Belgium with the repatriation and new tributes to the DRC. At the request of the Congolese authorities, a few days before the ceremony, the ceremony was postponed again. We are working with Mr. Lumumba's family and the Congolese authorities to find a new date for the official surrender of the remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u40	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u41	Question No 55023535C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u42	Prime Minister, on 10 January Mr Van Peteghem announced that he was in favour of reducing VAT on energy from 21% to 6%. We welcome the fact that under pressure of mobilisation there is actually movement in this dossier. The PVDA has collected no less than 300,000 signatures, but civil society associations, such as trade unions and so on, have also worked to do so. In the meantime, we have been waiting two weeks for a decision from the government. It seems difficult to find an agreement on this, although it is urgent. It is cold bar and many people are having a hard time and cannot turn on the heating. There is therefore a real need for a reduction in VAT. If we can believe the media, in the government only your party, Open Vld, would still not like the proposal. All the other parties would be in favour of a reduction in VAT from 21% to 6%. When will there possibly be an agreement on this? Does the agreement also provide that the costs incurred by the public authorities in the event of a VAT reduction will be compensated by taxing those who currently book huge excess profits? I am, of course, thinking of ENGIE Electrabel, which is currently able to sell its electricity at towering prices and therefore makes excess profits. We have estimated that excess profit at around 2.6 billion in the years to come. The ministers would look at this gain. Can you confirm that figure and make it work? I read in the newspaper that the government is currently considering the possibility of introducing a tax shift to compensate for the reduction in VAT. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u43	Mrs Merckx, as I have pointed out several times in Parliament, we are very aware of the fact that the cost of energy is a burden on families and businesses. In the last two weeks in plenary, I have indicated the criteria for measures that have already been taken and measures that we could take. Firstly, they must be temporary, secondly, they must be aimed at those who have the greatest difficulty in paying their invoices, and thirdly, we must also look at the sustainability of public finances. As I have already explained, the government has not waited to act. Measures have thus been taken in relation to the social rate used by 20% of the population with a real benefit of 720 euros on the invoice. It's still not negligible! The totality of the measures taken by the federal government so far amounts to more than EUR 700 million, on top of mechanisms that also have an impact, in particular indexation. That system of automatic indexation works. People see that there is an indexation of their wages and of the benefits they receive. On additional measures, the Energy and Finance Ministers, which play a coordinating role, draw up different ideas. The only reason why no decision has yet been taken is because this is a rather technical matter, with very large amounts of money involved. It therefore seems very logical to me that the proposals should be worked out in very detail in order to avoid any engagements that may have unwanted effects. It's understandable that people expect answers quickly. It is therefore up to us to respond to this as soon as possible. The CREG is in the process of analysing the excess profits. There is already nuclear interest, for example. Moreover, it is too simple to claim that these companies are now making extra profits because they can sell their energy at higher prices. Most of the energy produced by nuclear power stations, for example, is sold on the basis of long-term contracts, where the price has been determined much earlier. It is not just one particular producer. Several producers are active on the Belgian market, including, for example, producers active only in the field of renewable energy. The government is looking at the different options. I would like to refute your plea that the government is doing nothing and has not made any decisions. The decisions on the social tariff are decisions that have been taken almost a year ago and that have a very decisive impact on the group where the impact is greatest, namely the users of the social tariff. It is an intervention of more than EUR 700. Compared to other countries, we are taking very far-reaching measures for that group. That does not, of course, exclude the possibility of additional measures being taken. However, they must first be properly analysed and examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I didn't say you didn't do anything. Although I did not mention it in my question, I confirm that measures have been taken. I do believe that everyone agrees that these are not enough. The higher energy bills currently affect all families, especially not just those who benefit from the social rate. You say the matter is very complicated. However, the reduction of VAT on energy is a rather simple measure, which is also easy to implement. That is why, as I understand it, this measure is being studied most seriously. In relation to nuclear interest rates and overprofits, the CREG shall carry out an analysis. Part of the electricity has already been sold at previous prices. I would like to point out that our study service has taken that into account and has taken a very cautious estimate, obviously on the basis of a sale at current prices on the energy market. That's a hell of a piste. I heard you were thinking of a tax shift, but you didn't say anything about that in your reply. We must ensure that this is at least essential for us that the costs, caused by a VAT reduction, are paid by those who book profits and excess profits. With the PVDA and with the people of civil society, we will continue to exert pressure. A decision must be taken urgently to reduce energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u45	Mr Prime Minister, we spoke a few months ago about the committee responsible for public administration. You then referred to a European directive which had been changed. What is the state of play on the file? In a European study, our country ranks 119 of 134 countries in the field of public administration. That's not very good, to say the least. Transparency is very important for democratic control, however, because without transparency there is no democratic control. So it is very important that we work on this. After all, it is a fundamental right. Released public information should support the public debate. Have the members of the board of directors of the committee responsible for public administration already been appointed? What's the status? What principles were used in this regard? What concrete steps have been taken? What is the timing and what prospects are there? If those members have not yet been appointed, why is that? Mr Prime Minister, I recall that during the previous discussion we discussed the possibility of making the opinion of the committee responsible for public administration binding. Your coalition partner spoke very positively about this. My colleagues Peter De Roover and Frieda Gijbels and I have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject. What will you do? Are you behind that? Will you take action to ensure that our country disappears from the tail of the ranking? After all, it is certainly not a good idea that this openness of administration would not be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u46	Mr Prime Minister, Mr Depoorter has already outlined the situation. Since September, the Commission has had to suspend access to administrative documents (CTB) because there is still no appointment decision to appoint or re-appoint the members. There are therefore no longer any opinions on the application of public access legislation. The CTB was able to work on the basis of the continuity of the public service for a while, but in the end it decided to stop working on 1 September. As a result, a person who wishes to apply for documents from an administration but who is refused access to them is not entitled to an appeal. If one were to appeal, one would once again have to deal with the same government that had previously refused the request for public access. At the moment, there is not a single stick behind the door to bring an administration back to its decision. When discussing the policy papers in November, I already asked the Minister for the Interior about this. She then replied that the proposal for candidates was submitted to the Council of Ministers and that the KB would be there soon. She also said that, of course, the CTB can only carry out its mandate after the new members have taken the oath. In the meantime, we're two months late, and I'd like to go back to the state of play. The Flemish Association of Journalists receives complaints from journalists about this. On 20 January 2022, the VVJ tweeted the following: "Openability of governance a fundamental right'? Not so Mr Depoorter already referred to an article on this subject that was published in De Standaard today. Prime Minister, I have a few questions about this. Is it true that the CTB stopped its action? Have you received any complaints about this? If so, how many? When can we expect the new appointment decision? How will you ensure that the right to public access to management can be exercised as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u47	First of all, I would like to stress that the constitutional right to public access to administration is, of course, fully valid in our country. The federal administrative authorities are, of course, obliged to provide copies of the administrative documents, in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by law. It doesn't take a commission. In fact, the committee itself decided to suspend its operation for the time being, pending the re-appointment of a number of members after the expiry of the deadline. In principle, it could have worked even longer in order to ensure continuity of service. In this respect, I have indeed received a number of complaints. However, I can now inform you that I have submitted the draft Royal Decree on the reappointment of the Commission's Public Administration Division for access to administrative documents to my colleagues in the government. This means that we will hopefully be able to take that decision quickly and publish it so that the Public Administration Department can resume its work. To this end, applications had to be requested from various bodies. As I asked in a previous question, there is a legal gap with regard to some of the Commission's access to administrative documents. In addition to the Publicity Department, which is the subject of this discussion, there is also a Reuse department on paper. However, the legal basis for the functioning of the Reuse section is no longer present. However, we did not want to wait any longer for the re-appointment of the Public Administration Department, but a review of the legislation on public administration and the committee in particular is pressing for it. In this context, other proposals will also be considered which could further enhance transparency. This is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u48	Prime Minister, this is almost a copy-paste of the answer you gave two months ago. I expected more work to have happened. You said that you would submit the draft royal decree to your colleagues and then request the applications. I therefore note that this has not yet happened. You also said that the fundamental right of public administration is guaranteed and that there is no need for a committee. However, I myself, as a Member of Parliament, have asked questions to a number of federal government institutions, which I consider essential for my parliamentary work. However, each time, both the FAGG and the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, the two organizations in which I called for this disclosure, refer to the Commission for access to administrative documents. The fundamental right is therefore not guaranteed today. You also refer to a European directive which would create the legal vacuum. Experts doubt that, according to them, you can perfectly appoint those members of the board of directors of the Commission for access to administrative documents. So, Prime Minister, you really do not have the appointment on your priority to-do list. However, in the new political culture, which you are so proud of, public access, transparency and re-use of documents is essential. I note that there is some doubt, uncertainty or divergence between the different government parties. After all, it is always the Green Party that you, in your capacity as Liberal Prime Minister, are firing fire here. However, the steps have not yet been taken. Today, in our country, we really do rule behind closed doors and with the secrecy of documents. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u49	Mr Prime Minister, I also hope that this will happen quickly and that a decision on appointment will be taken soon. After all, I agree with what Mrs Depoorter has said. It is very important for transparency and decision-making that citizens and organisations can assert their right to public administration. You say that the legislation needs to be revised. Our group will, of course, fully support that review. After all, a Canadian NGO, Centre for Law and Democracy, has made a ranking of countries that best guarantee the right to information. I note that Belgium ranks 119 out of 134 places in that ranking, so at the bottom of the list, just after countries like Saudi Arabia, Mozambique and Kazakhstan. That finding is very embarrassing. We must therefore make an effort to make public administration more accessible and to anchor it more legally. Our group has also tabled a legislative proposal in which, among other things, we make the CTB a real appeal body, so that it can also give binding opinions and become a real decision-making body. Our bill has already received opinions from the Flemish Association of Journalists and the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights (FIRM). The FIRM published opinions on this issue on its website yesterday. It makes twelve recommendations to increase public access to administration. I hope that all the recommendations will be considered so that we can find a better framework for the Commission to access administrative documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u50	Mr Prime Minister, this question is thematically in line with what has just been discussed here. How can we do better? How can the government ensure that they meet the quality standards? The first reflex is always to see how we do it and it is also interesting to compare how other countries do it. In the ranking of the Centre for Law and Democracy, which studies how the right to information is guaranteed, we are under Saudi Arabia, Mozambique and Kazakhstan. These countries apparently manage better than Belgium to share information. That's not good. A second study of the European anti-corruption and transparency watchdog GRECO has recently been published, which makes recommendations every so often. This study refers to the 2020 Recommendation and looks at its effectiveness two years later. The GRECO notes that this has happened very little and that only 2 out of 22 recommendations have been answered. That's a very bad score. You get less than 2 out of 10 with the policy you conduct. It's serious business, isn't it? For example, a recommendation is about ensuring integrity for persons in high office within the government. The GRECO says that there is no coordinated strategy. There is also no question of asking for a deontological framework for cabinet employees. There must be a mechanism of integrity promotion for people exercising high positions in executive power. There isn't. The law on public administration is also not being implemented. Kabinets must keep their files properly up-to-date and make them available. A first step has been taken to make the archives public, which our group has also supported, but that is far from enough. There is no adequate code of conduct for cabinet employees. Conflicts of interest between Cabinets have not been adequately addressed. The revolving door policy, whereby people from the government switch to other functions, was not addressed. Many of the issues raised by the European watchdog were therefore not addressed. Some of them inherited you from the past, but you indicated with your government that you had a different tonality and ambition. So my question is simple. When is this gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u51	The government has indeed taken note of the interim report. The GRECO works with different cycles and periodically checks whether the previous recommendations have been implemented. This is the first report of the fifth cycle, the next report is expected in the middle of 2023. The government takes the conclusions of the report seriously and the Minister of Justice has already asked all the colleagues concerned to follow up on the recommendations. I myself will also discuss with the relevant ministers, including those of Democratic Renewal and Civil Service cases, how we can make more coordinated implementation of the recommendations. The judgment of the GRECO is indeed strict. Anyone who reads the report in detail will find that there are actions in progress on almost all the recommendations. The coalition agreement also contains clear points of reference with the GRECO recommendations, such as the lobby register, the whistleblower scheme or a better arrangement of cabinet archives. So we are working on it, but we are not yet at the level required by GRECO of us. We achieve the lower score because we have not yet achieved full implementation for all the parts we work on. But it's work in progress. It is our firm ambition to be able to present enormous progress against the next evaluations. The fight against corruption can only be credible as Belgium at European and international level if we also take minute action to put our regulations in order. It is therefore absolutely a priority for us to implement the ongoing plans. We're working on it, but it needs to go faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u52	Prime Minister, I think that is a good answer and it is correct that you refer to the coalition agreement. There are cases in progress. It is good that you show ambition and indicate that you want to change a number of things. I have two comments to make. Firstly, I do not think a reference to the coalition agreement is enough. If you read the GRECO report correctly, you will see that steps must also be taken in a number of other areas, which are not mentioned in the coalition agreement. I would therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this. Secondly, you express the ambition to make serious progress against the next progress report. Ideally, the notion of serious progress should be quantified. Now you're getting 2 out of 10, and I'm assuming you're aiming at at least an award and want to achieve that score as soon as possible. By quantifying the desired progress, this can also be properly monitored. To do that, I think it would be a good idea to make agreements in your government about who's following up the file. I hear you mention the Minister of Justice, Mr Van Quickenborne, the Minister of Civil Service, Mrs De Sutter, and Mrs Verlinden as Minister for Democratic Renewal. I think you should address her as Minister of the Interior, too. After all, many of the recommendations are specifically about the police. In any case, it is important to appoint at least one coordinator, whether you are Minister Van Quickenborne, who you mentioned first. That's convenient for us, too. That is how we know who we can talk about in the Chamber. I hope, of course, that I may record the file with you, but you are free to make other decisions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u53	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to return to the events of this Sunday. Some 50 0000 demonstrators, according to the police, and more according to the organizers, as usual, travelled the streets of Brussels to protest the restrictions related to the covid-19 pandemic. This demonstration was marked by numerous acts of violence against law enforcement officials, as well as journalists. Like you and others, the political world has condemned these facts – and that is very good. Beyond that, we must look at the number of people present and the reason for their participation. There were, of course, extremists and fanatics whom nothing would ever convince, but there were also concerned citizens, whom we must be able to answer. When we listen to their demands, we realize that it is not so much the content of the measures as the way they are adopted that is often a problem. It is important to remember that lack of transparency or lack of public debate, as well as broken confidence, are at the root of Sunday's demands. Do we have to remember that, for several months, the adoption of these measures – which some consider to be liberticides – has been carried out within the framework of the Pandemic Law? Our Parliament, a democratic and representative assembly of citizens, is therefore deprived of its essential right to take measures restricting freedom and to control the acts of the executive. The whole political world must become aware of the stalling that is taking place. Prime Minister, this escalation of protests and violence is worrying, even more so in the wake of the debates that have taken place this week in the Public Health Committee, which may lead to a vaccination obligation for the entire population. It is therefore essential to send a message of trust to our fellow citizens. As a result, Prime Minister, beyond the violence that you have rightly condemned, how do you look at last Sunday's protests? What message will you bring to these people? What answers will you give to the claims about the lack of democratic debate about the measures adopted? Do these events ultimately not convince you that the current model of the Concertation Committee and the Pandemic Law is not enough to create accession and is not democraticly satisfactory?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u54	Mr De Smet, freedom of expression is a foundation of our society. Everyone is free to express their opinions and to demonstrate. An open dialogue is also one of the foundations of the functioning of our country characterized by its diversity. It has too often been seen as a disadvantage when I really see it as a strength. But to do so, we need to talk and listen to each other without resorting to violence. It is a pity that this demonstration was taken hostage by some of the demonstrators who were clearly not there to dialogue or express some concern, but only to attack the law enforcement forces and break the ground. I am shocked that Brussels has become a gathering place for all sorts of extremist movements. I understand the frustration of many Brusselsers, who have had enough. It is obvious that another part of those present intended to demonstrate peacefully. They weren't there to break or attack the police. I take this moment to show my support to the police officers who were there. They do a particularly ungrateful job trying to maintain order. It is fair that anyone who commits violence should be apprehended and punished. You say that one of the demands of those present without intent of violence is the absence of democratic debate. Honestly, I'm surprised you're talking like that. For two years, this democratic debate has existed in this Parliament, in other parliaments and between different governments. When we introduced the pandemic law, it was to have this kind of debate in Parliament. When we look at the measures that have been taken and compare them with those of other countries, we find that they are precisely characterized by their reasonableness and humane character. You may still disagree but let's look at the numbers then. An index you may know, the Stringency Index, developed by Oxford University, compares the measures in force in different countries. Look at this ranking and you will observe that Belgium, almost for the entire duration, has taken much less severe and more stable measures than other countries. This does not mean that the issues and concerns are not legitimate. I think we need to talk and give answers to people who have legitimate concerns, not those who are there to shout at the plot, to tell false stories that, from a scientific point of view, are not clear. If you have any concerns about vaccines, talk to your doctor. If you doubt what action has been taken, talk to people who have the scientific knowledge that is the basis for decision-making. I would like to emphasize that. All our decisions are prepared by expert groups, which are managed by a covid police station. All the documents on which we rely are open. I would also like to point out that, yes, there were tens of thousands of demonstrators, and that we must listen to those who were there with good intentions. We have to talk to them. But at the same time, there is a very large silent majority in our country that is doing what is necessary. Last week, more than 400,000 Belgians were vaccinated with a booster. In total, more than 9 million people in Belgium have taken the necessary steps to protect themselves, and also, in an act of solidarity, to protect others. Nine million Belgians have chosen to be vaccinated. Immunization remains the best protection, not only for oneself, but also for others. Often, these others are much more vulnerable. I would therefore not like this vast majority to be shunned by a part of the population that has doubts. The last thing you have to do is divide each other. I think it's a policy that doesn't work. We never did that. I would also like to use this time to thank the nearly 9 million Belgians who, often without much talk, without complaining, did what was necessary. As far as the measures are concerned, I will be very clear. Current measures are relatively weak compared to other countries. But we're not going to keep them one day too much. For example, I believe that for the time being, the CST is necessary; but we are not going to use it one day too much. As soon as we believe that measures no longer have added value, we will repeal them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic666x.u55	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as I am concerned, I distinguish between the substance of the measures and the way in which they are adopted. On the substance, very regularly, even since the opposition we have sometimes supported unpopular measures because we knew that it was the only thing to do. On the method, you have just compared the measurements to what is done elsewhere and show that in Belgium they are sometimes less burdensome than elsewhere, which is true. How can we explain that there is still this drop-out of the population? Indeed, among those who went to protest, there are not only extremists. There are reasonable but simply worried people. Nevertheless, even if your measurements were the best in the world, there is an obvious finding of stalling partly due to the method. I refer to the three Codecos which followed each other at the end of the year with sometimes unreadable deaths, then the Codeco which decided to close the culture and which was punished by the Council of State because proportionality was not there. We have - and I involve everyone, including regional governments - a lack of pedagogy. It's something you never talk about. You're talking about vaccination. Why do the authorities seem so tiring to establish and demonstrate the number of lives saved by the vaccine? We don't call him back enough. We should do whole campaigns to recall that, from memory, between 8,000 and 9,000 Belgians have seen their lives saved by vaccination. This is a European estimate. Why is it not enough to recall that the vaccine, besides preventing very much serious forms, also has an effect on transmission even if it is limited? The political world has a real sluggishness to take on completely scientific arguments. If we add to that decision-making - and I maintain but I am not going to repeat that the Codeco and Pandemic Law tandem is not working and does not strengthen democratic membership - we come to a whole that is part of a kind of democratic stall, even though obviously no one has ever had to deal with a crisis with so much uncertainty and that it is at the end of the game that we will have to take stock. Thank you for listening.
