ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marie-Christine Marghem, Christophe Bombled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u3	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u4	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give a general consideration as a lead, I would like to give a brief answer to a number of technical elements that have been discussed, even though some have already been discussed in detail in committee. Firstly, Mr Warmoes, the greater depth has certainly been taken into account in the calculations. That's what I said in committee. Secondly, on the question of how to proceed if ENGIE were no longer there, I would refer to my explanation in committee that the joint and several liability was explicitly determined. Thirdly, the interest rates, as you can read in the draft, will be reviewed at each revision. These can be adjusted at any time, which has an impact on the commissions. As regards the reimbursement of EUR 1.8 billion, I refer to what Mrs Buyst has just said. Of course, one has nothing to do with the other. The two are linked, but the fact that high dividends are paid does not in itself have an impact on the reimbursement. The committee also discussed the reimbursement schedule in detail. After 2025, it is still EUR 1.8 billion, which is in fact only a very small residual amount, compared to the amount that will be repaid over the next five years. At the end of this reign there will never have been any money left in the account, which was also explicitly the intention of the design. Mr. Wollants, you've made some comparisons, but they're limp. If you read Article 15 (5) of the draft law, particularly in the first point, concerning assets and investments, which have to meet the minimum social and environmental criteria, human rights and good governance, you will know that the comparisons that you thought you might be able to recover on social media are absolutely flawed in the light of the legal provisions. More generally, we are on the eve of the longest, most expensive and most delicate shipyard our country has ever known, ladies and gentlemen, with the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the disposal of waste. This waste consists of operating and decommissioning waste and irradiated fuel samples. This yard will last until 2135 and can cost up to 41 billion euros in nominal value, estimated today. Today it is clear that not only our generations, but also future generations, will not have to pay the sky-high bill. The draft law before us anchors the polluter-pays principle. That is the nuclear operator in this case. The basic philosophy is simple, it is the best guarantee of the availability of the necessary funds by the nuclear operator and its strong control. That basic philosophy is now enshrined in the law and puts an end to decades of uncertainty. As Mrs Dierick said, the financial management of that yard is only one aspect of the story. There is also the other aspect, the physical yard, on which decisions still have to be taken. The fact remains that there is no decision yet on the final destination of nuclear waste and that even the investigation has not led to a clear answer. The waste remains radioactive for hundreds of thousands of years and must therefore be disposed of in the safest possible conditions. Difficult choices must be made. What are we going to do with all this radioactive and hazardous waste? How can we safely store them? Which location should we choose? Many of us will not see the start of waste storage operations. Yet there is an urgent need to open the discussion on their destination. It must take place with the involvement of civil society. Moreover, it is the stakes of the project that will be discussed after it. There has been a lot of talk here about energy policy in all its facets, but let us talk today about the facet of energy policy before us today, the management of the huge waste heap. A sustainable energy policy ensures that the Belgians do not pay for the costs, but that we do have a say in what happens to nuclear waste. I would also like to draw closer to what Mr Cogolati said at the end of his speech: a step still needs to be taken after this stage. We remain in the case of the Synatom Fund, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Electrabel. We also need to think about the most appropriate structure to manage these funds in the spirit of the law. I have heard you speak of a legally independent structure of ENGIE, but also of the political sphere. We had this discussion in committee. It must continue to determine how to guarantee these funds on an ongoing basis, also in the case of outsourcing. That is why the final section of this bill seeks to enrich the reflection on this subject. Mrs. Fonck, you referred to my radio interview this morning. I will therefore repeat what I said in this interview: I am not agitating, but I am acting – not only in this dossier, but also in others. Each of you has expressed a positive opinion on this draft in general terms. Many of you have also called for attention to be paid to a number of aspects which, in your view, deserve more or better attention, which need to be further developed or given direction for the follow-up. However, many of you have expressed a positive opinion and have also called for a unanimous vote following the unanimous vote in committee. I would like to accept those words of thanks on behalf of my team, on behalf of my administration, but also on behalf of the coalition partners. We have here today a draft which, in general terms, leads to an appreciation, but we may also need to reflect on the way in which we have dealt with it. You've been involved in that yourself. First of all, we listened to the experts. This draft was launched with an opinion from the Commission on Nuclear Facilities, chaired by Mr Dufresne. We took their advice. We then continued to work with the committee on their advice. There are points from their advice that we have followed, there are other points that we have not followed or that we have otherwise replied to. We have always done so in consultation with the committee. We have also been able to count on the committee to draft this draft. The secretariat of the committee, provided by my administration, which has actually built up many years of expertise in this field, was also involved. Secondly, we have based this draft on facts and figures. We have looked at what is actually the amounts we are talking about, what has already been securated today, and what is the risk that has not been securated. What exactly is the structure of these loans and investments? What's exactly where? We've been able to figure that out and we've been able to reflect on that. On this basis, things have come up in this draft, for example on capital decisions. Thirdly, we have shown great respect for each other's positions, for each other's interests, and we have found a general interest, namely the general interest that we are facing with the longest, most delicate and most expensive yard ever and that we want the polluter to pay that invoice. That is why I would like to conclude by thanking the people behind it. Firstly, I would like to thank the Commission for its nuclear facilities. The expertise of its chairman, Mr Dufresne, was very welcome. He was ill during this work for a while and although he is retired, he has spent a lot of his time on this design. I would also like to thank the parties involved. First of all, I thank the operator himself, ENGIE Electrabel, but I also thank Luminus for the openness. It is because they have given access to facts and figures for the justification that we have come up with a number of solutions. Thirdly, I would also like to thank you, Parliament. I have been questioned several times in committee about, among other things, the committee's opinion. So you have shown a very great commitment on this subject. The urgency was also strongly felt here. I also particularly appreciated the fact that there was a hearing with the chairman of the committee, who gave very meaningful input on how the follow-up could take place. To approve this law is one thing, and to work with it is another. That will certainly have to be followed up further. It was a long-term work, but the result is before us today. It is a very good thing for our country. There are certainly points on which we can work, but there is nothing wrong with small steps, if enough is put in the right direction. I look forward to the next exchange of views that we can have on this, when the RBs come, when the review is on the way and when the negotiations with ENGIE Electrabel are completed. Successes must be celebrated. It is therefore important to consider this today, so that we can work on the next steps with full energy from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u5	Madam Minister, in the future we will be talking and thinking about the passage on investment. In committee, you have also indicated that there is still more than enough time to amend the law in this area. I agree with you that small steps are important. Perhaps we will have to take further steps in this area within a few years to secure capital for the energy of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u6	Madam Minister, with regard to the hearing with the President of the Commission on Nuclear Facilities, I agree with your concerns. That was very educational for us. Mr Dufresne and his colleagues then debated with us in an open spirit. You say that the interest rates will be reviewed at every review. That's a good thing. I am not going to repeat what I have already said, but my point was, now that such large profits are being made, the time has come to get the maximum out of Electrabel, because we do not know what the future will bring. We have therefore tabled amendments based on the precautionary principle in order to be more vigilant at the moment and to be more cautious in the future. You relate to the EUR 1.8 billion that still has to be repaid after 2025. That is certainly not the majority of the total amount, but it is not nothing either. We naturally support the proposal and see it as a step in the right direction. We also hope that further steps will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u7	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u8	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2640/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2640/5) The bill has 27 articles. The draft law has 27 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u9	• 16 – Thierry Warmoes (2640/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u10	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u11	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Daniel Senesael, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u12	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have just discussed how to pay for the management of radioactive waste and the dismantling of our nuclear power plants. We have just closed this basic polluter-pays principle. But why? For landfilling or for another method of radioactive waste management which commits Belgium over a period of 300 000 years and therefore several billion euros? For this reason, clause 5 of the bill under discussion here provides for effective public participation. The Group of the Greens would really like to welcome this public participation, which is essential. Again, this radioactive waste management involves not only our generation, but several hundred future generations. Attention, it seems to us important to go back to three basic principles which, in our view, should guide the management of radioactive waste. The first is really the independence and impartiality of the steering body. I think we must be able to admit that in recent years we have faced a national body, ONDRAF, which was a bit of a judge and a part of thinking about the future management of this radioactive waste produced for hundreds of thousands of years. For this reason, in other European countries, such as France, Sweden or Great Britain, there is an independent committee, composed mainly of scientists, which advises the executive but also the legislature on the most up-to-date and up-to-date methods currently being sought to manage these radioactive wastes. The second principle is that of accurate, scientific and qualitative information. Once again, I'll be cash. If we are today questioning a citizen on the street about the worst of radioactive waste management methods, I honestly think I can say that he will not have much input to give. Indeed, after more than forty years of fundamental research, particularly in the ADES laboratory in the north of the country, it is known that there is no ideal solution meeting all the safety criteria, in any case not for as long as these 300 000 years of life of highly radioactive waste. It is clear that we have built nuclear power plants without any real provision for waste management. It's kind of like, today, we decide to build a house without providing for toilets, or a place for garbage. This is a particularly technical issue. It is therefore essential to provide all information independently, with scientific and objective guarantees, to the population. I come to the last principle, that of recovery. I am optimistic, but I want to remain humble about the solutions that could be found by science in the decades to come. It must be realized that, until the 1980s, Belgium was dumping its radioactive waste in the North Sea. Of course, they did not have a long lifespan. But it was also a question of throwing barrels of radioactive waste at the sea. Since then, this practice has been banned. It is rooted in international law. No one here, no matter what the party, would dare to pretend that we should dump that garbage in the North Sea. But that happened just 40 years ago. I would therefore like to invite you to show this collective humility in relation to scientific research in the future. It is really important to preserve this principle of recovery. If we head down in a purely passive solution that will ultimately be irreversible, we risk chaining future generations for more than 300,000 years to a solution that could be very serious for the environment and the preservation of our planet. That is why I believe that we must anchor this principle of recovery in the debates and in the public participation in this collective search for the least bad solutions for managing this waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has committed itself to taking the issue of radioactive waste and spent fuel management together, in order to promote the polluter pays principle and to ensure safety in the short, medium and long term, and even in the very long term. This commitment is reflected in the project now before us, and – such as the ambitious revision of the legislative framework for nuclear provisions, which we have just discussed – is part of a structured, safe and coherent approach. In recognition of the government's work on this issue, I will simply highlight three of the major aspects of this project. First, of course, we welcome the legal basis provided by the text, enabling the necessary policy for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, based on the recommendations of ONDRAF. The challenges in this area are of great importance. The program that will be developed will have to meet the requirements that this file requires. Secondly, we can only welcome the incorporation into legislation of principles designed to govern this policy and that which is being pursued in the future. As I said, this is a demanding matter, involving the companies that are polluting and emitting highly hazardous waste to be managed safely and tend to minimize their production. There is also a need for sound, re-readable, appropriate and intellectually justifiable policies. These conditions for rational and safe management, we find them in this project. Thirdly, I will point out that the text will encourage the initiation of public participation processes. We are pleased to note that, in accordance with the Government Agreement, the initiatives taken will go beyond mere consultation. We will give our assent to this text jointly advocated by the Ministers of Economy and Energy, as we did in committee. In conclusion, I would like to point out that our group will pay particular attention to the events, the starting point of which is this text. Much has been prepared, everything is now to be done and projects will have to be committed urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u14	Madam President, we will support the draft law because it deals with two important issues. Firstly, it provides a legal basis for the recommendations made by the NRAS on the so-called nuclear passive, nuclear dumps in the Kempen, a large part of which still needs to be cleaned up. On the other hand, it provides a legal basis for the public inquiry which the government intends to organise on the disposal of nuclear waste in the deep underground. As Mr Cogolati said, this problem has been unresolved for decades. The nuclear power plants were built in the 1970s, early 1980s, but the waste problem has still not been solved, the waste is still not definitively recovered. Much research has already been carried out in Mol, in particular whether the storage in the Boom clay layer is sufficiently deep; according to some experts it is likely to be necessary to store the waste in the deeper Ieperian clay layer. We believe it is important that this debate be conducted, because it has a major social impact on nuclear waste. The advocates of nuclear waste are getting over that rather quickly. Moreover, the discussion should be extended to the general public and should not be limited to technical discussions in back rooms in view of the important social impact. We therefore support the public inquiry and, therefore, this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u15	Madam President, few subjects will have such an impact on the generations that follow us, as on the management of nuclear waste. As long as I can remember, the debate on the optimal solution for the management of nuclear waste is raging. I remember from my teenage age in the seventies the images of tons of garbage dumped in the Great and the Atlantic. A few years later, around 1995, there was a panic when people realized that these barrels were leaking and threatened the underwater world. Those moments of my teenage years, which are still clearly in my mind, indicate the importance of managing radioactive waste. I am accused in the region of not knowing the difference between low and high radioactive waste. I know the difference, but whether it is low- or high-radioactive waste, it is always important to respect the precautionary principle. I do not want a small child to find out in 100 years' time that we have made the wrong decision on radioactive waste management in 2022. I do not want her to be explained that this has happened without any discussion with her grandparents and family. That debate is therefore very important, and that is what this draft law is about. If we want to have an in-depth discussion on this, which I think is very important, it must be done in a very educational way, but that may be my background. It is very important that, despite the fact that it is a technical dossier, we continue to analyse facts and that this is done in an educational way. I am therefore a requesting party to the citizen inquiry and I am therefore very pleased that, as the Minister said in committee, we are involving a foundation such as the King Baudouin Foundation in order to make the questioning as educational as possible. It is also good, as the Minister said in committee, that it will not only be the expertise of the Foundation, but also the experience of the G1000 platform, for example. That is one of the reasons why I felt it was important to take the floor in connection with the text before us. Madam Minister, I also remember from the committee that, in your view, such a public participatory process could be structurally anchored. I'm happy about that. Like Mr Senesael, I see this initiative as a starting point, but certainly not an end point. The management of nuclear waste will take a great deal of further steps in the future. Expertise and scientific research are needed; the debate needs serenity and the citizen search must be accompanied by the necessary education. The draft is a beginning, which we very much support, which is why I wanted to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u16	Madam President, I will be brief, but I thought it was important to take the floor, especially after Mr Cogolati's speech. Mrs van der Straeten, I have regularly questioned you on this subject over the past two years, just as I did with your predecessor, Mrs Marghem. It is a very good thing that it finally happened, because there was an infringement procedure. No one has said anything about this, but it is a good thing that this draft law, which provides a framework, finally starts. However, there is something I still do not understand, even after more than 20 years in politics. Even tonight, I heard the Minister say that experts and the committee responsible must always be heard when it comes to the nuclear commission, but, Mr Cogolati, let me just read out from the NIRAS' strategic draft plan: 'The technical solution for the long-term management of high-activity or long-lived waste is, according to the draft plan, a system of geological disposal on Belgian territory. Because it is a strategic design plan that underpins a very first decision on the type of final destination, namely a system of geological disposal, without choice of where, how and when it is realized, the assessment of the environmental impact still contains very few details. Only after the federal government's decision on the final destination will more concrete plans and decisions follow on where, how and when." We are going to approve this bill, Mr Cogolati, you know that, but are you really more competent now? That is how I understand it when I hear you speak. You have more expertise than the NIRAS, because unlike Mrs Buyst, who was a little more neutral in that respect, you have once again expressed very strong doubts about the geological final disposal. Of course, this is somewhat camouflaged by the fact that the public survey and the reversibility are given. We do not oppose this, Madam Minister, because in the next few decades there will be a lot of resolutions on this matter. I find it a little presumptuous that what NIRAS says is simply not mentioned and that it is simply said that the population has more expertise than the experts of NIRAS. I find that all very strange. In one file, the experts are sacrosanct, and in the other there is no mention of the experts. It's all very strange!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches. I have already said something about this draft. It is remarkable that the two are now on the agenda together. With the national dialogue we are organising here, we want to give the whole country a say - the citizens, industry, academia and experts - in finding a definitive solution. Indeed, difficult choices must be made. As I said before, what are we going to do? Many of us will not see the start of waste storage operations, but at some point some will see it. As Mrs Buyst pointed out, it is important that a good explanation can be given at that point and that it is certainly known that the decisions have been taken in a good way. I would like to pick up on something that Mrs Buyst has said, namely the educational aspect, which I very much support and which has triggered me. Mrs Buyst, I visited your region at the opening of Tabloo, which is the documentation centre and the demonstration room following the local partnerships in the region on the storage of category A waste. There is a very educational approach to radioactivity in all its aspects, i.e. not only from electricity production but also in the medical sector. The various solutions already in place are also being considered, but also the road still to be taken, not only on the purely technical aspect but also on the more philosophical aspect, such as the question of what time is or how tradition happens. That is a very special aspect of the debate here too. Today we have archives with a tradition of about 200 years. However, we must provide knowledge in this area over many thousands of years. Therefore, it is my intention or wish, which may be continued by the person who will be sitting in my seat after me, to anchor the process in a structural way for the sake of transparency and accessibility of data. I would also like to thank Parliament for allowing the urgency of the draft, so that it can be effectively approved by you before the recess. In this way, we can start the search before the end of the year, so as not to waste any more time in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u18	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u19	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2749/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2749/3) The bill has 8 articles. The draft law contains 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u20	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u21	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Daniel Senesael, Malik Ben Achour, Mélissa Hanus, Patrick Prévot, Hervé Rigot, Laurence Zanchetta, Christophe Lacroix, Leslie Leoni, Kris Verduyckt, Karin Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u22	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1376/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1376/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u23	Madam President, I refer to the written report. If you will allow me, I shall keep the floor on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u24	You are indeed the first to be registered. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, not a day goes by without news about PFAS. This morning I made a sum of everything that has been published about PFAS in the last thirty days, via Belga.press, and this resulted in 841 articles, which shows that much is said and written on this subject. We have not yet come to the final words. PFAS, a group of 6,000 chemical compounds, are also called forever chemicals because they are so poorly degraded and accumulate in the environment, the water.................................................................................................................................................. We are constantly getting PFAS through cosmetics, pesticides, flame retardants, clothing and also food packaging, the subject of the text before us. At the beginning of May it was announced that all Europeans are exposed to an alarmingly high level of pollutants. This was the conclusion of a European biomonitoring initiative, a project in which scientists from the VITO and the University of Antwerp were closely involved. Of more than 13,000 citizens from 28 European countries, urine or blood samples were tested for pollutants. For several substances the measurement values were too high and, according to the researchers, for these substances we can no longer exclude risks of harmful health effects. Many people, including children, have seen very high exposure to plasticizers, additives added to plastics, despite the strict regulation of the substance, which is harmful to reproduction. A lot of PFAS have also been found in the blood of researched young people. Up to a quarter of young people are exposed to concentrations where negative health effects can no longer be excluded with sufficient certainty. According to scientists, this data underlines the need to ban all PFAS in principle, especially since substitutes have similar worrying properties to the regulated PFAS. Studies stress that there is a link between the accumulation of these PFAS in the blood and the development of a lot of human health disorders, including cancers, a worse functioning of the liver and thyroid, light and small newborns, obesity, a reduced immune response to vaccines and subsequent puberty. We know that many food packaging and single use cutlery are treated with PFAS. Analyses have shown that the PFAS content was 60 times higher than the reference value used in Europe. Food and food packaging are therefore considered to be one of the main sources of human exposure to PFAS. The text before us calls on the government to play an ambitious role at European level and to work on it itself if it does not succeed at that level. It is no secret that this text should have gone a lot further for the ecologists, but we welcome and support every step towards a healthier environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, for more than a year now PFAS has been at the heart of the news. The Zwijndrecht scandal, where very high pollution values were observed in the vicinity of the 3M plant, placed the health hazards of these toxic chemicals at the heart of the public debate. Since then, numerous analyses have been undertaken in various Belgian provinces in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. However, the problem of PFAS is not new. It should not be forgotten that these substances have been produced and used on a large scale for decades and that, while effective restrictions have occurred, notably through the European REACH regulation, the ownership of the persistence of these substances, which is their nickname of "eternal chemical substances", has led to their accumulation in both the environment and the human body. Because of this, contamination with PFAS, even in minimal quantities, can unfortunately be described as almost universal. For example, the results presented in 2019 by the French national public health agency, according to which PFAS contamination is widespread among the French population. It should also be borne in mind that the pollution of Zwijndrecht is not a single case. In the Netherlands, the USA, Italy, factories have for years released particularly toxic PFAS into the environment, contaminating water, land, air, and in doing so, local populations in which the number of serious diseases significantly increased and marked entire regions. As the ubiquitous presence of these substances became increasingly evident, while as time passed, scandalous cases of pollution were revealed, scientists discovered new pathologies that could be associated with them and then strengthened their certainty about existing knowledge: cancers, endocrine disorders, hypothyroidism, increased cholesterol levels, effects on the foetus, complications of pregnancy or delays in puberty, these are the health problems that we can now link to exposure to PFAS. That is why our group has been making the fight against this form of chemical pollution a priority for almost two years. At the beginning of October 2020, we tabled a first motion for a resolution, which was the subject of our committee's work in the first part of 2021, leading to a vote in plenary on 1 July. We therefore called for stricter rules to regulate these dangerous chemicals, for greater transparency and for greater control over the production and use of PFAS. As we have done so, we have embarked on the proposal that we are dealing with today. The long work done on the first text has provided us with many lessons, on the one hand, on the problematic nature of the environmental and health PFAS and on the other hand, on the European and national legislative measures and projects that govern them. On the basis of these lessons, in October 2021 we tabled a new text to ban PFAS in paper and cardboard food packaging. In terms of health and the environment, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) points to the presence of PFAS in food packaging and its transfer to consumer products as one of the main sources of contamination in the human body. In addition, a survey carried out by nine European NGOs on the presence of PFAS in paper and cardboard food packaging revealed that all the products analysed showed traces of PFAS. Worse still, intentional treatment of PFAS has been confirmed in the majority of cases and rates up to 60 times the threshold of 20 micrograms of fluorinated substance per gram of paper and paperboard have been observed. As regards legislation, substances authorised in paper and paperboard packaging intended to come into contact with foodstuffs are regulated at national level, in this case by Royal Decree of 11 May 1992. In addition, the European Commission is preparing a proposal for a restriction under the REACH Regulation on the overall use of non-essential PFAS. For several months, we have been working on our motion for a resolution. This work has been enriched with written opinions and very helpful and interesting hearings. I would also like to thank all the experts for their valuable contributions. In view of the ongoing work at European level, it was important for us that a national ban should not be introduced in parallel with a European ban, especially since the ban would prevail over the first one. That is why we wanted, through an amendment, to make the introduction of a national ban conditional on the absence of such a measure in the European Commission's proposal, which is expected in 2023. In concrete terms, our proposal, as amended, offers a guarantee to our people that PFAS will be banned in paper and cardboard food packages, i.e. pizza boxes, cardboard bowls, sandwich packs, cereal boxes, french fries bags or pasta boxes, whether by a European or national measure. This text has been adopted by a very large majority in committee, something which we can particularly welcome. We cannot accept that our citizens will be confronted on a daily basis without knowing it by packaging contaminated with such toxic substances. The adoption of this proposal would be a real step forward in order to protect the health of our citizens. As such, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that it will find a favourable outcome in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u27	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that the rule was to observe five minutes of speaking time. As you are the author of this proposal, I was a little wider but I saw that my attention was drawn to the timer. So I had to make the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u29	You apologize to the entire assembly and we thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u30	Thank you, Mr Senesael, for your initiative. It is indeed a very topical issue. Mrs Creemers already referred to groundwater in Flanders, where PFAS was found in 88 % of the 200 measuring points examined. In almost 40% of the measuring points, shallow groundwater would not pass the rigorous test of the European Food Agency. Today we have a motion for a resolution on PFAS in food packaging. Mr Senesael's concern is justified. He also expressed the openness to make his proposal more realistic through a number of necessary amendments. That reality is that the European Commission will prohibit all non-essential uses of PFAS, including its use in the manufacture of consumer products. Of course, we must be able to reach an agreement quickly on the definition of essential applications. We can't wait. That is why we can agree with the signal that Parliament wants to send to the government, in particular that in the long term there will be no more PFAS in food packaging, paper and cardboard. PFAS is still present in many other products, but cannot always be regulated at national level. Subject to a ban under the REACH Regulation, the authorisation of such chemicals in a number of packages is currently regulated at national level. This is demonstrated by Dutch and Danish measures. The government can, if necessary, take matters into its own hands. I believe that the European strategy for sustainable chemicals should finally become concrete for PFAS in paper and cardboard food packaging. This does not mean anything more or less than a ban on non-essential uses and therefore a ban on consumer goods. We shall therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u31	Since the scandal of the PFAS pollution at the 3M plant in Zwijndrecht, no one can deny that PFAS is a very serious problem for the environment and public health. With the regularity of the clock there are still research results coming in on the scope of the pollution. This morning one could read in the newspaper that the latest generation of PFAS is already widespread in our environment. The high levels of contamination in the blood of the residents also cause a great deal of concern. Those who do not live near PFAS production sites may also have a harmful amount of PFAS in the body. This is also reflected in the European Biomonitoring Initiative. Up to a quarter of young people in Europe are exposed to PFAS concentrations that may have adverse health effects. So there is already a huge amount of harmful PFAS present in our living environment. Because of their persistence, these substances are very difficult to repair. Each unit of PFAS that is put into circulation is therefore one too many. That is why the PVDA welcomed the insight gained by the PS that we cannot wait for a European ban on PFAS to tackle this pollution at source. Although the PVDA considered the scope of the resolution proposal rather modest, with only the focus on paper and cardboard food contact materials, we could certainly support it. It was also a tried and tested example in another country, Denmark. However, all this changed with the amendments tabled by the Vivaldi coalition, which completely undermined the motion for a resolution. After all, the question of introducing a national ban was replaced by waiting for Europe. Essentially, the text lost any purpose at that time. That is why the PVDA has also tabled an amendment to restore the original request for a national ban. It is imperative that national action is already taken to address PFAS at its source. Several written opinions rightly point out that European initiatives under REACH will be on the road for years to come. The ban on C6 will be carried out by 2025 at the earliest. The complete ban on demand from Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Norway and Sweden will, if it comes through, come at best by 2028. It is therefore certainly justified to take national action already to restrict the use of PFAS. What is more, years of waiting seems to us to be guilty in the light of the urgency and scale of the problem. There are adequate alternatives available. We are following the environmental movement that trade and internal market legislation should not be an excuse not to adopt national legislation. We also know from Denmark's example that this is not a problem at all in practice. EU Member States have to intervene where they can to protect their citizens and the environment, but apparently the PS has yet again given in to the no gold-plating story of the patronage, which means that we have to wait for years for European regulation. You may say that the European Commission will come forward with a proposal in 2023, but neither you nor I know whether that proposal will go as far as the restriction you originally requested in your resolution at national level. The fact that you did not register a deadline for European action in the new version of the resolution proposal does not inspire confidence either. It says now that you are asking for national action if European action is not taken, but based on the wording in the text, the government can actually wait as long as it wants. Future action at European level cannot and must not, therefore, stop us from taking action now. The national procedure is indeed long, but the European one is even longer. However, Member States are free to restrict their own use of PFAS as long as the restriction at European level through REACH is not yet complete. I'm finishing up, colleagues. We intended to support the motion for a resolution, because it was a step in the right direction for the elimination of PFAS in non-essential applications. We are committed to taking all possible measures at national level and to calling at European level for a rapid and complete ban on PFAS. If you approve our amendment to restore the motion for a resolution, you can still count on the support of the PVDA, but if you insist on the complete erosion of the proposal, we believe that a blow to the face of all the PFAS victims will force us to abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u32	Madam President, I would like to reply to Mrs Daems. Indeed, she had already made her remarks and criticisms at the committee on 21 June. Mrs Daems, I do not know if you have listened to my speech, but at the beginning of this point, words are important. I take the text as amended. We ask the government, if the European Commission does not propose a ban on PFAS in paper and cardboard food packaging, to work on such a ban in Belgium. On 21 June, I told you that the European Commission's proposal was expected by 2023. In the introduction, I recalled the information, if necessary, and it seems to me that the need is, I will make myself more precise. The proposal to restrict the use of non-essential PFAS under the European Commission's REACH Regulation is expected on 13 January 2023, a date that I will not forget, since it is my birthday. According to the last update of the calendar. If this proposal of January 13, 2023 did not contain a ban on PFAS in paper and cardboard food packaging, then the government will be called upon to act. In all cases, I repeat, the Belgian population should be given greater protection against exposure to PFAS. This is a question of organisation and efficiency, not of an undertaking which seeks to distort our proposal or to deprive it of its meaning. Also, I think that the criticisms you are making are not up to the ambition of our text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u33	I know we discussed it in committee, but why, if you are so sure about the time of the European Commission's proposal, is this not the date in the resolution? If on that date the European Commission does not publish a proposal that requires the same thing as the initial resolution, Belgium should immediately start working on a national ban. Okay, but taking on a national ban already, isn't it helpful? In any case, it will take three years for the European Commission's proposal to be adopted effectively. Then there's a transition period of another three years. Are we really going to wait so long to protect the population from PFAS via food contact materials? We have heard very clearly that it will take a very long time. That is in writing in the written opinions we have received in view of this resolution. I have also heard the people in the hearing say very clearly that it is useful to adopt a national ban already. Then what reason is there not to? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u34	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u35	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u36	I come back to the point of order of Mrs Vindevoghel and Mrs Merckx. I have taken the advice of the Legal Service to realize what "any member of the House may, in the course of a debate, request the floor on a point of order in connection with the proceedings of the House". Quite logically, we need a link to the work we are dealing with. Here, however, there are no items on the agenda that refer to the issue of SNCB. You also had the opportunity to do so on a topical issue if you wished, but the point of order as such has no connection. I will declare your motion inadmissible on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service, which states: "The order motion does not, from a legal point of view, contain a question relating to the proceedings of the Court of Justice in the wake of a topical debate and is therefore inadmissible." It is up to you to submit your request through the other multiple channels, including inquiries and questions in plenary or committee. All this is the responsibility of parliamentarians as part of the control of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u37	Madam President, I have taken all these steps. I asked the question in committee, I wrote to the chairman and I addressed the minister in committee. I've been going all these ways to get that text. That article clearly states that having the texts is important for my work in committee. If I wish to intervene in committee on the management agreement...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u38	Mrs Vindevoghel, you also had the opportunity to put an oral question instead of an order motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u39	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill amending various provisions relating to the control of the supply of health care professions, No. 2801/1. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law amending various provisions relating to the supply control of health professions, No. 2801/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Vandenbroucke motivates the urgency that students and universities should be informed as soon as possible of the global medical offer quotas for 2028 and of the dental offer quotas for 2027. This improves the legal certainty of students, given their necessary participation in the entrance exam, and their organisation before the start of the next academic year. It is also necessary to set global quotas so that the Communities can fix their respective subquotas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u41	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u42	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when introducing the draft law partially transposing Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the work-life balance of parents and caregivers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU, and regulating certain other aspects relating to leave, No 2808/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law partially transposing Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance of work and private life for parents and carers, and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU and regulating certain other aspects of leave, No. 2808/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u43	Madam President, I would like to motivate the urgency, but I do not have a text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u44	This was presented in the Conference of Presidents yesterday. What is the government doing? He insists? No emergency request? Small concertation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u45	Madam President, in the absence of any motivation for urgent requests, can we proceed to the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u46	It is clear that there are some difficulties in communicating, since a motivation was presented yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, and I suppose it is still valid today. [[Tumult]] [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u47	I am the president of everyone, opposition and majority, both. Do we vote or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u48	Madam President, this is not the first time this has happened. I have experienced this situation countless times in the previous Parliament, and the courtesy has always been to allow government officials to quickly and urgently speak with the member of government in charge of the matter to know what is necessary to justify the urgency. This is not the first time this has happened, especially during this Parliament. We need patience and courtesy, and I think it's worth remembering from time to time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u49	Madam President, I would just like to say that we are two weeks before the recess. Does it have to be said that the question of urgency is actually an empty box? However, when even the box can no longer be presented, only the lack of content remains. Please let us proceed to the vote. Actually, it's almost embarrassing now if we let the situation last too long. One urgency has been requested, and it has been granted. I tried to get under the banks, but that didn't help. She's been granted. That is what we are holding on to today. That's the minimum the government can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u50	We heard the motivation yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. There are three questions of urgency. One question has already been voted on. We shall therefore, of course, be voting on the other two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u51	Madam President, the urgency is being asked for the transposition of the directive which entered into force on 1 August and which must be transposed into national law by 2 August next. That time limit, imposed on us by the directive, justifies the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you all know that we are all committed to keeping the seriousness of this institution at a certain level. That's not easy. What is happening here is a new absolute low point, because the very simple administrative handling of reading a text shows that the government is unable to organise its affairs in such a way that this is passed on to the minister concerned. This means that such a cinema must be played here. We are now two weeks before the summer recess, so it doesn't make much difference anymore, but I would ask the majority colleagues to spare you the humiliation to stand up for this request of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u53	Mr De Roover, that is a little too much drama on your part. There was a little practical problem. That has caused a few minutes of delay. The Minister, who is here on behalf of the government, has given the reason for the urgent handling of the text. That's it. That's it. That's it. So I don't think your exaggeration is necessary, to be honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u54	I am very sorry, Mr De Vriendt. Your loyalty to the government has proved enormous this week. You have even thrown your own principles into the trash, but there are limits. The ministers present here, and I do not blame them, did not know what it was about a few minutes ago. I assume that a text is being sent out that is being read here with a duty to read. You're turning this house into an absolutely unworthy charade. I know you'll approve the urgency later. If there is any urgent need for some European directive to be supplemented urgently in the year 2032, then you will also approve it. I actually think you approve of everything the government is asking for here. Once again, this week it has turned out to be. Mr Calvo, you are the man of political renewal. This is the political renewal of this government. You're turning this house into a circus like this. Just continue, the people will judge the disrespect with which you deal with this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u55	Madam President, Minister, I am not going to paraphrase my colleague De Roover, who is absolutely right about your way of doing things. If I understand the projects for which the government is asking for urgency, there are important questions about the emergencies that the government is asking for and the content of these emergencies. I am thinking in particular of a text by Secretary of State Schlitz concerning the transposition of a directive dating from 2019, which deals with the balance between work and private life and which is now being brought urgently. Imposing a whole series of texts as a matter of urgency is not, in fact, so problematic for parliamentarians, but it is especially problematic for the services of the House, Madam President. When I see what is happening in committee, how the ministers and the majority put pressure on all the employees and then come here to get us to vote on a 2019 directive as a matter of urgency – it's never until 2022! – because it was discovered that this had to be implemented, I find all this totally unacceptable! In the government's emergency requests, is there one that concerns the job deal? I understand that there are some important employment issues. But for these cases, there is no urgent need to be able to make progress on employment development! I do not understand the political logic of this government!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u56	Madam President, in this House we too often have to deplore the fact that the hospital is making fun of charity! I will not repeat the inventory of all your techniques of obstruction, of second readings in references of amendments to the Council of State, not to finish any more! You are the champions of parliamentary obstruction! Don't let that happen! Madam President, can we move forward out of respect for the services that perhaps deserve better than these vain polemics? We can come back next week with the emergency requests, it doesn't come a week away. I propose to continue with the votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u57	What do you want? Do we vote for the emergency by sitting and rising?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u58	Madam President, to close, I think there is a lack of respect for Parliament. We don't even bother to say why there might be an emergency. I find myself perfectly in Mr Laaouej's proposal, that is, not to vote for emergencies because there is no motivation. We shall proceed to the vote on the laws, point!. Everyone has to respect the procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u59	Colleagues, let's go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u60	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (Art. 75, No. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u61	Madam President, I would like to clarify the matter for you: have you now granted the urgency requested by the government without a vote? Madam President, the fact that the members of the government have not been informed by their colleagues of the urgency they need to ask here is not new. We've been through that with Secretary of State Schlitz. However, I find it a disgrace that you feel called upon to carry out the government's agenda, to disrespect Parliament and to act like a lapdog! You're a government lapdog instead of a chamber president! A lapdog!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u62	Just to clarify, I think there were four texts. The first was Minister Vandenbroucke's (No. 2801/1), which we have just talked about. Two directives have to be transposed before 2 August; they concern the text on work-life balance (No. No 2808/1) and Mrs Schlitz's proposal (No. 2813/1). The fourth text concerns the employment deal, and Mr Laaouej said that it would be postponed to next week. It's on the table. Please note that the other texts require urgency and we ask for a vote on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u63	Colleagues, the urgency has been accepted on the draft law on health care professions (No 2801/1). I now propose that we take a decision on the urgent request for the draft law transposing the European directive on work-life balance, No 2808/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u64	May I take it that the vote is the same for the urgent request for Bill No. 2813/1? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the urgency of the job deal. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u66	I support the opposition's call for urgency for a bill from this government, namely the job deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u67	Can we get our minds back a little bit? If you don't shut up, I'll suspend the session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u68	Madam President, it is about the job deal, but I have not heard any reasons for the government's urgency. [[Tumult]] That makes you laugh! I'm sorry, but the job deal doesn't make me laugh at all. It amuses the gallery to make people work ten hours a day and four days a week. For us, it's no! It's not regulatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u69	The next item is the appointment of the French-speaking clerk of the Disciplinary Council of the Commission de Régulation de l'Électricité et du Gaz. The next item is the appointment of the French-speaking Registrar of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. Mr Philippe Aoust's candidacy was announced in plenary session on 30 June 2022. Mr Philippe Aoust's candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 30 June 2022. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Mr. Philippe Aoust elected pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Since there is only one candidate, Mr Philippe Aoust may be declared elected under Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u70	Voters 116 Stemmen White or invalid 13 Blank or invalid Two-thirds majority 78 Two-thirds majority For the first candidate: For the first candidate: Ms Nathalie GILSON obtained 9 votes. Ms Nathalie Gilson received 9 votes. Ms Kattrin JADIN obtained 94 votes. Mrs Kattrin JADIN received 94 votes. Ms Kattrin Jadin, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared the first candidate to fill the vacancy as a French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Ms Kattrin Jadin, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed first candidate for the vacant post of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. For the second candidate: For the second candidate: Ms Nathalie GILSON obtained 78 votes. Ms Nathalie Gilson received 78 votes. Ms Kattrin JADIN obtained 9 votes. Mrs Kattrin JADIN received 9 votes. Nathalie Gilson, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is declared a second candidate for the vacant position of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Ms Nathalie Gilson, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed second candidate for the vacant post of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u71	Voters 116 Stemmen White or invalid 13 Blank or invalid Valid 103 Geldig Absolute majority 52 Perfect majority Mr. Jean-Noël COLIN obtained 3 votes. Mr Jean-Noël COLIN had three votes. Mr Dany Donnen obtained 0 votes. Mr Dany DONNEN received 0 votes. Ms Charlotte DUCUING obtained 3 votes. Mrs Charlotte DUCUING received 3 votes. Mr. Franck DUMORTIER obtained 11 votes. Mr Franck Dumortier had 11 votes. Mr Laurent GIQUELLO obtained 1 vote. Mr Laurent GIQUELLO had one vote. Mr Gaëtan GOOSSENS obtained two votes. Mr Gaëtan Goossens received two votes. Ms Laure-Anne GULTENS obtained 0 votes. Mrs Laure-Anne GULTENS received 0 votes. Ms Mona KOMBADJIAN obtained 0 votes. Ms Mona KOMBADJIAN received 0 votes. Ms Nathalie Ragheno obtained 78 votes. Ms Nathalie Ragheno received 78 votes. Mr Jean-Marc VAN GYSEGHEM obtained 5 votes. Mr Jean-Marc VAN GYSEGHEM received 5 votes. Ms. Nathalie Ragheno, having obtained an absolute majority, is declared a Francophone member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (in place of Ms. Séverine Waterbley). Ms Nathalie Ragheno, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a French-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (in place of Mrs Séverine Waterbley).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u72	Voters 116 Stemmen White or invalid 21 Blank or invalid Valid 95 Geldig Absolute majority 48 Perfect majority M. Alexis BOSSUYT a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Alexis BOSSUYT received 0 votes. Mr Aaron HACHE obtained 0 votes. Mr Aaron HACHE received 0 votes. Mr Andries HOFKENS obtained 2 votes. Mr Andries Hoffens received two votes. Mr Nick Noel obtained 7 votes. Mr Nick Noël received seven votes. Mr Steve Vandenbroecke a obtenu 1 voix. Mr Steve Vandenbroecke had one vote. Mr Bavo VAN DEN HEUVEL obtained 0 votes. Mr Bavo VAN DEN HEUVEL received 0 votes. Ms Griet Verhenneman obtained 3 votes. Mrs Griet VERHENNEMAN received 3 votes. Mr Gert Vermeulen obtained 82 votes. Mr Gert VERMEULEN received 82 votes. Mr. Victor YANGANDI obtained 0 votes. Mr Victor Yangandi received 0 votes. Mr. Gert Vermeulen, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (in place of Mr. Nicolas Waeyaert). Mr Gert Vermeulen, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (in place of Mr Nicolas Waeyaert).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u73	Voters 116 Stemmen White or invalid 30 Blank or invalid Valid 86 Geldig Absolute majority 44 Perfect majority Mme Magali FEYS a obtenu 4 voix. Mrs Magali FEYS received 4 votes. Mr. Sheryar MALIK obtained 0 votes. Mr Sheryar MALIK received 0 votes. Mr Bert VAN OUTSIDE an obtenu 1 voix. Mr Bert VAN OUTSIDE received one vote. Mr Bavo VAN DEN HEUVEL obtained 0 votes. Mr Bavo VAN DEN HEUVEL received 0 votes. M. Eddy VAN DER STOCK a obtenu 4 voix. Mr Eddy VAN DER STOCK received four votes. Ms Griet Verhenneman obtained 77 votes. Mrs Griet VERHENNEMAN received 77 votes. Ms. Griet Verhenneman, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (in place of Mr. Frank Robben). Ms Griet Verhenneman, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (in place of Mr Frank Robben).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u74	Voters 116 Stemmen White or invalid 23 Blank or invalid Valid 93 Geldig Absolute majority 47 Perfect majority Mme Ketsia MALENGREAUX a obtenu 3 voix. Mrs Ketsia MALENGREAUX received 3 votes. Ms Cédrine MORLIÈRE obtained 90 votes. Mrs Cédrine MORLIERE received 90 votes. Since Ms. Cédrine Morlière obtained an absolute majority, she was declared a member of the Management Committee (Director of the Knowledge Centre) of the Data Protection Authority. Mrs Cédrine Morlière, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed a member of the Management Committee (Director of the Knowledge Centre) of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u75	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 28 June 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 28 June 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 288/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Sander Loones; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 288/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Sander Loones; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor briefly for two reasons. I do so firstly because of the author, our former colleague Joy Donné, but secondly because of the content. What's this all about? It's about something very serious. It is about municipalities, provincial authorities, schools and hospitals that are actually being robbed by controls of the Special Tax Inspectorate. There is a discussion on taxation. They are not controlled by the ordinary administration but by the Special Tax Inspectorate. Something weird is going on with that. Something's not right on three points. Firstly, Mr Donné questioned the Minister on the matter. The Minister replied that he saw ghosts and that there had been no attacks or such controls. However, the facts in the field confirm that this is the case. The Minister is simply misinformed by his own administration, which is not the least administration. After all, this is about the Special Tax Inspectorate. Secondly, the checks carried out by the BBI in this respect are simply contradictory to and in direct conflict with the legislation adopted here in the Chamber in 2019. The Special Tax Inspectorate ignores and continues to ignore that legislation. In a very clear and flagrant way, there is an excess of what has been approved here in Parliament. That's just not normal. Thirdly, I would like to conclude by saying that the question of whether these controls are really necessary can be asked. The Special Tax Inspectorate is an administration created specifically to combat organised tax evasion. Here, however, we are talking about schools, municipal authorities and provincial authorities. Someone really needs to explain to us if they're the target group of the BBI. Are schools organisations that can be framed in the fight against organised tax evasion? Is that the case for hospitals or municipal authorities? This is a flagrant example of the policy pursued by this government. The fight against fraud is justified, but it is carried out with unfair weapons vis-à-vis institutions of good will. It's about public authorities being robbed, not by ordinary tax inspectors, but by the Special Tax Inspectorate. That's just inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u77	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u78	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u79	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u80	Yes 82 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u82	Yes 88 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u83	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u84	Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u85	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u86	Yes [[113]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u87	Vote on Amendment No 17 by Bert Wollants to Article 6.(2640/6) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Bert Wollants on Article 6.(2640/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u88	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Thierry Warmoes to Article 6.(2640/6) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Thierry Warmoes to Article 6.(2640/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u89	Yes 9 Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No. 15 by Thierry Warmoes to Article 6.(2640/6) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Thierry Warmoes on Article 6.(2640/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u90	Yes 9 Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Bert Wollants to Article 15.(2640/6) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Bert Wollants on article 15.(2640/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u91	Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Thierry Warmoes to Article 15.(2640/6) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Thierry Warmoes on Article 15.(2640/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u92	Yes 49 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 19 by Bert Wollants to Article 15.(2640/6) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Bert Wollants on article 15.(2640/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u93	Yes 44 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u94	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u95	Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u96	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u97	Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u98	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Greet Daems cs on request 2.(2260/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Greet Daems cs on request 2.(2260/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u99	Yes 9 Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u100	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u101	Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u102	We must approve the agenda for the meetings of 13 and 14 July 2022. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the meetings of 13 and 14 July 2022. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. Do you agree to work at the finish on July 13th?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u103	Madam President, I understand that the Minister of Justice is not available on Wednesday, so that the two draft laws on justice will be discussed on Thursday. So until the finish Wednesday, except for the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u104	That's right. Until the finish Wednesday, except for two drafts by Mr Van Quickenborne on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u105	Let me get this straight. There was quite a fuss this week about the prisoner exchange agreement with Iran. Will that be on Wednesday or Thursday? This is a matter of urgency. That's the State Department, not the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip193x.u106	It hasn't happened so far. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 13 July 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, July 13, 2022, at 2.15 p.m.
