ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u1	Good morning, colleagues. We start immediately with the questions for Secretary of State De Bleeker, because we also have legislative work. Since Mrs Van Bossuyt still has to go to the Committee on Finance and the Budget, I suggest that we deal with her questions first. Are you sure you don't mind? Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u2	Good morning, everyone. Thank you for dealing with my questions first. As usual, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u3	Mrs Van Bossuyt, as regards the revision of the package travel directive, the public consultation of the European Commission indeed ended on 10 May. My administration has answered all the questions raised, on the basis of the findings made, inter alia, by the Service of Economic Regulations and the Economic Inspection since the Directive entered into force in 2018. However, this is a very legal and technical matter which I do not wish to overwhelm. The European Commission is currently analysing all the responses submitted and will publish the replies in the fourth quarter of this year. The European Commission is likely to come forward with a concrete proposal for legislative amendment in the course of 2023. Of course, I am closely following this dossier and I am in contact with both the travel sector and the European colleagues. As soon as formal discussions start at EU level, I will not fail to inform the honourable Members of Parliament about the concrete proposals and positions. With regard to the revision of the various passenger rights regulations, more specifically those for air passengers, I would like to refer you to my colleague, Mr Georges Gilkinet, who is following up this dossier for the Belgian Government. It goes without saying, however, that the Belgian Government will not support proposals aimed at reducing the existing level of consumer protection. As far as the draft law on the adjustment of the Belgian insolvency system is concerned, I can tell you that the informal pre-notification has been completed by the European Commission and that we are currently at the stage of formal notification. As the procedure for the European Commission is still in progress, certain amendments to the draft law may be made so that the notification procedure can be successfully completed. I cannot therefore go into the concrete content of the draft law at the moment. We expect a final decision from the European Commission in July. The draft law will then be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. The final draft law is expected to be submitted to Parliament in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, the directive on package travel is indeed legal-technical, but it has very concrete consequences for the consumer. For example, the negotiations at European level on the previous version concerned the possibility of making changes to an online booking of a flight and a hotel within 24 hours. It is therefore important to continue to monitor this matter closely. I very much welcome your offer to keep us up-to-date on the negotiations at European level. Minister Van Peteghem systematically gives a debriefing after a ministerial council in the Finance and Budget Committee. It would be interesting if you kept this committee informed if fundamental decisions on consumer protection were taken in the Council of Ministers. This practice could ensure that the European debate is conducted at national level as well. It is and will continue to be a focus of attention that the directive on passenger rights does not reduce the rights of consumers, which is now on the table. The same applies to the insolvency insurance agreement at national level, which is very important for travel agents. We will continue to follow that dossier closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u6	Ms. Van Bossuyt, the Economic Inspectorate received only one notification in 2022 in which a travel company was refused after the booking because it did not meet the conditions of the accommodation. Booking sites should always be clear about the main features of the accommodation. Otherwise, there may indeed be deception because, in such a case, the consumer might have made a different choice in relation to the transaction, provided that he was properly informed. With regard to online accommodation booking sites, the European Consumer Protection Cooperation Network has in the past carried out actions related to Booking.com, Expedia and Airbnb. Various practices were checked, including the indication of prices and the indication of the difference between professional and private landlords. The Belgian Economic Inspectorate took an active part in the European dialogues with these companies. My services will, of course, continue to closely monitor consumer complaints in relation to the travel sector and will take appropriate enforcement measures where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u7	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State. Although there are few complaints, I think there are more cases in practice. Not everyone is going to file a complaint. We must ensure that these price comparison sites effectively indicate the correct price. When visiting such sites, you must indicate the specific details of the travel company. For example, when you enter a family with two children and even their age, you get a whole list of possible accommodations. The consumer then makes a choice based on a price-quality comparison and book the desired accommodation. When one subsequently receives an e-mail that the room does not appear to be suitable for the travel company, after which one proposes an upgrade for which one has to pay extra, that is not fair compared to providers who do post the correct price. We need to pay attention to that. You also mentioned the ECC. There is a representation of the ECC in each EU Member State and it is doing a good job in Belgium. For consumers, the ECC is an important tool for defending their rights at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u8	Mr President, I refer once again to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u9	Ms Van Bossuyt, the High Council for the Self-employed and SMEs and the special consultative committee on consumption at the Central Board for Business were questioned and have already given their opinion on 3 June and 20 June 2022 respectively. The slopes on the introduction of a self-adhesive sticker, the extension of the withdrawal period and the prohibition of immediate execution during the withdrawal period have meanwhile been abandoned as a result of those opinions. At present a design of KB is being prepared, which indeed imposes a 14-day waiting period between the time of the first visit and the second visit at the consumer's house by the energy supplier. The aim of the waiting period is to tackle aggressive practices that put pressure on consumers to conclude an often more detrimental energy contract immediately in the presence of a company. The waiting period should allow the consumer to carry out an in-depth examination of the proposal offered and to decide on the proposal on the basis of all available information. It is only after the expiry of the waiting period that the company may revisit the consumer in order to conclude a contract at that time. The questioning of the Energy Consumer Agreement is already a cliff. Together with Minister Dermagne and Minister Van der Straeten, I am investigating what improvements can be made. This is not a simple analysis, because in the meantime, several provisions of the consumer agreement are legally anchored, such as the simplified disclosure of information according to a defined structure on the energy bill, which has been mandatory since 1 January 2022. At present, only 10 suppliers subscribe to the consumer agreement. The aim is to establish a sectoral consumer agreement so that consumers are optimally protected against possible misleading or aggressive practices in their relationship with energy suppliers. We are examining for which new players the application of the Energy Consumer Agreement should be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I understand from this that there is no choice for the system with the stick saying "Here can door-to-door sales." I welcome that. Imagine that there is no sticker, would that mean that one is dealing with an opt-in and opt-out system? Such a system would not contribute to clarity. Another good thing is that the waiting period is being extended. For some people it may indeed seem intimidating if someone is at the door. One then signs for a purchase, because some people do not dare to say no easily. Finally, we are certainly looking forward to the first results of the consumer agreement on energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u11	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a while ago we could read everywhere that even those who are registered on the Bel-me-not-more list often receive telephones from telemarketers. The number of complaints has tripled in six years. The coalition agreement provided for an evaluation of the Bel-me-not-more list and an examination of its enforcement. In the Netherlands, a similar evaluation has highlighted several bottlenecks, including the maintenance of the Bel-me-not-more list. The Dutch legislator has decided not to wait for the future e-privacy regulation, but to introduce itself an opt-in system, a Bel-mij-well list. There we must first give clear permission to be called for marketing purposes. This system has been in force in the Netherlands since the beginning of this year. What is the state of play of the planned evaluation and of the study on the effectiveness and enforcement of the Bel-me-not-more list? What bottlenecks were identified by the Economic Inspectorate? How many notifications received by the Economic Inspectorate involve cross-border activities, for example by call centres based in the Netherlands? What is your position on the Dutch system? We have been a few months, so I suppose there are a number of conclusions to be drawn, in particular as regards consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u12	Ms Depraetere, following the creation of the central number database, the Bel-me-not-anymore list has been drawn up by the telecom operators in the framework of that database since 3 March 2022 and is therefore always up to date. This list shall be made available to direct marketing companies. The preparation of the amendment of the relevant provisions of the Code of Economic Law and the Royal Decree governing the operation of the non-profit association in charge of the management of this list has been almost completed. In 2022, the Economic Inspectorate conducted a general investigation of Belgian companies that conduct direct marketing by telephone. A total of 34 infringements of the legal provisions relating to the Bel-me-not list were detected in 60 controlled companies. The main enforcement bottlenecks are the multitude of intermediaries between the operator and the final call centre or the company, the international non-EU nature of the companies, which makes it more difficult to identify them and, where appropriate, to sanction them, and finally the use of number protection and spoofing, which makes it more difficult to identify companies that do not immediately communicate their identity to the consumer via the telephone. On the basis of information in the notifications received through the FPS Economy hotline, the origin of the calls cannot be determined with sufficient reliability. The European Directive on privacy and electronic communications allows Member States to introduce an opt-in or opt-out system for direct telephone marketing. In Belgium, the opt-out system was chosen, which also appears to be the case in most Member States, including France, Spain, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Poland. In practice, the opt-in system as in the Netherlands means that prior consent must be obtained from any person who can receive telephone calls for direct marketing purposes. This places a disproportionate burden on bona fide companies, while it will make no difference to the malicious companies. After all, malicious players will not consult a call list, regardless of whether they are working with an opt-in or opt-out system. Also in terms of enforcement by inspection services, an opt-in system offers no significant advantage compared to an opt-out system. In both cases, the inspection services will have to proceed in the same way, in order to detect and identify infringements. I am therefore not convinced that the Dutch system would be better than the Belgian system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, I understand the issue of malicious enterprises. It's hard to check anyway. However, I ask myself the following question. 60 companies were controlled. 34 companies were found to have committed an infringement. I assume that this is not about malicious enterprises or about them. It appears that there is also a considerable problem for other companies and that consumers are clearly not sufficiently protected by the opt-out system, as is currently the case. It is therefore certainly worth examining the Dutch system here in committee and examining whether an evaluation of the system can be obtained. In any case, my group does not want to exclude this system in advance, because it appears that the consumer is not sufficiently protected today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, after the floods in a large part of our country almost a year ago, there appeared to be a lot of problems with the fire insurance agreements. During one of the discussions in committee, you indicated that you would deal with it and simplify procedures. You would also examine, together with the sector, how to keep premiums payable and whether insurance policies could be made more readable, better and clearer. Recently the problem was raised again when a number of houses in Flanders flooded after abundant rainfall. So we really need to find a solution to the problem, otherwise we will face it more often in the future, bearing in mind that abundant rainfall and droughts will increasingly occur. In addition, there is a procedure under way against the interpretative law, on which there are indeed many discussions with the insurers. How are you getting on with the reform? When can we expect a proposal on this? At your request, the FSMA has set up an internal working group to work on better and more readable agreements. What's the status? Has the working group come up with a proposal yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u15	Mrs Depraetere, it is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, who is in charge of the dossier in question. The amendment of the federal insurance legislation falls first and foremost within its competence. As early as 2016, the FSMA published a communication to the insurance companies containing the results of its sector inquiry into fire insurance. This Communication addresses, inter alia, the expectations of the FSMA regarding the content of those insurances and makes several recommendations on their comprehensibility. The FSMA also pointed out to insurance undertakings the importance of being clearly structured and providing clear information on the covered risk so that consumers know exactly which goods and situations are covered or are excluded from coverage. Due to the floods that hit Belgium in July 2021, the problem of the comprehensibility of the fire insurance agreements has become an even greater focus. As a result, the initiative was taken to set up an internal task force at the FSMA to contribute to the legibility and transparency of the agreements. That task force should draw up a draft standard fire insurance contract, in an accessible language, with a simple structure and with the principle that everything that is not explicitly excluded is remembered as a starting point. That agreement will have to provide minimum standard coverage for essential safeguards, with each policy holder always having the choice to add various options that meet its specific needs. Discussions are currently under way with the sector on the basis of a preliminary draft drawn up by the FSMA. The discussions have been accelerated by the price comparison for insurance products we are making together with the FSMA. The need for clear structure of the contracts quickly emerged. As soon as the work is completed, I will, of course, inform you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, it is good to hear that steps have been taken and that results from the FSMA can soon be expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, the deliberate deception of consumers about the ecological impact of a product or service, called greenwashing, is, in addition to misleading consumers, also detrimental to the real need to make products and services truly more sustainable. It is therefore right that the Economic Inspectorate should monitor this. Last year you published a guide that should help companies to identify greenwashing forms and thus avoid them in their own marketing and advertising. According to the FPS Finance Newsletter, the Economic Inspection received 66 notifications of false labels and 9 reports of greenwashing in 2021. It is more unclear how that figure evolved in recent years and also how many convictions were actually expressed. How has the number of reports of false labels and greenwashing evolved over the past ten years? What do you think caused that? How many companies were convicted of misleading commercial practices, specifically with regard to greenwashing or the use of false labels? You have an right of initiative to order investigations to have possible cases of greenwashing investigated by the Economic Inspectorate. In how many cases have you already used this right of initiative? What additional measures do you think are necessary to combat greenwashing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u18	Mrs Buyst, the phenomenon of false labels is wider than mere greenwashing. That is why I specifically focus on the phenomenon of greenwashing. The guide to good practice on environmental claims, which I published together with the FPS Economy in July last year, complements the general legal framework in which companies can operate on fair environmental claims. However, that guidance is also useful for the Economic Inspectorate, as these elements provide an assessment of whether or not an environmental claim is misleading. The Economic Inspection received nine notifications in 2021 and five notifications in 2022 to date concerning the phenomenon of greenwashing. Previously, there was no specific statistical code for the phenomenon. Since October 2021, the phenomenon has also been explicitly added to the reporting point of the Economic Inspection, to make it even easier to report it. Despite continued attention, the number of notifications remains low for the time being. This low number can be explained by the fact that consumers do not suffer a direct financial disadvantage due to misleading green claims and by the fact that they are often unaware that certain claims may be misleading. However, the Economic Inspectorate also opens files on possible greenwashing on its own initiative. In 2021, the Economic Inspection carried out 29 checks on greenwashing. These 29 checks, in turn, gave rise to 16 warnings. No minutes were drawn up as all companies volunteered for regularisation. Greenwashing is one of the priorities in my policy paper. As a result, the Economic Inspectorate is already carrying out priority research on its own initiative. I have also drawn attention to this issue on several occasions in the press, and I have called on consumers to report these practices through the hotline. An important focus is that consumers are aware of the phenomenon of greenwashing. In this context, I have also visited several companies that focus on sustainability. If companies use the practical guide, many forms of unintentional greenwashing can be avoided. Also the FPS Economy has continued attention to greenwashing in its communication. At European level, several legislative initiatives are ongoing around green claims. I follow them with attention. On 30 March 2022, the European Commission published its proposal on the consumer aspect of the green transition. This proposal contains, inter alia, an explicit ban on greenwashing, while the ban currently rests on the more general legal basis of unfair and misleading commercial practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for a clear and very concrete answer. You said yourself that you said at the time of your appointment that you want to take more active action against greenwashing. The public authorities must give the right incentives, both to industry and to consumers. Industry must produce sustainably and consumers can thus choose to live more ecologically. I sincerely believe that a large majority of people want to do the same. They really want to make ecological choices, but sometimes they simply lack the information to make that choice. Advertising can be a lever for this. Advertising can be a lever for achieving climate goals. That is why it is important that we tackle those companies that are deliberately or unconsciously spreading false information. The guide you published on the website is certainly a first step in the right direction, but the question is whether it is sufficient. Should we not dare to look at issues that can be legislatively done at federal level, so that strict conditions are introduced, for example, to make it easier to distinguish reliable labels? Legislative initiatives are already underway at European level. After all, the government must ensure that consumers can make conscious choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, it was following anomaly in their turnover that French restorers realized that scammers had discreetly subdued their payment terminals to replace them with pirated devices. This technique is called skimming. Usually focused on ATMs, the criminals seem to have updated themselves with the importance of contactless payment since the health crisis: the crooks place a skimmer that will allow to read the magnetic track of the customer's bank card. Skimming is nothing new. Its original version still exists: it is limited to recording the data of the payers. The scammers must then create fake cards associated with the subdued bank accounts and empty them with accomplices, often based abroad, who receive the data and manufacture "YesCard", these illegal bank cards that allow any transfer, regardless of the secret code typed by the holder. Madam Secretary of State, have you known of skimming-type scams in the Horeca sector in Belgium? What means can be used by restaurateurs and other renters to avoid this phenomenon? Could you remind me of the legislation on the use of "YesCard" in Belgium? Is their use increasing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u21	Mr Prévot, so far, the economic inspectorate has not received any reports on skimming in the Horeca. It is important to be vigilant, for example by marking banking terminals so as to be able to notice their possible replacement by other fraudulent payment terminals. In addition, it is advisable to check the extracts of accounts in order to be able to identify suspicious transactions in time. Skimming is a form of payment card fraud through which the victim's data is obtained illegally. As you say, "YesCard" would be used to copy the victim's payment card and then be able to withdraw money from his bank account. These cards are contrary to various provisions of the Criminal Code, such as article 196 concerning forgery in writing, article 197 concerning the use of forgery and article 496 concerning fraud. The research and continuation of skimming does not fall within the competence of the economic inspectorate. I refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your clear answer. After learning of the existence of such a phenomenon in French restaurants, I wanted to question you. Your response is likely to reassure us at this time, as your services have not received any reports related to the Horeca. In any case, as you said, we must remain vigilant and remember certain security measures, for example by marking bank terminals and regularly checking bank extracts in order to detect any anomalies. In addition, I had planned to interview your Justice colleague as well, and I will certainly do so to complete the approach to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u23	Mr President, Secretary of State, the Ukraine Task Force has identified a problem concerning the labelling of food products. The war causes certain food companies to face a shortage of raw materials and stocks that are shrinking. The recipes of some companies need to be adapted now. The problem evolves so quickly that food companies cannot adapt their labels to the pace. Labels are often printed months in advance. New labels cannot therefore be made from today to tomorrow. On 11 April, in order to protect both businesses and consumers from empty shelves in the shop, your Task Force provided a concrete solution to this problem, namely an action plan to ensure food safety and consumer information. This Action Plan allows operators to make certain changes in the composition of their products without having to change the labels, provided that the changes are notified to the FPS Economy. Consumers are informed about these changes through the different channels of the FPS Economy and in the sales outlets. I come to my questions. How many companies have already made a change in the composition of their products and reported to the FPS Economy? How many products are we talking about? About what products? What are the most important changes? The Action Plan lays down a number of strict conditions for operators to comply if they wish to make use of this temporary exemption regime. Is there any provision for controls to ensure compliance with these conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u24	Mrs Verhelst, since the end of April, food producers who are unable to immediately adapt the packaging or labelling of a product as a result of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine can indeed use a temporary and strictly regulated exception procedure. It is important to stress that the exception procedure should not under any circumstances have an impact on food safety and that, therefore, the labelling of allergens, nutritional value and other elements that may affect consumer health should be done correctly and clearly. As regards the information requested, on 28 June 2022 25 companies notified a change in the composition of their products to the FPS Economy. It concerns a total of 553 notified products. The derogation applies only to the replacement of sunflower seeds and their derivatives. 388 of the notified products concern the replacement of sunflower oil with rape oil. In 76 cases it concerns a mixture of rape oil and soya oil. In the case of lecithins, sunflower lecithin is replaced by rape lecithin. It concerns 26 of the notified products. Since 15 June, the Economic Inspection has carried out checks in shops to ensure that consumers are informed of the modified composition of the products in accordance with the conditions of the derogation procedure. Controls are also being carried out on the obligation for food producers to maintain internal documentation on the modified compositions in their entirety. Moreover, the impact and implementation of the exception procedure is evaluated on a monthly basis by the administration, in consultation with the representatives of the sectors and consumers concerned. I would also like to thank the administrations concerned for the hard work and the flexibility they have shown.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u25	Thank you for your clear answer. It's interesting to hear that it's mainly sunflower seeds and derivatives that are being replaced. Also interesting is that there will be inspection in the shops. I am curious to hear later whether this is effectively followed up nicely and is evolved monthly. I'm glad it's so under control, let's continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic836x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Mr D'Amico's 55029242C was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55027714C by Mrs Jadin is deleted, as is Question No 5, by Mrs Jadin. 55028317C by Mrs Dierick.
