ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u1	Madam President, Minister, Minister, some of the questions have been put for some time, but I am very curious about the state of play in a number of dossiers. Of course, these aren't new discussions. Firstly, the government agreement states that you would examine which federal administrative or management bodies could include additional representatives of the Länder in order to ensure greater synergy between these levels of policy. You sent a letter a long time ago to your colleagues to see in which cases that could be realised. A report would be drawn up on this subject after the summer recess of 2021, to be understood as being proposed at the Council of Ministers. On that letter the enthusiasm was not very great. The two CD&V excellences replied at that time. You sent a reminder email to the trade ministers on October 14th, with a specific deadline this time. By 15 November an overview of the Lander's representation at the federal institutions was expected and it was asked to identify where an additional representation could still be useful. We have received a state of play in the discussion of the policy paper. Minister Verlinden then announced that in the meantime Minister Dedonder and Minister Vandenbroucke had also responded to that call. In the meantime, what is the state of play? Have you received a satisfactory response from all the trade ministers? Has that report been drawn up in the meantime? If so, can this also be delivered to Parliament, or can we be given an overview of it? Has this already been brought to the Council of Ministers? If so, what has been decided? Can individual ministers themselves take those necessary legislative and executive initiatives in their policy areas and shape the stronger representation of the Länder in the federal administrative and management bodies? Or can this only be done after approval in the full Council of Ministers? What is the procedure that follows? In what areas has this already resulted in concrete results? What further action will you take on this passage from the coalition agreement, given the current state of affairs, which I am sure will be given a comprehensive overview of? In the case of asymmetric policies, too, the government's commitment to examining the extent to which it can implement its policy asymmetrically, tailored to the needs of the Länder, is reflected in the Community's coalition agreement. That commitment is to implement it effectively. The implementation of that passage in the coalition agreement encounters a great deal of resistance in the government. This is a procedure similar to that which I have just outlined about the additional representation in the Länder with the letter on which hardly any response was received, the reminder e-mail and so on. What is the status of this file? Which of the members of the government have you already received an answer from? What is the content of these responses on asymmetric control? Has there been a report on those answers? Has that come to the Council of Ministers yet? What else has been decided? Have any initiatives been taken in this respect? If so, what are they? What are the prospects? How do you intend to proceed with this dossier? The further communitarisation of health care is the only concrete commitment to institutional reforms in the government agreement. That should happen in this legislature, but we haven't seen any of it yet. During the discussion of the policy paper at the beginning of December, Mrs Verlinden said that, in the coming weeks, agreement would be reached in the government on the drafting of the texts on the division of powers, particularly in the area of health care. We are now a month and a half later and some remarkable articles have been published this week in the French-speaking press, for example an article in Le Soir of 14 February. I can see from this that there is still a lot of discussion in the government about this, so I would like to ask not only whether both ministers can confirm that in the government agreement the commitment has been made to homogenise this legislature's competence in the area of health care. After all, there are very clear doubts about this in the article in Le Soir. What concrete decisions were taken on the dossier at the Council of Ministers on Friday? I refer again to the article in Le Soir. Minister Clarinval made a clear distinction between discussions and negotiations: "Ce sont des discussions, pas des négociations." What exactly should we discuss? What is the finality of the discussions? What is the difference between discussion and negotiation? I would like some clarification and I would also like to know why the necessary legal texts cannot be drawn up immediately. One question that I repeat every time I ask about a state of affairs in the file is how to involve the Dutch-speaking opposition in the discussion, negotiation or whatever I should call it. Vivaldi does not have the necessary majorities on the Flemish side, so the opposition is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u2	Madam President, Minister, Minister, I was very pleased with your interview in De Standaard, Mrs Verlinden. You said that you hoped that the corona phase would end, and we will see how it evolves, and that it is time to open a number of new yards from the coalition agreement. You explicitly referred to the institutional chapter, which was an important chapter for your party during the government negotiations. I was glad to read that. And I am glad that we can have a monthly exchange of views on this subject in this committee, in a thematic way. Last month it was about the online citizen survey, for today I had put in a number of questions about the asymmetric policy. With this, I anticipated a little bit on your interview. After all, the subject has been slumbering in this House for some time, questions have been asked about it before. In the past, on your recommendation, I have already asked the various ministers, especially the Deputy Prime Ministers, what they intended to do in their departments in the field of asymmetric policy. That question has fallen a bit on a cold stone and was mainly answered with the vague intention of investigating it. Now that we are in a new phase, I will repeat this round and ask them the question again. But first I wanted to question you both as ministers responsible for coordinating this asymmetric policy, because I assume that you have already done that for me. Thanks to this information, we may be able to work more efficiently. My question deals specifically with the various issues, because I see that several of your colleagues are also in this new phase and are planning, but I do miss the aspect of 'asymmetrical policy'. I'll run them over. Firstly, Mr Van Hecke van Groen recently pointed out that there was a lack of follow-up to environmental crime. He noted that on the Flemish side there were more subpoenas than in Wallonia, but less administrative sanctions and fewer prosecutions. The experts have two explanations for this: on the one hand, the follow-up procedures are different in Flanders and Wallonia; on the other hand, your colleague Van Quickenborne does not make enough effort to do so, in particular by appointing too few environmental judges. This seems to me to be a typical example of a possible asymmetric policy element, namely to appoint additional environmental judges in the Land who need it more. I assume that you are aware of the communication of your coalition partner Green and that you may have had an exchange of views with Minister Van Quickenborne on this. Then you have no doubt established that you can implement the government agreement by providing additional environmental judges, especially in Flanders. Is that the case or did you discuss something else? The energy issue cannot be removed from the political agenda, the newspapers and the media, Parliament and the government. I have some questions about generating green energy at sea. The windmills at sea are covered by Belgian legislation. Flanders is authorized to land the energy. It's a complex puzzle. It seems obvious that the dossier is being approached in an asymmetrical way. The sea is only on one side of the country. It is difficult to approach it symmetrically, because there is no sea in Wallonia yet. Have you had any contact with Minister Van der Straeten? Its communication and that of Minister Van Quickenborne, who is responsible for the North Sea, show that they have been vigorous and not necessarily aligned with the Länder. A first aspect of asymmetry would be that one first tunes with the one who has to make the cable, I think. Have you discussed this as competent ministers? A third example is SNCB. Last week, Ecolo Minister Gilkinet, responsible for Mobility, published a new 2040 rail vision in the press. As usual in your government, the ambitions are great: better service, a doubling of train passengers and so on. However, the plan does not mention asymmetry, whereas it is primarily ground-based powers that lend themselves to a more asymmetric approach. Your party chairman is in favour of the Swiss model. The railway model of Switzerland is very interesting. The trains run very smoothly there. In the cantons, different players are active in a multilingual context. It's an inspiration. Did you talk to Minister Gilkinet about this? Did you point out to him that the coalition agreement states that he is expected to pursue an asymmetric policy, but that is not in his plans? Then I have a question concerning Minister Van Quickenborne, namely the prisons. At the beginning of this year the overpopulation was in the news, huge problems, already year and day, especially on the Flemish side, in the Flemish prisons. If one looks at the capacity, at the number of places, one can see that this is very much the same in Flanders and Wallonia. So one would think: everyone has the same number of places, the overpopulation will be spread out. However, this does not appear to be the case, the overpopulation is mainly in Flanders. There will be some new places now, 450 in Dendermonde and Haren, but that will certainly not solve the problem. There too, it seems to me to be self-evident, this territorially-bound competence lends itself perfectly to a more asymmetric approach. Have you discussed this with Minister Van Quickenborne? Mrs De Sutter is going to outsource EUR 180 million a year for begging newspapers, newspaper subsidies. The Flemish media players say that they no longer need these subsidies, that they can be removed. Under pressure from the Walloon media players, these subsidies will come back. The file is with Minister De Sutter and also with Minister Dermagne. It is said by experts that in Wallonia and Flanders there is a different context. Wallonia is a region that is more geographically extensive. So it is not so obvious in a earning model to get those newspapers on the bus when you have to travel more kilometres. In Flanders, the geographical context is different. One is no better than the other, but it's different. The result is that because of the vastness of Wallonia there will be a contract for the whole country, while the Flemish media players say they no longer need it. In the context of that asymmetry, has that been looked at with a creative glance? Can we not use the funds that are now being invested in the Flemish media market in a more efficient way, for example in digital media? There seem to be some interesting ideas there. Has the question been asked to at least investigate? The next theme is health care. It has already been cited by Mr Barbara Pas. There are big plans there too. Minister of Health Frank Vandenbroucke wants to tackle hospital funding. The file is very eye-catching. We read in the coalition agreement that you advocate not only asymmetry, but further defederalisation. Hence the negotiations or the discussions, which is not illogical, because the coalition agreement is specific but not yet super-specific. There's no record of that. There has been an interplay with Minister Vandenbroucke on asymmetry and the fact that institutional differences are not calculated. On the contrary, a number of new transfers are being created. In response to that discussion last Thursday in plenary, Minister Vandenbroucke said that it was not really the intention of this reform, that this asymmetry and the federalisation of health care is not in place and that we should look at you both for that. You say that we should be satisfied if the hospitals are better funded and the policy is better, because then it would be easier to split up. I am in favour of a better policy, but I am also in favour of a policy that is in line with reality. I do not think it is a good idea to come up with a plan on hospital funding and in no way see the difference between the situation in Flanders and Wallonia, especially for a government which once again says that it is in favour of asymmetry. I assume that you have discussed this with Minister Vandenbroucke and that he may have sent you for a walk, because it is not in the plan. Or maybe there'll be an attachment to the plan. I do not know what it is like, and it would be good if you could clarify that. Following on, what about the legislation that will be 'integrated'? That is the wording used in the coalition agreement. Who's holding the pen there? We have already questioned Minister Vandenbroucke about this in the past. He replied that we should not look at him because it belongs to the ministers for institutional reform, so both of you. Is that still the case? Knowing Minister Vandenbroucke's eagerness and professionalism, I can imagine that he might have a particular interest in that dossier. Madam President, I have two more questions concerning labour market policy and your department, Minister Verlinden. As far as labour market policy is concerned, it is enough to follow the social media of Flemish Minister Crevits to see that there is still some work to be done. She gave a very talking interview in Het Nieuwsblad, sent today and yesterday some very speaking tweets and also gave an interview this morning on Radio 1. When it comes to the mini-work deal, the little big new agreement, which everyone says will be insufficient, Minister Crevits says it wants asymmetry and that the mini-work deal is a first step, but that more is needed. That's what she said yesterday in a tweet. This morning she said that the commitment to asymmetry is important and, above all, very urgent. She also emphasised the words'very urgent'. I do not think Mrs Crevits is reassured about the asymmetric ambitions of the federal government, which are, however, contained in your coalition agreement. I assume that Minister Van Peteghem was at the table when the employment deal was concluded and the Prime Minister pointed out that there was still something in the coalition agreement, namely the promise to ensure an asymmetric policy. There is, moreover, a government in this country which has put on the table a whole list of wishes on the subject and which calls for the names of the people who are temporarily unemployed to be immediately passed on to the VDAB so that these people can be activated. That is also what the MR strongly advocates. They want to pursue a stronger activation policy. The Prime Minister said it yesterday. It is apparently all the responsibility of the Regions, but it is expected that the federal government will cooperate in an asymmetric way, but that is not the case. That is what Mrs Crevits says. This is the file that annoys me the most. We can still talk about health care in this House. We have had an exchange of views on this in the Joint Committee. Some are opposed to the division of health care, others believe that there should be re-federalisation, but at least there is another debate. On labour market policy, that's nougat balls. If we try to get that on the agenda as a separate issue, we will never be able to do so. That should not even be discussed in the Joint Committee of the Chamber and Senate. That theme is simply blocked. If we table a legislative proposal to amend the special law, then we should not even ask for an opinion from the Council of State, which is a key issue in which we can work asymmetrically. I'm not the only one saying this. I refer to Minister Crevits. That's where you raised your hand. You made a promise. Maybe you should work on that at last. Mrs Verlinden, your departments of authority are ground-based powers: police, fire brigade, civil protection, where even with a little creativity one could find examples of an asymmetric policy. I assume that you have already made that exercise for your own powers. That you should be behind other ministers, as it turns out, but of course you should not be behind the feathers. What plans do you have, Madam Secretary? If you yourself have a good example, it can only work enthusiastically with colleagues so that they can continue to implement that paragraph in the coalition agreement with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u3	My first question concerns the labour market. What was decided on Monday in the agreement on asymmetric policies in the labour market and, more specifically, on the availability of the unemployed? Do you intend to further divide the labour market in the long term? However, Madam Minister, my main question is about health care. You made remarkable statements, both in De Standaard and Le Soir. The government agreement would include regionalisation of health care. However, the agreement also states that state reform would be initiated without taboos. It is surprising that you want to continue with this regionalisation, although in opinion polls it is clear that the vast majority of our population is in favour of re-federalisation. For example, hospital directors have indicated this. 85% of them say they are in favour of a refederalisation. The lessons from the corona crisis go all that way. We need unity of command and speed, instead of fighting and palaver. The example of hospital funding shows how bad a split would be. How many Walls and Flemings are not provided in Brussels university hospitals? Then what shall we do with that? How many walls are going for heart surgery to Aalst? How many Flemings go to Liège for brain disease? Will none of that be possible anymore? Indeed, dThe current way of working is not running smoothly, but splitting it will only make it more inefficient and cost more money. For example, we need to effectively concentrate that expertise in a handkerchief-sized country. That further splitting up only makes it more inefficient. How far will we go in that division of health care that some ask? Are other fees and pharmaceutical prices applied in Wallonia and Flanders? Should Brusselsers then negotiate their own medicines prices? You say you want to bring the policy closer to the people, but is Martelaarsplein so much closer to the people than the Wetstraat? I don't think so. Rather, the first-line areas which must be localised and organized in the first and second lines should be taken into account. In order to be effective, the first-line zones need a single minister and a single policy. I think they are also asking for this. The major problem with a division of the organisation of care is that we will soon be able to get out of the discussion on the financing of our social security. Mr De Wever does not put that away. In an interview last year, he himself said that if funding and policy were to separate, this would inevitably lead to a total division in the long term. This is, of course, also the aim of a party such as the N-VA, which wants to divide the country completely, including the solidarity of our social security. We also saw this in education after the third state reform in 1989. A few years later, education was completely split up. Madam Secretary, would you like to continue the division of health care? How concrete are these plans? What's the timeline? Do you have the support of the entire government to split up health care? What is your role and the role of Minister Clarinval in this? A more homogeneous division of powers is on the table, but it can go in two directions, namely further regionalisation or re-federalisation. A lot of people ask this. It must be a discussion without taboos and we must take into account the lessons learned from two years of covid crisis. Will you also split the funding of health care? Do you realize that by continuing to regionalise, you are going against the will of a large part of the population who is a requesting party for one health minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the asymmetric policy and the representation of the Länder in the federal bodies referred to by Mrs Pas and Mr Loones, I would like to refer to our debates in this committee on 27 October and 1 December 2021. We discussed this at length. As I said at the time, we received reactions from colleagues Van Peteghem, Mahdi, Dedonder and Vandenbroucke. With regard to your questions about the discussion of the asymmetric policy dossier as a whole in the Council of Ministers, I can reply negatively, but that is not surprising either. Asymmetric policy cannot be viewed in isolation from the policy areas to which it relates. It is, of course, always inherently linked to the substantive policy areas. Health and labour market policies are the main policy areas that are eligible for asymmetric policies today. It is also precisely those themes that are explicitly mentioned in the coalition agreement. With regard to these issues, asymmetric policies must always be given concrete form by taking action in that specific area of policy. That is why it is up to the competent, federal, but also sub-state, trade ministers to give concrete effect to this. Mrs Pas, you asked what procedure is being followed and if it goes to the Council of Ministers. That is a somewhat misrepresentation of the facts, because that obviously depends on the subject and on the measures under discussion. Certain aspects of asymmetric policy can indeed be decided without, for example, the need for regulatory changes. Then it is not about decisions that need to be discussed at the Council of Ministers in full. As regards health care in particular, I have already explained in this committee of 1 December that on 12 November we received a letter from Mr Vandebroucke, in which he states, among other things, that we should provide for a representation of the Länder on the Committee on Health Care Insurance of the RIZIV, also on the board of the Board of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre and, finally, on the management committee of eHealth. In addition, it is also proposed to include asymmetry in future cooperation agreements, such as the inclusion of brake charges of delegated powers in the maximum invoice. In the long term, it seems that not all Länder will create the same personal shares or also want to provide for the same method of co-financing an inter-federal instrument with regard to the maximum invoicing, so that a policy tailored to the needs of the Länder will be appropriate. As regards vaccination and screening campaigns, federal support may also be asymmetrical. This has already happened in the past for cervical cancer vaccination on the Flemish side and colon cancer screening on the Walloon side. These points are therefore further included and implemented by the competent trade ministers at the federal and sub-state level. Mr Vandenbroucke also addressed the question of Flemish Minister Beke and the other sub-State ministers on maximum invoicing just before the turn of the year. The federal level agrees to further integrate the performance related to the powers of the Communities into the maximum invoice for the years 2022 and 2023. To this end, insurance institutions will use different counters for personal expenses, personal shares and health care expenditure of the federal government and of the Länder. These agreements are important, because they can further guarantee continuity of the rights of insured persons and their entitlement to the maximum invoice. In addition, in the field of labour market policy, it has already been pointed out how federal policy intends to answer the specific questions raised by the Flemish Government in this case, Mr Loones. This could include, for example, greater autonomy granted to the Länder in terms of the availability of job seekers, the defiscalisation of the contributions and training income granted by the Länder for disadvantaged professions, the accumulation of unemployment benefits with the regional partners, as well as the transition routes requested and the demands for more training for the temporary unemployed, the support of long-term sick people or the possibility of converting redundancy allowances into training. In December 2021, the competent federal and sub-state trade ministers decided to set up an inter-federal platform to prepare the various issues to which I have just referred technically as well. A political working group shall follow the work of that platform. Asymmetric policy is also part of the so-called labour deal, which approved the core of the federal government on Monday. At the request of Minister Van Peteghem, it was agreed that when the draft law, which will legally implement that labour deal, returns from the Council of State, the proposals of the inter-federal platform dealing with asymmetric policy, will also be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. This morning, Minister Crevits gave an interview on this subject. I fully agree with her view that it is important for fellow trade ministers to take further action on these issues and that they should also take action on them. On the basis of the figures, the needs in Flanders are different from those in Wallonia. That requires a separate agreement with the federal government. The next chapter is taxation. Minister Van Peteghem has pursued the extension of the deadline for the assisted areas and the reduced VAT rate for demolition and reconstruction work. The scope of the reduced VAT rate is extended by three tolerances for homes seriously damaged by last summer's floods. For this purpose, the circular 2021/C/104 was adopted, on an administrative concession in the context of the application of the reduced VAT rate of 6% in the event of breakdown and reconstruction of private homes in response to the storm. That circular implemented the Minister's decision to provide for an administrative concession in the context of the application of the VAT rate of 6% under the relevant provisions of the Annex to Royal Decree No. 20 on VAT rates. This circular was published on the website Fisconetplus on 7 December 2021. The decision to extend the period of the aid zones, following the economic corona impact, was taken by the Law of 4 May 2021 amending the Law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Pact of Competitiveness, Employment and Relance concerning the one-off extension of the period of application of the aid zones. That initiative met an explicit request from the Flemish Region to exceptionally extend the measure for a period of 18 months, as the declining zones were located in the Flemish Region. Both measures relating to VAT and the extension of the assisted areas originate in a demand for asymmetry based on the regions and thus constitute a concrete implementation of the Government Agreement, which refers to this. In any case, these are all examples of policy questions from the Länder, where federal policy is better adapted to the needs of the Länder and where, of course, the appropriate instrument is chosen and the usual pathways of approval are followed. I must therefore contradict the fact that nothing would happen or be achieved with regard to the agreements contained in the coalition agreement, including on the basis of the explanations I have just given. We are making efforts, but I would also like to stress that, of course, we are not yet here. Further steps need to be taken and we will do so in the coming months and years. Mr Loones, you have asked a number of other questions about asymmetric policies in a number of other policy areas, such as Minister Gilkinet's Railways 2040, the shortage of environmental judges and the overcrowding of prisons, which belong to the competence of Minister Van Quickenborne, subsidies granted by Minister De Sutter for the distribution of paper newspapers in our country, and increasing the energy capacity of windmills at sea, which falls within the competence of Minister Van der Straeten. The questions raised fall within the competence of the trade ministers concerned. I can't put myself in those files like a mother-in-law. We have asked these questions and the ministers have started to do so. Of course, we are following what is going on, but it is not what you will understand, as far as the division of powers in a federal government is concerned, that I am speaking about the specific powers of other ministers on certain initiatives. I would therefore once again advise you to address any questions on these issues to the relevant trade ministers. You then asked me, Mr Loones, what plans might be in the pipeline for asymmetric policy applied to my own areas of competence in the Interior. There are no initiatives in the pipeline on strictly asymmetric policies today. That does not mean, however, that I would like to emphasise very strongly that we do not take account of the needs or specific features of the Länder when we think about the powers of the Interior. For example, with regard to last year's floods with the creation of the federal support cell, called the CAF in French, we have provided a response to the specific needs of the Walloon region. In doing so, a specific federal measure or instrument will be based on specific needs in one country, in this case the needs arising as a result of the floods. Another area which takes account of the needs and specificity of the Länder concerns the way in which we have combated the pandemic. The regional policy can be adapted to the needs and specific requirements of those Länder, despite the measures which the federal government itself can take in the federal phase of the crisis under the federal competence in the field of civil security. For example, the Royal Decree laying down administrative police measures following the coronapandemic has provided for the possibility for the competent sub-State ministers to take measures themselves. For example, Article 23 states that the competent sub-State ministers may decide on specific conditions for the organisation of classes and schools. In accordance with the opinion of the Council of State, this may be the responsibility of the federal government as part of the federal phase, but we have taken into account the wishes of the Länder, as has often been the case in practice in the field, to lay down their own priorities and make their own choices. Finally, we are considering assessing the crisis structures for managing a crisis, such as those floods, but also other crises that we have experienced in recent years. That exercise runs in the Committee on Home Affairs, where we regularly have the opportunity to discuss it. In this respect, we are also considering the role that the Länder can play in crisis management, since in many cases or in many types of crisis they also have powers that are important for crisis management, especially in the pre- and post-crisis situations, i.e. the situation prior to an acute crisis and following an acute crisis. For example, in the event of the flood crisis, water management is a regional competence. In the case of reconstruction after the floods, housing and mobility are the responsibility of the regions. Good cooperation is therefore important. There is already a representation of the Länder in the crisis centre today. However, we must also look closely at how we integrate and structure them, so that we can develop cooperation as flawless as possible. The results of the review exercise on crisis management are expected in the summer of this year. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this in advance, including in the Committee on the Interior. I will decide on the asymmetric policy. I have also indicated this in previous committee meetings. It is important to recall that the Länder are an extremely important link in the design and implementation of asymmetric policies. It is the Land Ministers who are best placed to point out the points in the policy, in the division of powers that could be strengthened in their specific policies, whether or not through asymmetrical alignment of federal legislation or within the context of legislation, but with other accents. They can therefore appeal to their federal colleagues when implementing such an asymmetrical partial policy requires an asymmetrical or non-asymmetric change in federal legislation. In any case, this will also be addressed in the interfederal thematic working groups. The Consultative Committee decided on 2 February to set it up. In a first phase, these will be established in the areas of health, labour market policy, mobility and transport and climate and energy. In these interfederal thematic working groups, the Länder will be able to express their own needs to the relevant federal trade ministers, after which they can be followed up further. Moreover, it is in line with expectations that other thematic working groups will also be set up at a subsequent Consultation Committee, so that the scope is further widened. I would like to touch on the questions relating to the division of competences in health care and labour market policy. The government has discussed the further preparation of institutional reforms, in accordance with the agreements in the government agreement, in particular with regard to health care. The method and timing for the implementation of that passage on the homogenisation of health care at the level of federated entities were discussed in the nuclear cabinet, in the presence of myself and colleague Clarinval, both on Wednesday 19 January and Friday 11 February. Following that discussion, the mandate was given to both the Ministers of Institutional Reforms and the Minister of Health, in the area of health care, to establish contacts with the members of the nuclear cabinet and the majority to prepare the implementation of the passage in the government agreement on homogenisation of health care. This is a first but necessary step, along with all the other steps we are taking to prepare the reforms, such as the thematic working groups, the Joint Committee and the request for the sheets. These contacts with the various actors will enable the discussions to be continued. Mrs Pas, you asked in what way or to what extent the Flemish opposition will be involved in the discussions. At the moment, no concrete agreements have been reached within the government on this matter. It will also depend on the progress of the talks. However, since a transfer of powers in addition to a majority in the two language groups also requires a two-thirds majority and the federal government parties do not have that majority, it is logical that at some point there should be discussions with parties that can and wish to contribute to such a majority. That's a mathematical law. We will not deny the sunlight in that. The ultimate aim is to integrate into this legislature legislative texts, in accordance with the government agreement, in order to move towards a more homogeneous distribution of competences in the field of health care, "at a level as close as possible to the patient', without this, too, this is important that solidarity funding is touched upon. Mrs Merckx, with regard to your question as to whether funding will also be discussed, it seems logical to me that, when we talk about homogenising the material competences in the field of health care, we can also talk about how those material powers are financed. As far as I am concerned, we must start from a vision of the division of powers. We're working on that. We must then continue to implement the system of financing, taking into account, of course, the solidarity of funding. That's the sequence from which we'll work. As I said, it was decided to set up thematic interfederal working groups, with the possibility for the healthcare working group to further examine the division of competences. In addition to health care, three other thematic working groups will be set up, including on this division of competence in the field of health care. Mrs Merckx, I would like to ask you how the government's coordination and the choices made in the coalition agreement are taking place. At present, there is no indication that anyone is questioning the texts of the coalition agreement as such. We are going to work on this, and that is a work that needs to be continued. You also had questions about the asymmetric practice of labour market policy and the employment deal that was concluded. I can refer in this respect to the answers I have just given and to the Minister responsible for this matter, who will be able to go into further detail on this matter. Finally, you had a question about the majority's desire to prepare a state reform of labour market policy during this legislature. As regards the link to the employment deal, I can tell you that the labour deal, as it stands today, takes account of and is framed within the current division of powers between the Länder and the federal government. It includes the possibility of implementing these federal powers in an asymmetrical way. There is no other intention and certainly no other agreement made in the nuclear cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u5	Thank you for your answers, Madam Minister, although I expected more on a number of matters. To my question on the state of play, both as regards the asymmetric policy and the additional representation of the Länder in the federal institutions, you refer to the discussion we had in October and 1 December when discussing the policy paper. I was there. I know you said on 1 December that ministers Dedonder, Vandenbroucke, Van Peteghem and Secretary of State Mahdi were the only ones who responded to your call, but that was just my question today. We're two and a half months away. What's the status? Does that mean that besides those four, no other minister or secretary of state has responded to your call? We already knew on 1 December that they had not reached the deadline of 15 November, but we could give them 14 days respite. Does that mean they still haven't heard from them? Will you send them a raspberry again, or will you stick with that? It is quite significant about the enthusiasm to get on with this effectively, if they do not even answer your call yet. As far as the choice of a trade minister is concerned or to submit it to the Council of Ministers, you say that the possibilities depend on the file of the trade minister. However, you said yourself that you would draw up a report, a sort of overview of the outcome, of the survey with all these trade ministers, and that you would submit that report to the Council of Ministers. If these trade union ministers refuse to reply, does that mean that the report is not there at all and you are not going to the Council of Ministers with this at all? How am I supposed to interpret that? You are saying that you illustrate that with a few examples of 'asymmetric policy' you are making efforts, but I find it quite remarkable that there are no aspects of asymmetric policy for the labour market when the government finally comes to a work deal. I also find it very remarkable that the Vivaldi Government does not put forward any legislative proposals to enable this asymmetric labour market policy. This is done through legislative proposals by Mr Verherstraeten, only by CD&V. What can I tell you? That such texts are not submitted on behalf of the entire government. Mr Loones said at the beginning of his speech that he was very pleased with your interview in De Standaard, but that interview was also read on the French-speaking side, and it was very clear that they were not pleased. That is why I have referred several times in my question to the article in Le Soir. Your government partners, the MR, Ecolo, all admit that they are radically opposed to homogenising health care competences. You say you went to the nuclear cabinet with Minister Clarinval to prepare the implementation, Madam Secretary. It is still unclear to me, Minister, what is the difference between négociation and discussion, as it was mentioned in Le Soir. In Le Soir there was a deadline in the month of May that Minister Clarinval would have mentioned, but you are not pinning yourself on a deadline at all, Madam Secretary. Nor am I surprised that no agreements have yet been reached in the government to involve the opposition in this, because it will still have a lot of ground to get the noses first and foremost in the same direction in the government itself. Involvement of the opposition will therefore take a long time, I fear. I can only repeat what I said from the start of this government: a more homogeneous division of powers is unfortunately subject to interpretation by the word'more'. I'm afraid CD&V has bought a cat in the bag and is almost empty-handed, but I hope the opposite. We will certainly cooperate on the opposite, if the government ever decided to involve everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u6	Madam President, does Minister Clarinval have anything to add? There are a number of specific questions addressed to him. I am thinking of the combination of communications in the Flemish and Walloon press. We are always asking the two ministers conscientiously. Do you have any additions that might be relevant to the debate, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u7	The answer has been prepared collegially and I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u8	It is always good to see people working together and preparing content. In any case, thank you for the clarification, Minister. Madam Secretary, I have been a little complaining that I have asked the questions. I was effectively pleased with that interview in De Standaard. That's when a person starts dreaming. Sometimes it's more fun to stay in a dream. And now it's punctured again. That is the summary of what we have heard today. I have heard little voluntarism, little assertiveness to operationalize that theme asymmetry in the various areas of competence, even those that are named in the coalition agreement. The answer can rather be summarized if everyone has to sweep their own doors and so the trade ministers are looked at in the first place. You have a horizontal competence in this government. Your competence Institutional Reforms, and also Political Renewal, is a horizontal competence which gives you the right to go anywhere. The fact that you are asking ministers to report to you so that you can report to the Prime Minister proves that. I am sorry to see that this opportunity is not seized. I am not going to tear down old cows, but that was precisely why we argued that you should both become Deputy Prime Minister, because this would have given you even more authority to deal effectively with all these issues, to send not only questions and emails around that asymmetry, with memories and yet another apple, but to demand effective butter with the fish. I'm going into a few things in substance. We understand that the report on asymmetry, promised by December, will not be available, but that four ministers have given their attention, namely Mr Van Peteghem, Mr Mahdi, Mrs Dedonder and Mr Vandenbroucke. The obvious question is, of course, whether we can see that input. This seems to me to be relevant policy information, on which it is quite transparently communicated with Parliament. In this connection, I would like to ask you the question, Minister, Madam President-in-Office, to ensure that this information is transmitted to us, so that we can get on with it, including for the control of the government. I understand you're referring to the trade ministers. In the government, everyone has to get their files through. The more you deal with someone else, the less your own business will bring you in. Unfortunately, that's how it works in a government. That is not an incentive to interfere in another policy area. You go very far in your reference to trade ministers. You said at some point that labour market and health care are the main themes of asymmetry. My questions about mobility, environmental judges and so on were all put away. Of course it's not. Asymmetry can be very relevant in all these areas and not only in health care, because it happens that there is now a paragraph more explicitly in the government agreement, but also in all those other areas. A lot of paperwork is needed to get a dossier on the Council of Ministers, with a regulatory impact analysis, a kafka test and so on. Why can't an additional check be added in the government, namely the asymmetry check? What will be the impact of what is proposed here on the two Länder? When I was still working in the administration, there was a 20-page climate check, where one element had to be ticked to say that something has no climate impact, but then those twenty pages had to be printed for the file. I always thought that climatologically very wise. An asymmetry check might have a higher relevance value. It might be a suggestion to work on that further. You were talking about health care, referring in particular to the past, with the fact that there has been some asymmetry around vaccinations and so on. I would have liked to have heard a little more ambition for the future. Who will hold the pen for integrating the legislative proposals for more differentiated entities? Is that Mr Vandenbroucke or is that you? That is still not clear to me and it is relevant information. In the past, I asked Mr Vandenbroucke, who said he was not. I now read in the newspaper that you want to move forward, especially in the area of health care. Is that you? At least we know who we can ask our questions to. It is tempting to debate with Mrs Merckx, but we will do so on another forum. I would like to say, however, that health care is already very much split into the facts. It is enough to look at a number of statistics, at the prices of medical care, at supplements, at the financial situation of hospitals. Then everyone will be able to establish in an objective way that there are already two realities on the ground. Of course, there must always be very generous patient mobility. That seems obvious to me. In any case, that is what our proposals are about. Everyone must be able to have proper care. One should not be disturbed by how this is processed in the back office. We have worked that out in detail. Perhaps that can inspire both ministers. Then I come to the asymmetry in the labour market. You've listed a whole list of things that aren't in the labor deal. Well, you did bring something new there, didn't you? That's what I think is relevant information. You have thus indicated that the work deal is not yet complete and that a second reading has been agreed in the nuclear cabinet. The legislative text containing various provisions will be complemented by the outcome of the inter-federal platform. There is therefore a political agreement that the work deal is not yet complete, but will be complemented by what will be decided at that time. I think that this is a very special dynamic, because it will complement matters at second reading. I do not see how this can go hand in hand with the opinion of the Council of State, but I take the political statement very seriously. I'll follow up on this. You have listed a whole list of things that are not in the employment deal at the moment. You have announced here that this will be supplemented. That's some new information, isn't it? Now I understand a little bit better why Minister Crevits said this is the first step. I suppose she is aware of the fact that these additional asymmetric policy applications will still be processed in a regulatory and legal manner, albeit in a second reading. That will therefore be added. That's very interesting information, because it means that the mini-deal might get a little bigger or something more institutional. That's today's news, at least for me. As far as the trade ministers are concerned, I can be very brief. You said that you have the ambition to take steps over the next few months and years, but that you are not a mother-in-law. I hope not, but anyone who cooperates collectively in a government and wishes to give effect to a government agreement and a very specific policy ambition contained in it does not seem to me to be a mother-in-law. That seems to me to be a team player who wants to ensure that the coalition agreement is implemented. Once again, in view of your horizontal competence in this matter, you have just the freedom to be at least interested in what all the other ministers are doing and to raise your finger at least very regularly. That is, of course, somewhat ambiguous, as the government never fully meets. If you had been Deputy Prime Minister, you could always have asked about the asymmetry. Your government doesn't come together physically, and that's why you're missing opportunities. I can imagine it's not fun to see that pass. Then we see Ministers Gilkinet or Vandenbroucke coming up with plans and we can ask ourselves why they are not implementing them. If one is not in the core, it is all difficult to follow. However, I would like once again to express the hope that the government has the ambition to implement its coalition agreement in this area, which was put on the market at the time as the biggest CD&V trophy. I'll conclude with the authorities, your own authority. You say that you have nothing yet, but that does not mean that it cannot change in the future. It's time to confess colour, Madam Secretary. If the tone of your interview is also the tone of your policy, if it is effective your ambition to be a leading force in the government and make sure that the CD&V trophy finally gets some meat on the skeleton, then I don't think it's a bad idea to start with your own powers. You need to address this with more ambition than just having events. Of course, the water problems have been dealt with and, of course, they have been dealt with in the places where they are, but that is not yet an asymmetric policy. We have had this discussion in the past: the government, of course, is playing with that term. I found it particularly striking that when you spoke of the corona phase, you said that you clearly respected the powers of education. That would still be wrong. That's a state authority. That's not what asymmetry is about. Asymmetry is about the federal powers that one is going to apply in a different way territorially. Asymmetry is not about respecting the fact that education is already a part state competence. So again, I'll do my eyes in the morning and read the interview in the newspaper again tomorrow. Then I hope to be able to dream a little bit again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Of course, it doesn't reassure me. You adhere to what you said in De Standaard and thus confirm that you also want to look at the financing of healthcare. Most of the funding is made up of social security, which is very important in our country. This is what keeps our country together and our solidarity. How are you going to look at the financing without touching solidarity? You don't explain that at all. I also feel that you are virtually alone in the foreground. Mr. Clarinval is rather quiet right now. His party, of course, is not that of solidarity in my view either. I must say that this certainly does not reassure me, and there is also a great deal of concern in civil society among the people themselves. A lot of people don't agree with it at all. If we then see what is happening in Flanders itself, then that is not always of the most solidarity. Think of saving on child benefit or saving in education. The health insurance is also in a very unsolidar way. Everyone has to make the same contribution. This is not a matter of solidarity at all, because this contribution is independent of the level of income. That's what I'm really worried about. We are therefore going to work with the PVDA to stop the division of social security. Secondly, you say that you have not seen any signs that anyone would not agree and that it is in the coalition agreement. The government agreement indeed refers to the federated entities in terms of health care. But it also says that you want to go to greater efficiency and that you need to deal with it without taboos. In my view, then, we must also make use of moving insight and question things. As far as the government is concerned, I would nevertheless like to quote Mr Jasper Pillen, Member of Open Vld, who is still a government party. As a result of your interview, he said that when people claim that we are going to be more efficient, we are going to split further powers blindly. In his view, the most important thing we need to do in the case of necessary state reform is to put efficiency first. So it is clear that some people in the government, but also a lot of ordinary people, when we look at the covid pandemic policy, have said that we should go towards homogenisation, but that should actually go in the other direction. I can only advise you to listen to that and to step away from the bifurcation fetishism with an open mind. The fact that certain governments and certain parties have already decided to do so means that we are going to look at reality from that perspective. You have given a number of examples of how asymmetric policies are being implemented in health care and how you will take a number of steps. That really shows that it doesn't work today. First of all, it's a very log thing. You are talking about the KCE and eHealth, in which the Länder must be involved. That only makes the structures more cumbersome and slower. Secondly, it's more and more complicated. Let me give you the example of the maximum invoicing, which is also a problem that has not been solved. And if it gets solved, it'll be something very complicated. Thirdly, we always see fights instead of cooperation. We can see that in the field of covid vaccination and in the fact that it was decided that the pharmacists can vaccinate, but then Minister Vandenbroucke says that he does not want to pay for it, because the Länder have to pay for it. You also mentioned cervical cancer. That's a good example. Should prevention and treatment be dealt with differently for a woman living in Antwerp than for a woman living in Charleroi? No, it must be dealt with in the same way. It concerns both prevention, vaccination and early treatment of cancer. That must be one policy. Are there any more cases of cervical cancer in Antwerp than in Charleroi? Let primary care then develop a local policy to better reach certain women, but you will not do so by completely dividing the prevention and treatment of cervical cancer between Flanders and Wallonia. And then we don't know what we're going to do with Brussels. The same applies to hospital reform. It is clearly a domain in which a split will not help us any further. You did not, of course, talk about how a division of hospitals should actually happen. This would only lead to greater inefficiency. It is often argued that labour market policy needs to be completely different. The unemployment rate in Antwerp, for example, is on average as high as in Wallonia. I do not know whether we should have the same policy in Antwerp as in Wallonia, and in Walloon Brabant the same policy as in Flanders. The big problem with labour market policy is that there is a shortage of good, quality jobs. Going on Voka's call to hunt down sick people and have bad jobs done is not what the Flemings need. After all, we need good, quality jobs there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u10	Last time I caught bone. I'm trying to do it another way now, by referring to the Jeunes Forum. We had an interesting hearing about lowering the voting age to 16 years, in which the Flemish, French and German-speaking youth organisations were discussed. The Jeunes Forum regretted that they were not involved in the drafting of that bill and that they could only now give their input. I liked that they claimed their place at the table and would like to save them from another disappointment. Soon you will launch an online citizen survey. It would be a shame if our young people were not involved. In this connection, I suggest that you exchange views with the young people about the questionnaire, as soon as you have determined it, before the questioning starts. If you and your passerby want to deliver this questionnaire to Parliament, you are always welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u11	Minister, in an interview with the newspaper Le Soir, you talked about the online consultation that will be organised on possible state reform. You indicated that people should not answer yes or no to a series of questions, but rather that the idea was to listen to their ideas and requests. Why will specific questions not be asked? For example, on regionalization of health care, the exercise would be interesting. According to the Soir's large barometer, 7 out of 10 Belgians want to reunite health care. Would it not be interesting to know the views of citizens in your online survey? If you ask this question and the citizens answer the same thing as in the Soir barometer, will you give up the regionalisation project? How will the choice of topics to be discussed following this in the House be made? What quantitative criteria will be put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u12	Mrs Merckx, Mr Loones, as I have explained several times, university experts are responsible for developing the content of the platform, namely questions and contextualisation. Specifically, the DBP Partners consortium consists of Tree company, Indiville and Levuur, companies with expertise in civic participation. They also work with a large group of university experts, including Patricia Popelier of the University of Antwerp, Jean-Benoît Pilet of the ULB and Dave Sinardet of the VUB. Their mission started on 10 January last. It was crucial for the government to call on experts to draw up the questions and contextualisation. Our institutions and their functioning are complex and difficult to grasp for a very large majority of our fellow citizens. It is essential that the themes are made understandable and accessible to all respondents. The whole population over the age of 16, so not just the most informed people, should be able to contribute, take ownership of the themes, understand all the questions and answer them. Herein lies the complexity of the exercise: enabling as many people as possible to participate and collect as many high-quality contributions as possible, in order to meet the challenge of giving Belgian society the floor as a whole. The aim of the university experts is therefore to strike a balance in the formulation of questions and contextualization, an essential element in teaching. It is therefore not intended to submit the questions in advance to youth organisations or other organisations. We are in contact with various organizations. Every actor in our society will play a role in the success of this project and represents an important intermediary to mobilise citizens. The communication strategy also contains what is called a via strategy. It is about calling on partners such as associations and experts to reach out to certain target groups. The aim is to activate key actors. In particular, organisations and associations will be able to mobilise their own members to participate in the consultation on the online platform. Mrs Merckx, the questions that will be asked on the online platform are currently being drawn up and will soon be delivered to us. As we explained at the previous committee meetings, this contract was awarded to university experts, who have to base themselves on lists of proposed themes in the annex to specifications 1146. Their working approach and methodology were discussed by the Scientific Committee. Very soon, the contextualisation and the questions will be presented and discussed with the Scientific Committee. As regards the type of questions that will be asked, it is up to the university experts who are responsible for the task of finding the best approach each time to address the different issues, in particular by starting from concrete cases. However, it is not intended to ask yes-no questions which would only give rise to statistics. After all, I would like to point out that the online platform is neither a poll nor a process to approve or reject the government's existing project. In any case, the results and the report cannot be considered or proposed as representative. Therefore, a certain degree of caution is needed in the preparation of questions and the interpretation of the results, which explains the recourse to university experts. Moreover, as regards the follow-up of the online platform in the Chamber, it will be interesting that some issues can be explored and discussed, in particular in the Deliberative Committees. However, that is an initiative of the Chamber, in implementation of the coalition agreement. The government is willing to assist in the implementation, but the Chamber will determine the issues that will be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u13	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Minister. It can be summarised as "no'. The question was whether you would involve youth organisations in the preparation of the questionnaire. The answer is no. I find that contradictory. You appoint experts, but it's important to know if young people, and all the others, can understand those questions. There seems to me to be a very obvious way of checking in advance whether this is the case, whether it is actually understandable for young people. You can do that by asking them in advance, but you obviously do not intend to do that. You also want to activate and mobilise key actors to work with. The easiest way to mobilise people is to involve them. In that respect, I fear that this is a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u14	Mr. Secretary, this is exactly a joke. You are organising a public consultation on state reform, but you say that it is not the intention to find out what people are thinking about it and not to find out what they think the government should do in that area. Then what's the point? That is not clear to me at all. A lot of polls have already been conducted. In June 2020, 71 percent of the population were in favour of re-federalisation of health care. 69 percent of the Flemings are for and even the voters of the Flemish Interest and the N-VA want a refederalisation. In November 2020 it appeared that 86 percent of hospital directors want a refederalisation of health care. In May 2021, a poll of the VRT showed that a total of 86 percent of the Flemings want more Belgium or a full refederalisation. Only 12% of the Flemings want everything to be decided on the Flemish level. That's obvious. The people support the state reforms, the divisions, and you don't plan. They feel the same way, but you will apparently organise an online consultation in which that question cannot be asked. So people must not say what they think of the government plans. That's a really missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u15	The budget is in a federally difficult position, and the major shifts do not seem to be coming immediately. So one might think that this government is at least looking after the little ones and that the federal government's resources are thus being spent on federal tasks and assignments. In this respect, I noticed that Minister Gilkinet proposed a plan in which everyone could submit projects to boost road safety. This is a noble objective for the sake of clarity, but it does not seem to commit itself so much to the division of powers in this country. I think it's interesting that every government specializes in its own powers. Did you talk to your fellow minister about this? Is there a procedure within your government? This is perhaps a suggestion to ensure that policy measures are taken by the appropriate policy-maker?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u16	As you know, the jurisdictional rules are subject to public policy. They must therefore be respected by all. As you rightly point out, it is important that all measures, decisions and legal work are taken or carried out by the competent government level. It is primarily up to the Minister responsible to ensure that he or she respects the rules of jurisdiction between the Federal Government and the Communities and the Regions. You said just now that I have a horizontal competence, but even a horizontal competence in the area of institutional reform does not mean that we can play referee and repeat the work of fellow ministers on the assessment of respect for the division of powers. If a decision was taken which exceeded that allocation of powers, it is clear that the usual means can be used, as well as remedies to the Council of State or the Constitutional Court. In addition, this is something we have known for a long time, a conflict of interest may be brought, in application of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, when a Community or a region is of the opinion that a decision or even a draft decision of the federal government is seriously prejudiced. You will say that this is not new and that you already know all this, but it is sometimes not wrong to apply existing recipes to initiatives that are being taken today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic705x.u17	The legislation is indeed clear. A minister should confine himself to his duties. My hope is above all that you, your cabinet and your CD&V colleagues will work actively on this, because before a file arrives on the government table, there have already been IKW's. We need to intervene sufficiently quickly in advance so that we do not end up in a remedial phase. Thank you for your answer, but as announced, I will do my asymmetry tour again, on the basis of your answer. I'll pass that message on to your colleagues. Maybe that'll help you at those interkabinette meetings.
