ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u1	Have a good year first, Mr Secretary of State! It would be nice if we could manage the asylum crisis. And it would be very nice if things were to move at European level, for Europe, for the people, for Belgium and for the government. Of course, the latter isn't really a priority for me. I have some questions about something that intrigued me. An article in the De Tijd newspaper in mid-December, by Mrs Sarah Lamote, with the headline "Mahdi refused thousands of places to sleep for asylum seekers" attracted my attention. The article deals with the supply of places in different stages. In the context of the asylum shelter, Mrs De Block has issued a number of tenders in order to involve private partners in the provision of asylum reception. In total, 5,000 places have been offered. As far as I understand, the call for tenders was made at the time by Mrs De Block, but you shut it down in the spring. In the very last phase, you have decided not to go further. Everything was stopped without too much communication. In your defence, you refer to a negative opinion from the Finance Inspector and to a negative opinion from the Minister for the Budget. That's how I understood it. You were in a period of luxury then, because in spring 2021 there was no asylum crisis, no need for extra places. On the contrary, everything went smooth and easy. Now, of course, you are in a very different situation. Then the fact that 5,000 places have been lost makes it extra acidic. It now comes back to you like a boomerang that one has not continued with the tender that has been running for two years and is in the very last phase. Can you explain that? You also reacted very strongly on Twitter. That's your temper. I like people with temperament, so that's definitely not the problem. There's a lot of people like that in politics. That gives color and that at least makes things clear. You said it was fake news and the information wouldn't be correct. So I would have liked some clarification on the state of play. Mrs. De Block has started working with private partners in the asylum shelter. That may be a little ideological, I admit, but it is also a matter of principle. I have continued this and have had both positive and negative experiences with it. However, I also have positive and negative experiences with the NGOs in terms of reception. In a diverse pallet of reception, I think the private partners should know their place. I have the impression that this principle is under pressure. I have the impression that this government doesn't really like it anymore. In addition to explaining the state of play, I would also like to ask you what your view is on the private partners throughout the care network. Are you behind this or do you not think it is added value? That is also what the private partners want to know, especially where this story is actually going.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u2	For months, this government has been looking for additional reception capacity for asylum seekers. At the end of November, an article appeared in De Tijd showing that you, Secretary of State Mahdi, rejected a reception offer from largely private partners. You then claimed that the journalist of De Tijd would have spread disinformation. Is it true that you refused that offer? If so, why? What is your claim based on that the journalist would spread disinformation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, the involvement of private partners was introduced by Secretary of State De Block at the time, as Mr Francken said. In 2019 and 2020, some tenders were put on the market, some of which were allocated, but several others were not. Allow me to mention some of those tenders specifically. In Etterbeek a tender was awarded to G4S, but it was discontinued after twelve months and management was transferred to Samusocial. In Kalmthout there were 120 places, also assigned to G4S, but actually that location never opened because the local mayor stopped it. I have heard from G4S that the loss there is between EUR 600,000 and EUR 700,000. A settlement had to be signed with Fedasil, as staff had already been recruited. G4S has left a very harsh feeling and they have also suffered a loss. There were also several assignments in 2020. By order 2020/001 a total of 10 centres were awarded, in particular four to G4S, three to Corsendonk and three to Umami. However, only four reception initiatives have been opened. Mr Secretary of State, why didn't the other centres open, even though there was a need for shelter and those private partners could have helped? In an article in De Tijd you refer to the Inspector of Finance. Did you also raise that problem with Secretary of State Eva De Bleeker? An inspector of Finance is independent, but it is not part of his job to determine the policy that you will implement together with the government. At the end of last year, Fedasil put a tender on the market. On a Monday, that tender was suddenly sent to private partners, asking for an answer within 48 hours. For a company it is very difficult to answer such a question within 48 hours. The reception centres concerned should be fully up and running within three months, which is also very difficult to achieve and, among other things, dependent on the building. Were you aware of that ledger? How do you feel about a private company having to respond within 48 hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u4	Mr President, my best wishes to all the members of the committee. As far as the actua debate is concerned, the reception network currently has some 30,000 reception sites spread across the country. Some places are clearly temporary because the duration is limited for contractual reasons. For example, there are 2,500 places that have a planned closing date in 2022. I believe that it is not a new fact for you that most centres are of a temporary nature. There are 1,550 shelters managed by private partners. It was said that there would be a taboo against private partners and that we would oppose them. There's 1,550. Umami, Svasta and G4S. Fedasil has regular meetings with these partners. These reception places via private partners are the result of a public invitation to tender under the previous government. Their duration was limited to 12 months, twice renewable by 3 months. We are extending these shelters in order to be able to use them for the maximum period of 18 months. There are also lesser sides to working with private partners. They are mainly of a financial nature. I'll come back to that later. The need for shelters remains high. It is therefore not a taboo for me to work with private partners to create them. I do not know why we would not use the resources provided by the private sector in times of crisis of care, when there are people who are in need and who are entitled to care. The reality is that if there is no crisis, we must also see that we are making the right choices between the partners with which we work. The cost of a shelter plays a very important role in this. If that is not the case, then that is new information for me, but I assume that the questioners will be happy to take that into account. It is indeed correct that in Time there was a theorem that meant a distortion of reality. We have pointed out Time and Time has adapted the article a bit. This article was based on a number of false assumptions, which led to wrong conclusions being drawn. For example, the first phase of the award of a framework agreement for buffer sites showed that the private partners would put forward only limited possibilities for capacity expansion. I will clarify this in detail later. In particular, existing public procurement sites were offered as a matter of urgency with a view to incorporating them into the framework agreement. I repeat: existing public contracts are offered as a matter of urgency to fit into the framework agreement. An existing center would therefore be fitted and offered as a new center. If this is the case, even the Belgian budget will be fixed very quickly. It is therefore by no means correct that the private partners would be able to achieve 5,000 additional reception places in an instant. Moreover, the question arises as to whether these private partners would be able to achieve new reception capacity in the short term. Fedasil and its structural partners encountered a number of problems, which apply to different operators and thus also to private operators. This involves a shortage of material to operate a site, building materials and computer science. There is a shortage of staff to manage shelters. In order to be able to open a reception centre, of course, we also need staff, and we need to find it in time. We know that this is more difficult in certain regions than in others, given the shortage of labour. Fedasil and its structural partners are now starting up by temporarily relocating staff from other reception centres. However, they have dozens of reception centres scattered across the country. The private partners have four together. Resistance of mayors who have an important role................................................................................................................................................................................................ There was no offer of places on my desk that I could decide whether or not to create them. To clarify this even more clearly, let me first outline how we have come to these private places. It was indeed under the previous government that different types of procurement were launched to create reception places through private actors. Under Minister De Block, the Council of Ministers of 14 November 2019 decided to seek shelters from the private actors as a matter of urgency. In November 2019, the Minister agreed to seek a maximum of 3,500 places from the private partners. To this end, a first public invitation to tender was launched on 24 November as a matter of urgency. We then arrived at the opening of a total of 884 places in Marcinelle, Kalmthout and Etterbeek. Since there were not enough public procurement places, the enthusiasm was not very great, a second public invitation to tender was launched on 7 January 2020 as a matter of urgency, eight of which were awarded sites and four sites called up directly, namely Spa, Jalahay, Hasselt and Liège, for a total of 1,435 places. For all these sites there is a duration of twelve months, twice renewable with three months and a notice period of six months. After a maximum of 18 months, the centres should therefore close down. As I have already mentioned, the sites that are open today are places created by this public procurement in urgent need. It is, of course, a very peculiar argument that it is said that the government has tendered 3,500 places and that the private sector has thus offered 3,500 places, quod non. In the tender, 3,500 places were asked to be created, but the result was that 884 places were created. However, it is said from certain sectors that there was an offer. I like to give the facts as they are. In addition to the urgent public procurement, the previous government also launched an open call for tenders for structural buffer sites on 15 February 2019. That slope meant that Fedasil could conclude agreements with private partners for the creation of buffer spaces that could be activated if necessary. Unlike urgent public procurement, which was limited to 3,500 reception places in total, structural public procurement did not limit the number of places that could be contracted. The procedure would take place in two stages. For a first phase, firms were able to manage without offering specific reception facilities. They'll say they're interested. It was only after the framework agreement was awarded that they were able to offer concrete buffer positions in a second stage. But the procedure has never reached the second stage. The first stage of the procedure was still ongoing at the beginning of 2021. In the meantime, an opinion had to be requested from the Treasury Inspectorate and it gave a negative opinion on the continuation of the procedure, which was confirmed in an appeal to the Secretary of State for the Budget. A new public invitation to tender had therefore to be launched. It was therefore not possible to proceed with the award of that structural public contract. Since we were still in the first phase of the process launched in early 2019 in 2021, it is doubtful whether a new public procurement for structural buffer sites could have provided solutions by early 2021. The claim that I was in the position to allow and use places is therefore absolutely incorrect. This would have led me to disregard all the legal provisions on public procurement, should those places have already been there. One can ask for places, but it is something else in reality, when it comes to concrete numbers. I would also point out that cooperation with the private partners is not always positive. Despite the 60-day activation period, there was still a great deal of delay in the effective opening of reception sites. I do not always think that cooperation with the private partners and the local authorities is positive either, because from a purely economic perspective there was not enough room for private partners to make additional efforts in consultation with local authorities to ensure good cooperation. That's one of the elements that can play along. Moreover, it is not illogical for the private partners to reason from an economic perspective, whereas politicians are asking to ensure that local authorities are taken into account. That could create a tension field. Each reception centre has its own specificity, which sometimes means that things need to be organized that cannot all be provided with specifications. This does not always make pragmatic cooperation clear. Finally, as I have just said, the places through private partners are significantly more expensive than the places where Fedasil could use its own centres or partners. Of course, in times of crisis, or even apart from that, there is a need for partners who can offer places that do not cost more than necessary. You will not see me turning this into a taboo, but again, given that it is significantly more expensive, I hope that no one is looking for places with a purely economic perspective, which do not always make it easy for us economically. Thus, the public procurement of buffer sites did not yield anything, but it was decided to invest in a more resilient reception network, in cooperation with Fedasil's structural partners. Contrary to what used to be the case, the government decided not to create a fictitious buffer in a tender, but a real buffer with physical, available places that can be activated when needed, and therefore approved on 16 July 2021 the creation of 5,400 buffer places. Those places are ambitious, but also necessary to have a buffer. That buffer is more important than the buffer of 1,000 places initially provided by the previous government. That buffer is also necessary as an insurance principle in order to be able to do what we need to do, even in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u5	Your answers merely confirm my question about hearings. You say they sold fried air and that those were virtual places. You say that it is not all as I think it is or as we have heard it. The people who offer it therefore have the right to be heard by the Chamber. We'll put one next to the other. Open the first floor of Kalmthout, which is sixty places. You could use it. You opened 60 seats in Brussels yesterday. You may also be able to talk to the absolute majority CD&V mayor about this. Well, that's a problem. You call Kalmthout, that was offered but not opened. Then open those seats. You say it's virtual, because they're already open and they're being sold again. That's wind. Calm wood, however, is not open. See if that's possible. You say that the Secretary of State for the Budget followed the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate in the spring. I'll question the Secretary of State about that case. How exactly that is seen from that side, intrigues me. A negative opinion from the Finance Inspector, or even a negative opinion from the Secretary of State for the Budget, does not mean that it will remain that way when pushed forward. I have often experienced that they were not with us, but it is ultimately the Council of Ministers that can overrule if there are sufficient good arguments. An asylum crisis as we are experiencing today is a good argument. That's what I've experienced myself. I'd be surprised if that were different now. You say that the cost price is also an argument. May I remind you that you yourself state that you have EUR 520 million at your disposal. A little honesty may be: you will not tell me that you are awake from the cost of shelter? In addition, you say that the reception by private partners is not taboo. There are indeed problems, including with the local authorities. I share the analysis that it is always more difficult to open private initiatives in municipalities where certain parties provide the mayor. But that doesn't make it impossible. So, you don't think it's a taboo, but it's probably a coincidence that it appears just a few days after the article in the tender you wrote out to give private partners the opportunity to offer places, they got 48 hours to register and had to be operational after 14 days. Consequently, no private partner has registered. You cannot expect a private partner to be able to fill in such a large tender at 48 hours and open on 14 days. I believe that there has been discussion in the government about that article and it has been decided that attention should be paid to the private partners. So you put out that tender, but with a threshold so high that no one could register. During the hearings, we will look at the exact nature of the situation in detail. My final point concerns the current situation in Spa. You must pay a penalty payment of hundreds of thousands of euros to the city council of Spa. With the knife on your throat, you have instructed the private care provider to hand over the operation to Fedasil on 1 March, which will run the centre itself. At the moment, your services put pressure on the private care partner in Spa to do so, presumably on behalf of Fedasil... if this is not the case, it is best to contact their management quickly. The practices used for this are very bad. Do you support that? Are you behind that? That's what I'd like to know. Mr President, I will send you an e-mail later to ask that the next working arrangements should be discussed in order to allow the hearings to take place. In such a story, in which such matters are told, a contradictory debate is always good and it is good that the other side, which does not really have the right to speak, should also be heard. We'll see what comes out of these hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has become a well-known game. I too would find it quite interesting to be able to put both stories together in concrete terms. However, we must be careful not to lose sight of the essentials of this well-being game, in particular that the current asylum system is completely bankrupt and that it is no longer working. There are already 30,000 shelters in our country, but we are still anxious to increase reception capacity. That should set off a lot of alarm bells. We urgently need to stop the influx, including the asylum influx, and drastically increase the outflow. Instead of creating additional reception capacity here, we need to see if we can create additional reception capacity in the region. Mr Mahdi, you say that the questioners are happy to take into account the cost of migration. That's right. I also have a number of questions about this later, including an in-depth study which identifies the full cost of asylum and migration in all possible policy areas. Also for the shelter there is only one form that is really cheap and offers us what we need. That's shelter in our own region. In this way all discussions and wells-nothing games can be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, it is good that we are holding this topical debate, because it puts things in a different perspective. It's a good thing you want to keep working with private partners. I think this is one of the options to create additional capacity. However, I also understand that private partners are not always able to offer the number of places requested. You yourself gave the example of the 3,500 requested places, of which only 1,400 to 1,500 could be effectively completed. I would also like to know why the private partners are no longer able to offer. Private partners sometimes have a better view of other possible buildings than Fedasil, which often turns to simply the Directorate of Buildings or Defence. It seems to me normal that recourse to private partners is more expensive than organising self-employed care. They themselves bear the risk, including through outsourcing to third parties. If I have to hire a consultant for a particular assignment in my municipality, it is of course more expensive than if I would do it myself. The quality might be better, too. I understand that the private partners are subject to quality control and that they are considered to be good. As far as the Finance Inspectorate is concerned, I follow Mr Francken's reasoning: a negative opinion does not mean that we cannot push through. If I do not have the approval of my financial director in my municipality but still want to continue, I sometimes do so as mayor without his consent, in consultation with my colleagues, and a delivery order is drawn up. That's how it works. In the next negative opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate, perhaps you can consult with your colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, or possibly refer the matter to the government. You did not answer about Spa and why the transfer to Fedasil, but perhaps you can explain that. If not, I'll put an oral question on it next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, in mid-December it became known that Belgium has called on EASO to help cope with the rising asylum flow. In the short term, the European Agency will supply residential containers for the reception of asylum seekers and will also provide staff. In this respect, you signed an operational plan with Executive Director Nina Gregori of EASO, which will be rolled out in the coming weeks and months. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. How many residential containers are we talking about, exactly? How many employees will EASO make available? What exactly will their task package consist of? By what date will the operational plan be rolled out? How is this financed? Does Belgium make a financial contribution in this respect or does it have any other performance against it? Do you intend, for example, to use even more support from EASO in the future, and if so, for what purpose? If we are well informed, this is the first time that EASO has carried out such an operation in a Member State that is not at the external borders. Do you have any knowledge of similar applications from other EU Member States? What is the position of the European 'frontline states', which stand in the way of the preservation of national sovereignty, with regard to the transformation of EASO into an independent asylum agency with more powers, more money and more manpower?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u9	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, the operational plan signed by the Executive Director of EASO Nina Gregori and myself will be rolled out in the coming weeks. There are two actions planned, each with their own finality. A maximum of 150 containers are provided for in a first phase. These are both residential and supporting containers. This number can be increased at a later stage by a further 250 containers, which can once again have both a residential and a supportive destination. A maximum of 100 EASO staff will be deployed. Given the urgency, I asked EASO to roll out the plan as soon as possible. The operational plan shall be financed from European funds through EASO. Belgium does not provide any additional financial contribution to the plan nor any other consideration. In other words, we call for European solidarity, so that we also show solidarity with other Member States. This cooperation therefore saves us from costs that are otherwise borne by the Belgian authorities. I assume that most Members of this House agree. We all know that we are contributing to and investing in Europe. We also know that some countries receive more of this contribution than others. Given that we invest in Europe and EASO offers the means to invest in shelter and even cover the costs, I would not know why I, in my capacity as Secretary of State, would not use these resources. This is the first time that Belgium has called on EASO. The evaluation of the operational plan will determine whether such support can be repeated in the future. Personally, I am very curious to see what the evaluation will show. However, I hear colleagues from other Member States saying that the Belgian example is interesting to take over. However, it is not for me to give details of Member States' policies in this area. I hope that many of them are curious about what this will mean in Belgium. In any case, I have noticed what it has meant for Greece, where EASO has also started to help. I have also seen the way in which, with these European funds, Europe is taking responsibility for a policy that expects Europe to work on other aspects of migration policy, such as strengthened external borders and screening at the external borders. Cooperation on asylum and reception policies is also expected. In this respect, EASO's commitment is not unwise. The European Council, in which all Member States are represented and have a vote, approved the establishment of the European Asylum Agency in accordance with the applicable rules of European law, to which all Member States are required.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u10	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I hope that the containers can be reserved for the countries of origin just in time before it is too late. Perhaps they could be spent more usefully there than here in Belgium? However, it may be too late in the meantime. However, this could be an interesting pilot project. Maybe we should introduce it. You mentioned the euros and the tax money yourself, because you undoubtedly knew that I would do it myself. Indeed, there is no region in Europe that gives up more euros, pays more tax money and makes a larger net contribution to the European Union than Flanders. So it would only be wrong if, when the need is high, we could also get a few euros back from the pot to which we have contributed most of the time. At the same time, we must realise that we are not only giving euros to the European Union, but also sovereignty. When it comes to our asylum and migration policies, this must be done in a very vigilant way, preferably not even if it depends on me. That's what I'm worried about. I hope you share a number of concerns at least. With regard to strengthening the external borders, which EASO would also be responsible for, you will need to consult with your Green and Ecolo colleagues. After all, when I look at the resolution that we discussed here in committee yesterday, they absolutely disagree with it. They simply want to completely erase the external borders. Maybe there's another kink in the cable and you should take a look at that kink?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u11	On 21 December 2021, the European Commission approved an envelope of an additional EUR 560 million of aid to refugees in Turkey. This figure would be part of a package of more than EUR 3 billion and would be allocated up to 2024. In July 2021, the European Heads of State or Government had already approved an actual extension of the so-called Turkey deal. In addition, funds would also be provided for countries such as Lebanon and Jordan. Up to 2024, this would amount to a total amount of EUR 5.7 billion, of which EUR 3.5 billion would be for Turkey. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm that the European Commission approved an envelope of EUR 560 million, which forms part of a wider package of EUR 3.5 billion to 2024? Is it true that funds are also provided for Lebanon and Jordan? If so, what amount is it? The original deal provided that for every Syrian illegally arrived in Greece who was sent back to Turkey, one would be taken by legal route to Europe. You have quoted that one-on-one rule a number of times. Every time, I have to restrain myself, because I suspect you know that that rule doesn't work. In practice, it appeared that this one-on-one rule was simply not applied by Turkey. Between 21 March 2016 and June 2021, a total of 2,140 illegal migrants were reported to have been returned under the Turkey deal, while in the same period of time there were no less than........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's not a one-on-one rule, that's a one-on-ten rule. We've been put in the bag. What will happen to correct this imbalance? Is the one-to-one principle maintained? What guarantees are built in this time to enforce them in the future? Will the one-to-one principle of enlargement also apply to non-Syrians, such as Afghans? Over the past year, Greece has repeatedly denounced the fact that Turkey has failed to comply with its commitment to take back the rejected asylum seekers. What guarantees does Turkey offer, now that the European Commission has released a first envelope, that it will keep its promise in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u12	Mr Van Langenhove, the June 2021 European Council has indeed decided to continue support for refugees and host communities in the period 2021-2024. The continuation of financial support for the reception of refugees has never really been under discussion. This gives the refugees in Turkey a decent reception and the migratory flows from Turkey remain under control. You speak of 'one in one' and 'one in ten', but in reality there is an evolution when comparing the figures of ten years ago or even a year ago with the figures of today on the Turkish route. It cannot therefore be said that cooperation with Turkey has not produced any results in this area, but I understand the point you want to make. The continuation of this support therefore also serves the interests of the European Union. The funds under the EU Facility for Refugees had already been committed. This was a total package of EUR 5.7 billion, of which EUR 3.535 billion is foreseen for Turkey. The remaining EUR 3 billion can be used in the period 2021-2024. At the end of 2021, the European Commission adopted two decisions amounting to the EUR 560 million to which you referred. Of these, EUR 530 million will be used to support the organisation of inclusive and quality education for refugees residing in Turkey. We know how important that is. Look at the implementation of the Dublin rules in Greece. The European Court of Justice sometimes takes into account the lack of integration opportunities in Greece. Investing in opportunities in Turkey will enable people to build a life in Turkey and not to flee to Europe to be taken care of here. The remaining EUR 30 million will be used to further address migration and border management problems. In concrete terms, the funds go towards improving standards in reception centres in Turkey, improving infrastructure at Turkish airports and strengthening Turkish migration management. Earlier in 2021, an amount of EUR 325 million was also allocated to support basic needs. In addition to funding for Turkey, funds are also provided for other countries in the region where many refugees, especially Syrian refugees, are received. The figures have already been mentioned a number of times. There are 3.6 million refugees in Turkey, 1.6 million in Pakistan and so on. It is about resources that address the humanitarian emergency. In this context, the Commission has presented a proposal for continued support to refugees and their host communities in Lebanon, Jordan, Syria and Iraq for the period 2021-2024. Recently, envelopes were approved under the Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation Instrument, to improve the refugee situation in Lebanon, 90 million, in Jordan, 29 million, in Syria, 41 million, and in Iraq, 75 million. The conclusions of the March and June European Councils do not call for the 2016 EU-Turkey Declaration to be amended, but rather to focus more on further financial support for Syrian refugees throughout the region. We also know that many Syrians come to Europe and Belgium and knock at the door of the Little Castle. If we can help people with humane and decent care in the region, with a vision for the development of a future there, then we must do so. The one-on-one rule is maintained, but more attention needs to be paid to the return to Turkey. The return from Greece was problematic during the first years of the agreement, partly due to the lack of asylum procedures there. Recently, covid has made things even more difficult. New diplomatic agreements have been made between the EU and Turkey. The European Union and the Member States continue to urge Turkey to implement that agreement. The one-on-one rule applies to Syrians. Nationals of the other countries which have irregularly entered the EU through Turkey are covered by the 2014 EU-Turkey Readmission Agreement. If they are in Turkey, they can benefit from European support for refugees, provided that they are registered there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, when it comes to reception in your own region, you will of course always find a partner in the Flemish interest. We are very much in favour of this. The so-called Turkey deal does not say that there should be a good evolution of that deal, it says that there is a one-to-one arrangement and that it should be applied. If there are not enough guarantees for that, and I have to say that the right guarantees were not given even today, then I assume that there is some sort of unwritten agreement, that this one-on-one arrangement is simply ignored and used as some kind of fig leaf to mask that it is simply not a good deal. It is used to spawn center parties and right-wing parties to swallow the deal, while the only good part of the deal is not actually applied or almost not applied. You say that we should pay more attention to the return to Turkey. Does that mean that it is actually our own responsibility, that we do not apply it properly, that we do not send them back to Turkey enough? If that is the case, if it is indeed our own responsibility that it should not be applied one-on-one, then this must be done urgently. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u14	Mr Segers, the judicial investigation is under way. We are now waiting for the results. On my question, the Foreign Affairs Office (DVZ) will consider itself a bourgeois party in this matter. In this way, we are not only sending out a clear signal that we are taking this abuse seriously, but also giving the DVD access to the file, which is necessary in order to ascertain exactly which files it concerns and what measures the administration should take. If the DVZ detects fraud, the public prosecutor and/or the employment auditor will always be informed about it. Several investigations are currently under way. It goes without saying that a fraudulent right of residence will be withdrawn. Recovery of benefits is not my competence, but of course it will also be the subject of consultation with the competent services once the investigation has been completed. The municipal authorities are constantly being sensitized to the important role they play in the fight against abuse in foreign procedures. Training is being provided, we are trying to make more control tools available to the municipal official, and we are working to improve the exchange of information with municipal authorities and social inspection services. The DVZ does indeed also carry out samples with municipal administrations. The main focus is on files containing indications of fraud. On the basis of the outcome of the judicial investigation, consideration will be given to how such practices can be avoided and detected in the future. Recently, a fraud coordinator has also been appointed to the DVZ to optimise the fight against abuse and to further identify the additional measures to be taken to increase the fight against fraud. As you know, tackling abuse is one of the main lines of policy. Migration can only be a positive story if we also vigorously tackle and dare to tackle any abuses. That is also what we will do. In this respect, the appointment of the fraud coordinator is an important step, not only for this specific dossier but also for those who abuse our procedures in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u15	I am pleased that the Foreign Affairs Office has set itself a bourgeois party and that there is also sensitisation and sampling. I also welcome the appointment of the fraud coordinator.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question is about one of my pet horses. At the committee meeting on 26 November, you said that the European Union is demonstrating the ambition to impose visa sanctions against states that refuse to take back their illegally staying nationals. On 7 October 2021, the Council of the European Union decided to impose sanctions against the opposing Gambia. Meanwhile, 2021 has already come to an end and the Council of the European Union has still not taken sanctions against other reluctant third countries, including Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. However, by taking matters into your own hands, you could send a clear signal to the world that you mean business. I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. Do you have any knowledge of possible discussions within the Council of the European Union to impose visa sanctions against other countries? If so, which countries are now on the shortlist? If not, what stands in the way of doing so? Are there visa benefits for certain countries that do cooperate well? Is there the root next to the stick? Finally, last year France itself announced visa sanctions against some North African countries. Are you prepared to do the same, pending the European sanctions which have been announced for a long time now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u17	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, since the revision of the Schengen Visa Code that has been in force since 2020, the European Commission is obliged to assess once a year the level of cooperation on readmission of third countries subject to the visa requirement. That's good, too. There is often talk of visa sanctions that can be taken. In addition, there is a link whereby the European Commission is obliged each year to assess each country. Then it'll be checked whether it works or not. In accordance with a procedure detailed in Article 25a of the Visa Code, the Council may then link positive or negative effects with the findings of the comparative report. Last year this process was completed for the first time from start to finish. This resulted in visa sanctions against Gambia, which are still in place. No visa fees were granted. In the meantime, we've entered a new year. A new cycle started at the beginning of 2022. The first phase has already begun with the Commission's report which will be discussed in the Council in the coming months. It is then for the Council, acting by a qualified majority, to determine visa sanctions or visa fees on the basis of cooperation on return. The imposition of visa sanctions, like the return policy itself, obviously has more effect when Member States do this together. France has done so effectively at some point. At that time, however, we were told by France that they have taken visa sanctions, but are in Schengen. That means that when people go to France via Belgium, they are nothing with those visa sanctions. They asked if not everyone together could take those sanctions. They could have proposed that at the European Council. In me, the last opponent will be found to put countries that are apparently refusing to cooperate in returning on that list. We have to do that. France has also seen the result of this only in a Schengen story. We have the advantages of Schengen and we do not question it. Economically, small Belgium has also become strong because of the freedom to move on on European territory. The benefits are known. The downsides are there somewhere. Today's migration policy does far too little at European level for the correct, controlled form of migration. In this respect, therefore, there is a need for a change of heart and for visa sanctions to be dared to be taken. France and Belgium are at least on the same page. Together, we must use as much pressure as possible, such as visa sanctions, for countries that, when diplomatically everything has been tried, continue to refuse to cooperate and do what is their international obligation. Then action can be taken and sanctions can be imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, of course I fully agree with what you say at the end of your discourse. Yet we notice that almost nothing still happens. Is Gambia the only thing this European Union is capable of? A full analysis is being made of all countries, and some of them are clearly refusing to do so and are countering our migration policy. Yet Gambia is the only country in which we apparently dare to use the stick. If that exercise were to be recreated now, it would really be scandalous if such a weak result were to be taken out of that exercise again. That would be truly regrettable. It will be discussed in the Council in the coming months. I will certainly have to come back to this. Hopefully the result will be a little more than Gambia. You yourself say that there is a whole list of countries that clearly refuse to cooperate in this area. France also thinks so. Hopefully you will knock together on the table and this time you will come out with a stronger result.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u19	Dear Secretary of State, now that the motorway parking along the E40 in Waremme is closed at night and at night, the federal police see the number of transit migrants in the highway parkings in Landen and Haasrode increase significantly. It is clear that the problem of transit migration has been simply moved for years, including by your predecessors, but has never been tackled on the ground. Soon, yet another meeting will be planned between the relevant ministers, the governors and the mayors involved. How do you intend to tackle this problem in the first place, so that it is not simply shifted again for the umpteenth time? Has the consultation with the concerned governors and mayors provided you with new insights? Did you promise policy actions on that consultation with the concerned governors and mayors, and if so which ones? Have you consulted with your colleague Minister for the Interior, Annelies Verlinden, and if so, what has been agreed there to ensure that the problem is not simply shifted for the countless time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u20	Mr. Secretary of State, I'd like to have an update on the situation in East Brabant. We have two major roads, the E40 and the E314, with a number of large highway parkings in Aarschot and Haasrode, a number of smaller parkings in Honsem and Kortenberg and a few hotspots for migration. Transit migration and ascension have been a problem for years. There have been interventions by the Flemish government. Money has been released by Minister Ben Weyts. There are fences placed, there is protection placed to prevent the climbing of illegals and calamities in parking spaces. Despite all these things, many problems are still reported by the highway police, truck drivers and passengers about all possible fraudulent situations with illegals who want to climb in. There is also a report of robbery, theft and burglary in cars. Mr Secretary of State, what is the state of play? What will you do? Will you consult with Minister Peeters on how to better protect our parkings? After all, the problems remain very pertinent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u21	The problem of transit migration, especially in highway parking, is well known. The solutions at European level are particularly complex, but we must also do what we can at Belgian level. I work together with the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers to act wherever possible. Highway parking must provide sufficient cameras and security. There must also be strict sanctions in the event of infringements. That is the approach that we need to take and, fortunately, this government has also chosen to invest extra in the security services, the asylum and migration services and the justice system. Today we read about the smuggler who dragged a number of Vietnamese into the depths. He was severely punished for that. These are the important issues that need to be addressed. Above all, we must tackle the big fish. The smugglers who drag people along on a route and take advantage of their misery sometimes get away with it. That needs to be addressed. I am glad that for the first time a very severe punishment was pronounced for that smuggler. On that path we must continue: there must be control and action. We will. I have discussed this with Minister Verlinden, responsible for Home Affairs, and with Minister Van Quickenborne, responsible for Justice. There is also consultation with Flanders and Wallonia and the local authorities. We also have the Reach Out team at Fedasil. Transmigrants from countries such as Afghanistan, Libya and Somalia cannot return because there is war in their country. Above all, we must make it clear to these people that there is no point in getting into a camion and risking their lives. We have to tell them to follow the rules. On the one hand, information is needed and, on the other hand, action is needed, and that is two things that go hand in hand. I will deal with this together with my colleagues. We will do what we can at our level, but above all I hope that we will do enough at European level to deal with the structural problem. These are the people who come to Europe without screening at the external border, after which they go from one European country to another and are often taken on a route towards England, with a stopover at a transit parking lot. I am absolutely in favour of a common approach. You know, by the way, that we will continue to work very hard, especially in my own province, to prevent such incidents from continuing as often as today, which unfortunately is far too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u22	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, unfortunately there is no concrete policy action to address the problem of transit migration in Flemish Brabant, on and along highway parkings. Worse still, we're facilitating it. In Brussels, with buildings and hotels already purchased, they are working to catch the transit migrants here, as a stopover, and then to guide them to the North Sea, where they can make a dangerous crossing to England. The people who come here, the transit migrants who do not apply for asylum and who do not want to follow the procedures in force, who want to stay here in illegality and want to travel through, they are illegal migrants. You say that you can do what you can do with camera checks, lockdowns and more stringent penalties.That's good, but what you really need to do I didn't hear in your list, especially tracking transit migrants and deporting them to their country of origin. These people do not want to apply for asylum, they do not want to follow the rules, they do not want to follow the laws, they are illegal here. The transmigrants are by no means all victims, many of them are also perpetrators. Especially when they engage in assault, destruction, ascension or burglary. Then they must be punished and deported to their country of origin instead of being taken in hotels and in buildings in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u23	Thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary of State. You say you are looking at the European Union, you are using the European Union as an eternal excuse. For a piece that is justified. However, if you argue that there is no rapid screening at the external borders, then I wonder what would solve a quick screening. If they are not locked up at the external borders, they continue to travel, and if they want to go to the United Kingdom, they can. If they are not sent back, they will remain in Europe either way. They may be locked up for up to nine months. So a quick screening doesn't solve anything. We have to go to another model, to the Australian model. Just don't let them in. Fast screening and quick return is the biggest fake news that you and your services have been spreading for two years now. That does not exist, it never existed and will never exist, no quick screening and no quick return. As you yourself have pointed out, for some countries, even the large migratory countries from which they enter are no longer able to return, because of the situation in those countries. So just don't let them in. Stop illegal migration and choose another model. This isn't going anywhere. As far as the measures are concerned, you wonder what else you can do. Among other things, I should like to mention the proposal for better protection, in consultation with Mrs Peeters. I don't know if you've had any discussions, but I hope so. You still have the Inter-Ministerial Conference, where you raised a point about unaccompanied minors. I think it's important to keep setting this up. I know that you are not in favour of locking up transmigrants themselves, because you have to release them after a few days. I would personally consider continuing to do so. In addition, our bill for criminalising climbing into a truck is ready here. I'm gonna recalibrate it, we're gonna redo it. Last time it was voted off. On the basis of the comments, I will still try to convince the majority of them to criminalise climbing into a lorry which is not currently punishable. Climbing into a port or airport area is a criminal offence. Climbing into a truck, on the other hand, isn't what I don't understand. Especially if the intention is to continue to travel illegally to the United Kingdom. Finally, you say that for the first time a smuggler of human beings has been severely punished, especially the smuggler of those Vietnamese who were killed at that time. It's not the first time a smuggler's been severely punished. It's happened a lot. But it's a flare. For every smuggler arrested, 30 are ready to take over his duties. This cannot be eradicated by condemning one in a thousand here and there. The refrigerators might be avoiding them now, not the smuggling itself. Forget it. Finally, regarding the reading of mobile phones, ministers Verlinden and Van Quickenborne extensively communicated on smuggling via the Channel to the United Kingdom. I thought that was a good initiative, but why isn't reading cell phones used by default in highway parking? If you wish to do so, I suggest you start a pilot project in the province of Flemish Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u24	Last week, Dr. Jan van de Beek, well-known for his interesting presentations in this committee, made the following statement in the Dutch media: "Whoever applies for asylum and gets it in the Netherlands, the treasury costs on average about one million euros." This ruling stems from the investigation of the Free State of Care where dr. From the Beek was part of it. In this document, he explains how he came to this amount: "An asylum worker who gets asylum in the Netherlands costs 550,000 euros according to our research alone. However, if an asylum seeker is admitted, this results in an average of 0.5 follow-on travellers and 0.3 follow-on migrants, or family migrants. These costs are also very high. If you add up all the costs, you'll get about a million." A similar study was carried out in 2003 by the Central Planning Bureau of the Netherlands (CPB), entitled Immigration and the Dutch Economy. Project leader and editor of this research was Hans Roodenburg. Roodenburg informs that Dr. Van de Beek are in line with what he found at the time with the CPB investigation. Do you have any reason to suspect that these Dutch conclusions would differ significantly from the figures in Belgium? What do you think of these conclusions? Will you also have such an investigation carried out in the near future specifically for asylum migration in order to be able to conduct a debate on the basis of facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u25	Mr Van Langenhove, I have noticed that this study is particularly popular in certain circles. I have already received several parliamentary questions about it, so I am certainly aware of the study itself and the conclusions drawn. First of all, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the mission for the study of the Borderless Care State was given by the Renaissance Institute, the Scientific Bureau of the Forum for Democracy. It is their right to conduct studies, but political parties naturally always rely on their ideology. I think we both know the ideology of Forum for Democracy. By the way, I have heard that the University of Amsterdam has asked for its name and logo to be removed from the study because it has nothing to do with the report. Again, it does not seem unimportant to me to outline this context. Although there are similarities between the different Member States of the European Union, each Member State has its own specific characteristics. Therefore, extrapolating the situation of a Member State to another Member State does not apply. When formulating my policy, I am always open to external input, which seems logical to me, but that does not mean that I will take over any idea that exists anywhere in the world if it is not in line with the facts or simply with good governance. I would like to reiterate that migration is not only an economic aspect, but also a financial and fiscal aspect. Some jobs, performed by incoming migrants, are otherwise not filled out because people do not want to do such a job. The work as a babysitter or other job performed by someone with a migration background also takes care of the other economically, as it gives them more space to better organise life or to better fill in the relationship between work and private life. That too is an element to take into account in the real discussion about cost. It is too easy to stick to the fact that some pay little tax, while people with much higher wages contribute much more. One's economic contribution includes more than what he does, especially in relation to others. We have already had discussions in this committee on studies carried out by the National Bank of Belgium on the subject of points, commas and comments, which I could also understand. However, if only age is taken into account and if it happens to be lower in the selected migrant population than in any other group, then the conclusion may also be that the growth rate for that migrant population is much higher. You must not convince me of the usefulness of a discussion in which we must put the facts aside, but they must be correct. Then I accept the elements and the critical reservations, as they were in the study of the National Bank. However, we still speak of a different order of magnitude when it comes to the elements of criticism in the National Bank study compared to the study you quote from the Forum for Democracy. Mr Van Langenhove, of course there is no need to be surprised that we disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, it was of course not a study of Forum for Democracy, it was a study by Dr Jan van de Beek, among others. This study is supported by Hans Roodenburg's research, which was almost 20 years ago. Unlike you, I judge that study on the basis of the content and not on the basis of the person who would have requested it or executed it. I am a Flemish nationalist, everyone knows that by now, but it is not because the National Bank of Belgium is carrying out an investigation that I assume in advance that it cannot be correct. It is not because an investigation was requested by you, a political opponent in some areas, or was carried out by the National Bank of Belgium, that I say in advance that I will not take it into account. I look at that study on content, and there was a lot more to be added to critical remarks than points and commas. The conclusion was simply wrong. The press release was lying. What came out of it was actually to be regarded as fake news, to say it with your words. I hope that you will look at this study thoroughly and that you will not only look at the name on it or the comments about it in the Dutch media. Just so we're clear, I didn't subtract this at all, as you say. However, I can see that there are many similarities between Flanders and the Netherlands. We must ask ourselves whether the result would be so significantly different for Belgium. I honestly don't think so. I hope that you will look at the conclusions and the study in detail again and see whether it might be interesting to do something similar in Belgium, something that goes wider and deeper than the National Bank study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, you were right: you disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u28	The Brussels Region has been providing temporary shelter for transit migrants for months. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Rudi Vervoort announced that the Brussels government will purchase a building complex in Haren to make it a reception and referral centre for transmigrants. You thought that was a particularly ill-thought-out decision and in a few tweets you were angry at the Brussels government. Feel free to take a life-threatening and illegal passage to the United Kingdom. You may even rest in Brussels," you said. Or: Move the Calais to our capital, understand who can understand," I quote you again. We are the last ones to condemn these Twitter messages, because the construction of a reception centre will indeed only help to normalise transmigration, which is in the hands of organised crime. However, we do not believe that your adverse reaction should be limited to those tweets. The fact that Brussels mayor Close is a PS signature makes Brussels' performance all the more remarkable. That division was also found in the crisis around the hunger strikers. With your response, do you actually interpret the position of the entire federal government, or is it a personal position? While you have already spoken out against hospitality in hotels, Brussels did work on it by way of a detour and the Region actually went against your policy. Today that happens again with the purchase of a real building complex. What will you and the government do to stop the actual circumvention and erosion of federal asylum policy by the Brussels Region, which had already been eroded? It is not the first time that Brussels has opted for a self-righteous approach and is even asking for financial compensation from the federal government. Do you intend to answer that question? We hope not. For some time now, the federal government has been sending out so-called outreach workers, primarily in Brussels. They must inform migrants about their opportunities in our country. There are also return offices in Brussels, where migrants can volunteer to address questions about their status and their opportunities. What have been the concrete results of this approach so far? How many transit migrants have the outreach workers reached in the past year? How many transit migrants eventually applied for asylum in Belgium? How many transit migrants chose a guided return to their country of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, you tweeted about the purchase of a building to house transmigrants that it would be the ideal hub and that the only one who would be happy about this was the mayor of Calais. So you clearly didn't agree with the decision to buy that building. I suggested that a conflict of interest be called upon to challenge the purchase, which is nevertheless a formal decision of the Brussels Government, at the highest level in order to prevent it. You expressed your protest through the social media, but did you do so through other forums or in other ways? Did you raise the issue at a meeting of the Consultative Committee or have it placed on the agenda of the nuclear cabinet or the Federal Government's Council of Ministers? All parties in your government are also part of the Brussels government, only CD&V is not. Well, I guess you can raise that case. I'd like to have a little more clarity about this. The fact that you are opposed to this is one thing. What do you do with your opposition and what does it do for the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u30	All the governments of our country must safeguard the fundamental rights of everyone on Belgian territory, including transit migrants. At the same time, we must ensure that Belgium does not become a springboard for migrants wishing to move on to the United Kingdom in an illegal way; we must not normalise transit migration. Therefore, I am not in favour of centres providing unconditional reception or focusing solely on the target group of transit migrants. In my view, this reception will be made more dependent on individual guidance courses, working on a sustainable future project. Going to England isn't a piste. A transit agent can apply for asylum in Belgium. He can choose to return to the country of origin. There are procedures for this. Someone can also be taken in if he applies for asylum. That's why I strongly support the Reach Out team with Fedasil, which is on the ground to inform transit migrants. Those teams are also in contact with organisers of humanitarian initiatives for on-the-spot cooperation. In 2021, they had 2,044 contact points and 471 individual counselling arrangements. 13.5 % resulted in an asylum application, 3 % in voluntary return and 14.5 % in reintegration into the Fedasil shelter network. 8 % of this is still pending. Of the remaining 61 % we can say that transit cereals were adequately informed about their possibilities. We must also use all other means at our disposal, either in the information, awareness or repressive fields, to tackle transit migration. They may choose to apply for asylum in Belgium or return at a later date. Providing permanent care without engaging in a normal way is not justified. I am also in constant consultation with colleagues from Brussels. I can certainly understand the fact that they want to override homeless people. That's something else. Local authorities all have powers to take care of homeless people. However, it is important that there should be cooperation in the field of transit migration in terms of orientation. People should not simply be taken in, especially in a centre intended for the reception of transmigrants. I therefore do not intend to intervene financially in the mere reception of transit migration. We can engage in dialogue on cooperation on social guidance of persons and guidance to existing procedures. I'm sure I'm open to that. However, the policy of homeless people with a specific approach to transit migration, which some people are pursuing, is deeply regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u31	My group regrets that too, and you will not be surprised. From the opposition, we often cannot do much more than regret and make it clear that, as you say, we are not in favour of such a policy. There's more you can do. You have a very important executive mandate in your hands. The federal government can put pressure on them and appeal to their partners or political party colleagues in the Brussels government to do something about this. I think you're doing far too little. You are watching with patience how your policy is completely sabotaged, how we become an attraction pool for transit migrants, how Brussels indeed creates a sort of stopover, a place of rest for transit migrants from all over Belgium as a springboard to travel to the United Kingdom. What you could do to make a real difference is to send migrants who do not want to follow the rules and who do not want to apply for asylum, find and guide them to their country of origin. That's what you can and must do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, you say that you are in permanent consultation with the Brussels Government, but that is all. You're not invoking a conflict of interest. It's a lot of words, but little action. Mr Secretary of State, put your money where your mouth is. If you say it so loudly on Twitter, do something about it. Fight that decision, then. Invite a conflict of interest or agitate the issue at an inter-ministerial conference or at a meeting of the Consultation Committee. Or ask for an interview. Very little is happening. The situation in Brussels is particularly difficult. In Brussels Noord some companies pick up their employees with private vans, to drop them 500 metres further, because their employees simply do not dare to go on foot anymore. In Brussels-Zuid, a petition was launched by......................................................................................................................................................... Everyone's watching with patience, including you. It is a disgrace how our beautiful capital is completely in decline by tackling transit migration, illegal migration, homelessness, crime and laxity. I always predicted it with Mr Jambon during the asylum crisis. At that time, all we had was opposition from Mr Mayeur and the DéFI mayor of Schaerbeek. We have already stated that if we cannot work with our police as we wish, possibly supported by the federal police and the railway police, it would become a place of laissez-faire, laissez-passer, robbing people daily. That's what's happening now. What other girl dares take a train in Brussels-North at 11:00 in the evening? One can count them on one hand. It just keeps going on and on. Now one will provide a shelter, all from a kind of colored goodness, which de facto has the opposite as a result. I do not see any prospect of a right-wing government in Brussels, which will still be governed by the left over the next twenty years. Maybe the MR will be the biggest party in Brussels, but it will have to do some serious work because the PTB will also score high. I am really curious about the situation in Brussels in 20 years' time. That's what's keeping me awake. You were born there, not me, but I love that town just like you. I think it's a fantastic city, but I think it's being run horribly badly. This leads to a huge number of tragedies in the field of security and crime. It's only gonna get worse and worse. I don't see any positive signs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u33	Dear Secretary of State, it has been known for longer than today that the so-called Channel Route is in the elevator. The many successful crossings have had a snowball effect, which means that more and more smugglers and migrants are taking their chances. The hotels and buildings that are made available do not do any good either. In 2021 alone, a record number of 28,395 migrants crossed the Channel between France and the United Kingdom. That would be a triple compared to 2020. This can be explained, among other things, by the fact that smugglers use larger boats. On these boats there would be an average of 28 migrants, but it is certain that some boats can now accommodate up to 50 people. On November 11, 2021, even 1,185 transit migrants reached the British mainland. The whole month of November was good for 6.869 crossing. Not every transit agent made it across in November. As you know, a tragic accident occurred on 24 November in which 27 migrants drowned trying to cross the Channel from France. In the light of current developments, it is not impossible for the problem to move further from northern France to our own coasts. The media are increasingly reporting empty and full of floating boats being fished out of our territorial waters. What evolution have you noticed since your appointment as Secretary of State with regard to illegal transmigration from the Belgian coast across the Channel? What action are you and your government taking to combat illegal transmigration from the Belgian coast to the United Kingdom? Do you have figures or estimates on how often the competent authorities have had to intervene in Belgian territorial waters or have had to provide assistance to France in this area? If so, can you tell us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u34	Mr Van Langenhove, in transit migration to the United Kingdom from France, and to a limited extent from Belgium, the new trend is certainly the use of small boats. The DVZ notes a sharp decrease in the number of police reports for transit migrants, but the figures give only a limited picture of reality. Multiple explanations are therefore conceivable, they do not necessarily reflect the presence of transit migrants. The focus of the administrative reports is still in West Flanders, where the SPN Coast has been sending the highest number to the DVZ since 2018. For a full picture, I refer to the police services DAO and the competent Minister for the Interior. Several actions are being taken on transit migration. These are police actions, enhanced cooperation with France, Frontex's support for operations and consultations with the European Commission and Frontex itself. I refer, for example, to the aircraft used by Frontex to control not only the southern and eastern borders of Europe, but also our borders. After all, we all invest in Frontex, so it makes sense for them to check here too. Together with Minister Van Quickenborne, the focus is placed on the judicial part, the detection and dismantling of networks of smugglers. It is clear that a multi-faceted approach is needed with the use of many services. Together with my colleagues, I will continue to contribute to the fight against human trafficking and the fight against transit migration. I also noticed in my talks in Calais that the number of transit migrants trying to get to England via trucks has fallen sharply. On the other hand, the number of small boats has increased dramatically. They've become more professional. The engine is bought in Germany, the vests are bought in the Netherlands, in Belgium they buy something else. The organisation of the route from Calais to England with small boats has thus become more professional in recent years. We must do everything possible at Belgian level, but we must also exchange much more information with Germany, the Netherlands and France in order to better track down these smugglers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, there is a great deal of limp in the punishment of the smugglers. I have asked questions about this in the past. The arrest rate and certainly the degree of prosecution are still far too low. So much can still happen. I will also ask questions about this later in the Committee on Justice. You rightly refer to Minister Verlinden, I also ask her regularly about this issue, but you can also do a lot. One can prevent, above all, from curing by tackling this problem at the source, by greatly limiting the influx into this country and preferably by increasing the outflow, especially of transit migrants who do not want to follow the rules and who do not want to apply for asylum. They may not leave the Flemish coast, but they often come from Flanders and Belgium. The French Minister for the Interior even said that about half of the transit migrants crossing the border came from Belgium. So there's still a lot of work to be done, including in your department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, in Steenokkerzeel there will be a new closed center, bringing the counter in the municipality to four. Mayor Kurt Ryon announced through the media that he was not questioned or informed in advance. He had to hear it through the press, as unfortunately happens often. I quote him: "I think the Minister should first have the courtesy to come and talk to the host. There's nothing against that decision. All the worries and resources fall on our necks and we cannot bear that as a municipality." Kurt Ryon is asking for more resources for the police forces and a meeting with the Secretary of State. Our group, of course, supports the opening of a new closed return centre, but does ask questions about the way in which this is done. After all, it is crucial to ensure that the opening of additional closed return centres is as smooth as possible, which will be necessary. Has the conversation that mayor Kurt Ryon asked for already taken place? If so, what were the conclusions? Is it true that the mayor was not formally informed about the arrival of this new center and that the media were first informed? If so, do you think this is a correct method? When will this new closed return centre be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u37	You said the counter's on four. Of course, there are no four closed centers in Steenokkerzeel. I have already explained the difference between asylum centres and closed centres, because the mayor spoke of 'a fourth asylum centre on his territory'. So that's not true. There is indeed a big difference between a closed centre in the context of holding persons who have to return to their country of origin and an asylum centre where people are waiting for the outcome of their procedure. I don't think I need to explain the difference here, but the distinction has to be made to make sure we're discussing the right issue. On 23 November 2021, there was indeed a meeting with the Mayor of Steenokkerzeel and with the Chief Constable of the police zone KASTZE. That conversation went very well. The mayor understands that the government wants to use the areas next to the airport, where the closed centre 127bis and the Caricole transit centre are currently located, to further optimise the disposal policy. The continued use and optimization of this area is an interesting slope that we must continue on. This is also part of a humane return policy, because forced return can also be humane if people are detained in the vicinity of the airport for a short period of time and properly supervised. Of course, the mayor is afraid of the additional challenges that this poses for him and his police force. I have every sympathy for Mayor Ryon's sighs, and I've let him know that. There are not many municipalities in our country that house two closed centres and also a centre for unaccompanied minors. One of these centres is also centre 127bis, which has a great symbolic value and which is argued several times a year against return policy. We must also remember that Steenokkerzeel houses a large part of an important airport, a military airport and the seveso company. That's not a bad thing for a small town. The local government and the police force must therefore be up to that challenge. During the interview I made it clear that I have enormous respect for the approach of the local authorities in Steenokkerzeel and that I will also do everything I can to tackle together the possible operational and logistical security challenges that might arise, so that we can ensure that the forced return policy is further strengthened and that the questions and concerns that live with local authorities are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, the latter is indeed very important. I'm glad the meeting with the mayor and the chief of police took place. On a subsequent occasion, such a conversation may take place in advance, possibly with someone from your department, so that misunderstandings can be overcome. There is indeed a big difference between an open asylum centre and a closed return centre. Of the former, we wish to see a thorough phasing-out in Belgium and of the latter there cannot be enough. In order to make this possible, it is, of course, very important that there should always be clear communication and that the necessary means should be provided to ensure that new closed centres are put into operation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u39	Mr. Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, there is always a gap between when we put our questions and when you can answer them. In doing so, the question before us is a bit old. I had addressed it to Mrs Wilmès in advance because I wanted to know what action was possible in the field of international policy. But this question was finally transferred to you. In any event, it has been known for months that Denmark's migration policy is gradually moving away from compliance with international conventions. Let me give you some examples of measures in place to deter, or even prevent, asylum seekers from coming to or staying in the country. The country now plans to issue a provisional protection status that does not guarantee any security. There is also a correlation between the provision of social assistance and the requirement to work 37 hours a week. A project on an island of detention has recently been voted for migrants. There is also the return of Syrian refugees and an agreement to return migrants to Kosovo. Amnesty International Denmark and Human Rights Watch are deeply concerned about these practices, and other organizations point out that they are illegal under international law. Mr Secretary of State, have the Danish migration policy and the dangerous measures proposed by his government been discussed at meetings at European level? Last June, the European Commission announced its intention to analyse the texts providing for the return of asylum seekers from the European Union and to consider the next steps. What about today? With regard to the specific question of the return of Syrian nationals, does Belgium also intend to return Syrian nationals whose residence permits have been withdrawn, as is the case in Denmark, and who are covered by the Dublin Regulation? Are there any dialogues between Belgium and Denmark to influence the policy relating in particular to the Syrian nationals of the Danish Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u40	Mr President, my question on 'The Danish coalition of the willing' was first merged with question No. Mr Van Langenhove's 55024142C on 'The coalition of the willing for the distribution of incoming asylum seekers'. However, my question is about this and not at all about the spread of asylum seekers. My question concerns what Mr Moutquin considers morally reprehensible and what I think morally advisable. This shows the black-and-white theorem of our two views on migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u41	You know, Mr Francken, that I do not put the questions together myself. That depends on the cabinet and the question. Do you object to the question being asked now, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u42	Mr President, I must first see if I can put the puzzle, because the answer to Mr Van Langenhove's question is also contained in the answer to this question. We'll try.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, my question is directly linked to the interview that Mr Tesfaye, the Danish Minister of Migration, gave to De Tijd last weekend, in which he called on all EU Member States to make a coalition of the willing in the context of the story that Denmark is writing to deny people who illegally enter European territory asylum, but to allow that procedure to take place in a third country outside the European Union. He is negotiating on this, but they have not yet landed. He is, however, optimistic about this. Will Belgium join that coalition of the willing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u44	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, when applying for the Dublin Regulation, the individual situation of the applicant is always taken into account and the situation in the European country. If Denmark took the decision to return a Syrian person, it would have to ensure compliance with articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the principle of non-refoulement. Denmark has not yet made a forced return to Syria. In my view, it is rather a symbolic policy: it is good to be able to say that they can be turned back to Syria, but in concrete terms it does not happen out of respect for those articles. In 2021, no transfers of Syrian nationals were made from Belgium to Denmark under the Dublin Regulation. In recent years, there have been only a few cases. This covers all types of cases covered by the Dublin Regulation. At present, there is no bilateral dialogue between Belgium and Denmark on this subject. In the context of the current discussions within the European Union on the migration situation, the Pact on Migration and the necessary European reforms on asylum, one of the main Belgian principles, actively defended by our country, remains the maximum respect by all Member States for all international obligations, including, but not limited to, existing European regulations. It should be noted that Denmark, in view of its particular position with regard to the EU treaties with the opt-out, does not participate in and is therefore not bound by current and future European asylum legislation. Mr Francken, you are talking about a coalition of the willing, which the Danes would like to propose. I have not yet received or seen such a proposal. So I'm going to have to guess about the details for a while. However, I will meet my European colleagues soon. I hope to hear more about this at that time. As regards the asylum model and the outsourcing to a third country, I have to repeat what I have just given about the return policy to Syria and the communication of the Danes. The result is zero for the time being. With regard to outsourcing and externalising responsibility for refugees, I can tell you that the model proposed so far is virtually unfeasible at the moment. The Danish model does not yet exist, nor does it exist in Denmark. Moreover, the opt-out also does not bind Denmark to a number of asylum rules that apply in the rest of Europe. We've had the discussion about outsourcing a few times. We all know how difficult the discussions on return policy are. It is therefore necessary to find countries that want to take on the task and can do so with respect for international and European rules. I note that Denmark is working on this within its opt-out and has not yet found any countries. We have differences of opinion as to whether this is the right model. I also note, however, that you often talk about the practical implementation of the difficulties at European level in achieving screening at the external borders. Moreover, this screening is not just a screening exercise. People are being detained pending a procedure to know whether or not to enter Europe. Whether or not we can, at least we have to fight for it. After all, the current asylum and migration model is not desirable. What the Danes are communicating for the time being, however, does not seem to have been realized in the facts for the time being, not even with their opt-out, which the other European countries do not have.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, I am very pleased to learn that there has been no dismissal of Syrian nationals in Denmark. There is a precedent with the case of Eritrean nationals in Switzerland. The European Court of Human Rights had delivered an opinion on the subject. You say there is no dialogue. I'm sorry. There have already been cases with Poland and Hungary concerning violations of certain treaties. I was not aware of the information on the Treaty between Denmark and the European Union. To be honest, I'll find out. In reply to Mr. Francken, it is not especially Simon Moutquin who gives his opinion, but it is the opinion of international organizations such as Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch. I am not a lawyer and will never sit on the Constitutional Court. I am based on opinions such as that of the Commission, which is also concerned about these different practices. Mr Secretary of State, you spoke of a symbolic policy. In this committee, we are trying not to make a symbolic migration policy, but an effective and humane migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, you don't think there are any results yet, but words matter. Communication also matters, in addition to the actions. Are there any results? There are 25,000 asylum applications in Belgium, 1,500 in Denmark. Tell me there are no results! Should you do so without even sending anyone back, assuming that there would be a proportion of 3,000 asylum applications here, you would be carried at hand! At least by the majority of the Flemings, let me put it this way, because people here in this country must always pay attention to what they say. No results? The results are fantastic! It is the only left-wing government in Europe that I say is doing well in the area of migration. They're absolutely right. You're talking about the Syrians. No one has been forced back, but 80 have already left and 300 have withdrawn the right of residence. How many are that with us? None. I asked the CGVS. There is no time for it and it is not a priority, even if it is possible and already happening for certain regions in Syria. It has passed the touchstone in Denmark. We are doing nothing in this area, just more and more reception, an ever-increasing asylum budget of more than half a billion euros and so on. That is the courage of your conviction. The Left in Scandinavia has understood it and is also introducing it. With us we are still in a process where even the center goes all the way in a story that leads nowhere. You're referring to Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. You may, of course, do so, but I remain convinced that the handling of asylum applications in a safe third country is perfectly in accordance with the Geneva Convention. That is legitimate, correct and possible. We fundamentally disagree on that. But I understand Frontex is coming here soon. I look forward to that hearing with Mr Leggeri. Then we can ask him about the settlement of asylum applications on the territory of a safe third country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u47	Mr President, I want to respond to the speech, but unfortunately it is not a debate, so I will stop there. I turn my question No 55023843 on Belarus into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u48	Mr President, Secretary of State, on December 13, a young dentistry student was denied her right of entry after a check-up at Charleroi airport. She then has a Schengen visa in order of residence. After several hours of interrogation, the airport police, as required by the procedure, transmit their case to the Aliens Office, which decides on their detention in a closed centre. Given the young woman's testimony, many questions about how the interrogation took place merit answers. I've already put Mrs. Verlinden in a series. However, the student's misadventure did not stop there, since, after her interrogation, she was sent to the Caricole Centre for 11 days, before being expelled at her own expense to Romania, the country where she was studying dentistry. The young woman explained that she had spent six days in solitary confinement and had been able to leave for fifteen minutes during this period. On the other hand, she claims to have requested a medicine for her heart, because she suffers from tachycardia. After a few days, the closed centre gave her a drug that did not match what she had requested, causing an allergic reaction. An appeal was lodged with the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers, a hearing which she was unable to attend due to lack of transport available. This terrible story does not end there, since the revocation of his visa has been decided, which will have an impact on his ability to continue his studies and to do internships in countries other than Romania. Mr Secretary of State, is the six-day confinement in solitary confinement a normal and common practice in a closed centre? Are exit permits limited to 15 minutes in six days? What about medical follow-up? Don't closed centres have an obligation to provide the necessary medicines to inmates? Why has the student been placed in the Caricole Centre when closed centres for women exist? What about the repeal of the Schengen visa due to questioning, the conditions of which are questionable? Can this decision be reviewed? Is an appeal possible? Thank you in advance for your answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, first of all let me say that I have become aware of this ignoble caricature and the infamous montage that has been made of you, testifying to the violence that you and your family are victims of for political initiatives that never deserve such shameful intimidation, a fortiori when they refer to innumerable comparisons with past extreme right words and acts that we never want to see again. So know that I fully support you in your actions at these difficult times for you and also your dad - I understand that. As far as my question is concerned, my colleague has already set out the context for it. What concerns me again is the behaviour of the airport police, which seems to have a very wide margin of manoeuvre and extensive powers of interpretation. A poor lady who said she had the means to stay for a few days in Belgium was deprived of her liberty for eleven days, six of whom were isolated - that's not nothing! Nor could it be heard at the hearing on 21 December. Mr Secretary of State, on what basis did the airport police signify to him the ban on stay and the refoulement? What discretion is it given to airport police officers? This is not the first time that their actions have asked us questions. On several occasions, we have asked you about this. Why was Ms. Ziti unable to attend her hearing? Why did she find herself in solitary confinement for six days, in addition to incomprehensible deprivation of liberty? That's terrible! On what basis did the Office for Foreigners abrogate a tourist visa issued by the French authorities? What are the consequences of the revocation of a visa in terms of the rights to stay in Belgium or France? Has a report been drawn up at the airport, setting out the proceedings of the hearing and the reasons for the deprivation of liberty and for the refoulement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, in December 2021 a student was imprisoned after questioning and then expelled from the country. The story appeared on various media channels. On arrival in Belgium, Ouiam was questioned. She had a Schengen visa and a travel visa for a longer stay in France. So there was no problem in itself until she was asked what money she would pay for her stay. She only had 10 euros in her pocket, but stated she could prove her solvency with a simple visit to the ATM. Her uncle, who lives in Brussels, could also be her guarantor. Its reasoning was apparently not accepted. She was held for 8 hours and food and drink were refused. The only thing that was finally allowed to her was a phone call to her uncle, but only if the conversation went in French so the agents could understand them. After the interrogation, she was transferred to Steenokkerzeel. When I hear that, I wonder where the proportionality has gone in this case. According to what we know, there was only a suspicion that she did not have the financial means to support herself during the journey, as that was not further investigated. Our information also shows that she wanted to cooperate willingly. On the other hand, there is an 8-hour interview, an 11-day detention period, of which 6 are isolated and its expulsion. On top of that, her Schengen visa is withdrawn and her internship as a dentist is being compromised by Ouiam, who is a student, all because of a suspicion. Mr Secretary of State, such serious facts require a thorough investigation. It is far from the first visa issue that raises questions in civil society. I refer to the expulsion of the students Junior Masudi and Yves Kouakou, as well as the academic Oumar Mboup and a Thai researcher who was here with the approval of the FANC. Can you confirm the facts as reported in the press? After the umpteenth visa affair, will you finally launch an investigation? Do you think it is in line with the principle of proportionality that such consequences are linked to the suspicion of an administrative problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mr Rigot for his words of support, which touched me. I wanted to say so much it's true that it's not always obvious. I will first briefly present the facts, before answering the more specific questions. She was denied access to the territory on 13 December 2021 because she did not meet the entry requirements, in accordance with article 3 of the Act of 15 December 1980. An action for suspension and annulment in extreme urgency was brought before the Foreign Litigation Council. It was rejected by a judgment of 21 December 2021. She was removed on 24 December 2021. In response to questions concerning the decision to refoulement and the revocation of the visa: there is no problem of proportionality. As has been pointed out many times, possession of a visa does not automatically confer the right to enter the territory. Entry conditions are again checked at the time of border control, depending on different elements. The Aliens Office may consider that they are not completed. If a person does not meet the entry requirements, Belgium must take measures to comply with its international obligations. In so far as the person concerned has not been prohibited from entering, the decision to refoulement and the revocation of his visa will not affect any future visa or stay in Belgium or France. An administrative report was prepared by the border control authorities on the conduct of the hearing. The decision to refoulement was taken by the Aliens Office and not by the border control authorities. The grounds for the decision of refoulement have been notified to the person and an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Foreign Litigation Council. As mentioned, the applicant's lawyer filed an appeal on 17 December 2021. The application was rejected by the Foreign Litigation Council on 21 December 2021. No attendance at the hearing before the Foreign Litigation Board is required. The person retained may be represented by his or her lawyer. In response to questions about the conditions of detention, the information you received about the six-day confinement in solitary confinement and the 15-minute exit authorizations in six days is incorrect, totally incorrect. She was not placed in solitary confinement. Since the health crisis of the covid-19, all new entrants to closed centres have been quarantined pending the results of the tests. The quarantine rooms at the Caricole have a bathroom with shower and toilet, a TV and wifi. Residents also have their smartphone and can therefore make and receive calls permanently. The doors are open for better management of entrances and exits. Residents must call to ask if they can go out in the garden, in order to avoid meeting other residents. They can go out as much as they like between 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Medical monitoring of residents of closed centres is guaranteed. Each centre has a medical service that monitors the care, including the administration of the necessary medicines. Residents have the opportunity to go to medical consultations on a daily basis. The reason why the person concerned was placed in the Caricole Centre while there is a closed women's centre in Belgium is that the Caricole Transit Centre mainly accommodates all persons arrested at the border who do not meet the conditions for access to the territory and for whom a decision of refoulement has been taken. We were talking earlier about the center of Steenokkerzeel. In fact, it is in this same philosophy to keep in detention persons who have been the subject of a decision of refoulement. Exceptionally, they can be transferred to another centre depending on the availability of places. In response to questions about the numbers, Mr De Smet, as I have already mentioned on several occasions, we do not have figures for students arrested at the border. Those were the answers to all the questions. I understand that questions are being asked, but I do not appreciate the insinuations. The committee members are free to ask questions. It is also their job, and rightly so. Those who say that people would have been held in isolation for six days, which cannot and should not be, should wait for the answer to the question. Then it becomes clear that there is no isolation cell at all, but that people are being quarantined, and fortunately so. We do not want hotbeds to emerge in either asylum centres or closed centres. Measures are being taken against this. I have said a thousand times that I would rather not talk about individual cases, but I understand that a question was asked on the issue, which I have been delighted to answer. In any case, I urge you to have the right discussion in the right tone. After all, the employees of the services concerned do their work with heart and soul. I have no problem with Parliament asking critical questions to check that everything is going properly, but it cannot be assumed that our staff are acting with bad intentions or pursuing bad policies. Once again, this is confirmed by the information I have provided here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I have taken note of the points which my colleague Mr Rigot has raised, and I fully agree with his indignation. The simple comparison – which unfortunately is current in society, whether for covid measures or other things – between the Nazi regime and you as Secretary of State or your predecessors is simply ignoble. Beyond an ugly attack on you and your family, it is also an attack on the fight against anti-Semitism. This struggle must focus on much more serious elements, no matter what disagreement we may sometimes have, whether it was with Mr Franken – who had also been compared, I know, by young environmentalists – or with you. In your answer, on the other hand, you say that people do it with the heart and soul. I've had Ouiam several times on the phone and I can tell you that his heart and soul, having spent eleven days in a closed center, are pretty scratched, in the middle of an exam session, in the middle of a blockade. She is a brilliant young woman, even if being brilliant or not does not determine our policy. She said she felt that her dreams had been broken. I think it's important to put ourselves in the place of those students who are in the closed centre. There are psychological repercussions on their studies or on them. She didn't meet the entry requirements. That's what the agents said during his interrogation. But there is still a question about what she would have actually said. She said that she wanted to stay 22 days in Belgium. She explains, however, that she never said that. This brings me back to another structural question that I have. How do we control, without implying anything, the airport police? I asked Mrs Verlinden the question and personally I am in favour of a border police hearing to see how their work works, to ask them questions and to have answers. I'm really wondering because this is the tenth time the young woman's been on this trip. This was the tenth time that Ouiam made this trip under the same financial, visa conditions, relating to the entry into Belgium and to the passing in France to see his family in Lille. What made the tenth time this led to an 11-day lock-up? Didn't the other nine officers do their job well? Or is it that agent who has a way of working – I'm not going to call it arbitrary – but, let's say, different? Hence the importance of the hearing that I believe should take place concerning this airport policy. The question of the correctness or incorrectness of Ouiam's information raises the question of the possibility of complaint for persons in closed centres. I know you're paying attention to that. Is the possibility of complaints for persons in closed centres systematically stipulated? I'm not sure. In any case, according to this young woman, she was never told that there was a possibility of filing a complaint within the management of the closed centre. This structural issue must be of concern to us. There will be legal steps, and it is not up to us to say anything about this. Committee P is mentioned etc. We really need to be able to ask ourselves structural questions. We must be able to hear people in our Parliament. There have been other cases of students for whom these actions have had a psychological impact on their later work. It is regrettable, however, that young people are being locked up in closed centres for ten days. Although most will be released afterwards, they will still suffer the psychological repercussions of this confinement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u53	A lot of things appear here. First of all, I would like to recall what my colleague Simon Moutquin referred to, namely the violence of the measure against the person. The person has a version, said white, another person understands black and that other person clearly has the power – which can be termed arbitrary or in any case self-governing – to consider that the person in question is in an illegal situation and to request his deprivation of liberty. We're not talking about anything, we're talking about deprivation of liberty. Indeed, this is not the first time. The behaviour of the airport police, as I told you earlier, is a question. This demonstrates, a minimum, the need to set a framework, improve training and, why not, also consider that decisions would not be taken by a person but by a college of people. There is no doubt that those who will enter our territory must have full knowledge of the conditions of entry, the extent to which they will be welcomed into our territory, and the manner in which they will be. This really needs to be clarified as soon as possible. The following question also arises: the person concerned was not, as you say, necessarily obliged, or in any case not invited, to attend the hearing. It was not in this case. I think it's important. Every person, every person who is a litigant must be able to be heard and must be able to defend his or her case, assisted of course – and that is so much better – by a lawyer, but in any case they all deserve to be heard and certainly when it comes to a situation where the stakes are to regain his or her freedom and rights. Finally, you are referring to the question of six days of isolation; I thank you for clarifying this information. It is therefore not a question of isolation, and I welcome it. I understand the co-empt measures that are being taken with regard to quarantine, but care must be taken, in this context, to move faster in the PCR tests and in the verification that will be carried out. I'm still surprised that it takes six days when today we get its results often in the day or even in the 36 hours. We must really insist that there should be an acceleration of the PCR control in the interests of everyone and certainly in the interests of those people who, despite everything, feel that they are actually suffering a complementary penalty. Thank you; I will be very attentive, of course, to the follow-up to this dossier and I can only join my colleague Simon Moutquin on the need to see with your colleague Mrs Verlinden what needs to be done to advance an understanding of the operation of the airport police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u54	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, which is certainly very comprehensive but very administrative and very unpolitical. I think we would have preferred a more political answer because, the question remains: what problem do the airport police and this coalition have with the students? There is still an accumulation of cases which is worrying, even with students who do not come to study in Belgium – as is the case with the person concerned since she studied elsewhere and came here for a private holiday. I think we are witnessing a phenomenon of accumulation, of multiplication of cases that should challenge you. There is no dispute that the airport police have some flexibility and that the visa is not enough. No one disputes that there are sometimes cases of fraud. But in this case we see an accumulation of cases of people who seem to be in very good faith. My colleague Simon Moutquin brought the club's argument: how can we explain that nine trips were not a problem and that the tenth trip, carried out under the same conditions, was made under the same conditions? I know that you are attentive to the procedures and take care to prevent arbitrariness from becoming the rule, but here, sincerely, I ask you to consider whether there is any real problem in the way the airport police seem to deal with student cases. In any case, we will be attentive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u55	You may not be surprised, but you have not convinced me, Mr Secretary of State. Since Junior we have been confronted with a dozen similar dramas. It is yet another case where one reacts extremely disproportionately and punishes solely on the basis of suspicions. In fact, I think we can speak of a certain inhumanity of the Foreign Office, the administrative courts and even of the Vivaldi government. That is all contrary to democratic rights, Mr Secretary of State. Last time, you accused me of disrespecting the rule of law. It is actually embarrassing to hear that when it comes to cases where human rights are not respected. How long will your answer say that the law is the law and that whoever criticises it is against the rule of law? As long as you do nothing, such human dramas will repeat themselves. There is a new case, and you are probably aware of it yourself. A young Brusselser with a mental disability of French nationality was sent back to Turkey in November 2021 after spending a holiday there with his mother. Such situations must not happen again, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, it has now been a little over two months since the contract for the external audit of the asylum and migration services was awarded to the consultant Capgemini Belgium, with the aim of obtaining the first results in the summer of 2022. In this regard, J.A. understands that the methodology has already been determined by dividing the research questions into two parts, namely, the global questions and the specific questions by service. Your policy note also provides that the audit will be carried out in close cooperation with the various asylum and migration services and the firm, and that the stakeholders, I quote, "will have a role to play in the audit". I just wanted to hear from you about this role that you are considering for civil society. In this regard, you received a letter on 15 October from a number of civil society actors, in particular from AVOCATS.BE and ICRÉ, who asked to be represented on an audit accompanying committee to make their expertise available on the issues dealt with by the audit. To date, no reply has been received to this letter. However, it seems essential to me that those actors who are in regular contact with the field and who are confronted with and detect system failures every day can be closely involved in this audit, in order at least to highlight the practical difficulties of the current procedures. Mr Secretary of State, what did you mean by "a role to play in the audit" in your policy note? How are stakeholders involved in the audit today? Who are they? The signatories of the letter of 15 October were obviously not associated, for what reasons? Do you intend to accept the request of civil society to be more closely involved in this audit, for example through an accompanying committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u57	Mr De Smet, the contract will be executed by Capgemini. In November, the launch meeting was held with the company and it was at that time that the first agreements on the implementation of the audit and on how to cooperate with the services were concluded. There is an accompanying committee composed of members of my firm and various departments. External partners will not be part of it. However, they will be involved in the process. It is also important for us to use outside expertise. This is also the concern of several members of this committee as well as of civil society. Capgemini will consult regularly with experts from its network for this purpose. In addition, we have commissioned a number of institutions and individuals to consult with them. In order not to interfere with the confidentiality of contacts, I cannot disclose their names. I can tell you that contacts will also be made with the committee working on the new Migration Code, on which all work has been done by civil society. The audit will be closely monitored. My firm and my services will be closely associated. External people will also be consulted, including people from the legal profession, academia and people with active field experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u58	Mr Secretary of State, thank you, but I am slightly disappointed because I think that civil society would deserve a little more through the accompanying committee. You have avoided appointing a number of interlocutors, which I can understand. I draw your attention to the fact that, in one way or another, the authority is not the only one to decide which civil society and its members have full legitimacy. There is a legitimacy of a number of civil society actors - in particular the two I mentioned - who have asked the question by name. In any case, and even if the answer was negative, I would find it correct that they receive an answer. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of last year, in a joint press release, the Moroccan Ministers of the Interior and Foreign Affairs stated that Morocco wanted a definitive solution for the Moroccan unaccompanied underage foreigners (NBMVs) who are in an illegal situation in Europe. It was stated that Morocco was willing to agree to the return of duly identified NMVs, which would have started partnerships with some countries, including France and Spain. In reply to a question in this connection, in the middle of last year, you stated that there had been a consultation with the Moroccan Ambassador and that it was considered with the various competent departments what such a cooperation might look like. What was the concrete outcome of the consultations between the various competent services in this area? Were there also consultations with countries such as France and Spain, which would already have cooperation with Morocco? Have you had any contact with the Moroccan ambassador on this matter? If so, what was the concrete outcome of that consultation? If not, why not? In the meantime, is there any cooperation with Morocco with regard to the Moroccan NBMVs? If so, how is cooperation going? How many Moroccan NBMVs, in order of size, have returned since then? In their joint press release, the Moroccan ministers stated that the return of NBMVs was slow and difficult, mainly due to the complex procedures in some European countries. Does that also apply to Belgium? What has already been done to change that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u60	Mr Van Langenhove, a review of the general MOU by the Foreign Office is under way. It also includes the theme of unaccompanied minors. Working groups were set up with Morocco to work on this. A few months ago, I indicated at a committee meeting that the Moroccan Ambassador had made it clear that Morocco, especially for unaccompanied minors, is prepared to accept that commitment. That is why we want to include this in the MOU, which is in need of revision. However, Morocco has paused the negotiations through covid. At the moment, therefore, there is no continuation of the negotiations. It will only take place when there is room for this in the sanitary sector. Morocco is particularly strict in terms of covid, including for entry and exit. However, we must try to do as much as possible. The Foreign Affairs Office, despite covid, tries to get as many Moroccan colleagues as possible and to come to a revision of the MOU. As you know, forced return of unaccompanied minors is not possible. It is therefore about the voluntary return of unaccompanied minors. However, it is important that there are sufficient guarantees to organise such a return. The minor must be able to go to family or be provided with a comprehensive reception structure. It is therefore not about the forced return of unaccompanied minors. The voluntary return of unaccompanied minors is often in the best interests of those children. Being totally uprooted from one's own family is not in the interests of the family or the child itself. On the basis of the first talks I have had, like my Moroccan counterparts, I believe that we should devote part of our MOU to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u61	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I am very pleased to hear that there is a commitment from Morocco and the Belgian Government to have unaccompanied minors escorted back to their country of origin, in the interests of the unaccompanied minor stranger himself and, of course, voluntarily. The necessary guarantees must and can, of course, be there. Where there's a will, there's a way. Corona has stood in the way of much, but I read just now on Twitter that Britain will also abolish a whole series of measures, including the duty to mask the mouth. In the meantime, Sweden is no longer asking for a negative test when entering the country. A lot of countries are phasing out. Perhaps we in Belgium, in consultation with tough countries like Morocco, can follow and finally make our migration policy Corona free again. At least I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u62	We look forward to that with you, Mr Van Langenhove.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u63	Secretary of State, I have already asked you several times about Libya. If there is a place on earth that alone concentrates all the horrors of migration, it is certainly this country. Every migrant person who has been there has physical marks of his or her passage. Each one will express itself or remain silent as the practices are horrific: rape, torture, slavery, confinement, exploitation, etc. Over the past few weeks, thousands of people have been camping in front of the headquarters of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in protest against the arrests, three months ago, of 5,000 to 6,000 migrants, in Gargaresh, a western part of the city of Tripoli, where these people had gathered in the hope of an evacuation that never came. On 11 January, a raid took place on the camp: more than 600 people (men, women and children) were arrested and placed in the Ain Zara detention centre. During these three months of protest, David Yambio, Hassan Zakaria and others viewed the situation on the spot. If David and Hassan are still free, although I haven't heard from them in a few days, they are wanted by Libyan Ministry of Migration. The newspaper Le Monde wrote a few weeks ago that "the European Union has delegated to Libya responsibility for rescues at sea in a large area in the Mediterranean, and is providing financial and operational support to Tripoli". According to the images and documents collected by the newspaper, this does not prevent Libyan coastguards from regularly violating basic rules of international law or even committing serious violations of international law. Mr Secretary of State, what were your discussions at European level on the situation in Libya? How can we end this hell on earth, as Amnesty International calls it? Are resettlement campaigns possible between the European Union and Libya? If these refoulements by the Libyan Coast Guard are proven, as the Le Monde newspaper's investigation suggests, will you plead for the end of the partnership between the European Union and Libya?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u64	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, the situation in Libya is followed by the Council in various technical working groups. In November, Vice-President Al-Koni met in Brussels with High Representative Borrell and Commissioners Johansson and Várhelyi, in particular on migration issues. The difficulties encountered by CSDP missions were highlighted and the European Union raised issues of security and accessibility, stressing the importance of managing the expectations of the Libyan partner. Member States also expressed concern at the increase in arrivals of migrants from Libya. They stressed the importance of combating trafficking, supporting border management and stabilizing the country to stem migration flows. Member States also called on the European Union to be more demanding vis-à-vis the Libyan authorities and to continue to call for the gradual closure of detention centres. Any assistance from the European Union should be provided in accordance with the principles of the Union. Let's be clear! It is up to the European Union to ask Libyans to assume more responsibility and to evaluate projects and missions on the basis of an analysis of their actions and facts. Thanks to the Emergency Transit Mechanism, people living in Libya were evacuated to Rwanda and Niger and then resettled by UNHCR, for example in Belgium. Resettlement campaigns were also possible between Member States and Libya but were difficult to achieve given the difficulties on the ground and UNHCR's lack of access to Libya.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, we are entering into issues that go far beyond Belgium. Negotiations are taking place with the Libyan government, which has no democratic legitimacy. All Libyans will tell you. In fact, the international community itself recognizes this because it has been calling for elections for the past few months. Reports come to us almost every week, showing that children are raped in dozens every day and that slavery is still practised in Libya in 2022. And the Member States are worried about the increase in arrivals! It's hopeless. I believe that, unfortunately, this shows the weakness of the European Union's political project on human migration. Thank you, however, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic664x.u66	We have thus come to the end of our work for today. Thank you very much for being here, Mr Secretary of State. About 20 questions remain unanswered. In another meeting, we may need to take a little more time to get it answered. I thank everyone for their presence.
