ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u1	Madam President, first of all, thank you very much to the committee for organising this important topical debate, which follows our extremely interesting visit to the Haren prison site. Minister, on this occasion, we had the opportunity to discuss with Mr. Van Poecke, the director of Brussels prisons, particularly regarding the recruitment of prison officers who, according to him, is "the Achilles heel" of the mega-prisoner, hence my first question. Minister, what is the result of your marketing campaigns for the function of prison officer? Will recruitment events take place in collaboration with the City of Brussels? If so, how often and with what results? In your opinion, will this strategy be sufficient to fill the cadres of Haren prison? What steps do you plan to take to make the function more attractive? Do you consider, for example, hiring agents who do not necessarily have Belgian nationality? At present, only Belgians can hold a statutory office. On a more technical level, I mean that in addition to the personnel assigned specifically to one unit, there will also be traffic agents who will have to accompany the detainees to move from one unit to another. Do you confirm that? What is foreseen in the event of a significant level of absenteeism within a unit, whether due to an epidemic cluster or to a strike? Is there a budget for the supervision of traffic agents? Mr. Van Poecke also reiterated his concern about the number of officers in Brussels prisons who wish to be transferred to prisons other than Haren. They don't want to work in Haren. What is your strategy to transfer as many agents as possible to Haren, to convince them? Finally, Haren Prison will host for the first time a new type of agents, the detention attendants. You have often gone back to that, but there is no detail today as to how many they are, how they are trained or how they work, leaving those in charge of this future prison in uncertainty. When will the royal decree providing for the status of these new agents be adopted? Will it be developed in consultation with the field? Madam President, I had a second question. May I put it down?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u2	You may put together your two questions immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u3	All right. Normally, it's two minutes per question. I wanted to make sure. Thank you. Minister, my second question is more specifically about the fact that this prison complex includes an open-regime party for women. This is obviously an excellent thing because today only the Hoogstraten prison offers this possibility. It is quite appropriate to have open schemes for women when it is known that they are generally at a much lower level of danger than men and therefore need less stringent safety standards. On the occasion of our visit, we were able to see that the open unit in Haren will be able to accommodate 60 inmates and the closed unit 90. Today, in Berkendael prison, out of 80 prisoners, 50 are in a semi-open regime. This would allow 10 new inmates to benefit from an open regime in Haren. Minister, will Haren's closed women's unit be well adapted to the particularities of women? How many women are eligible on average per year in Belgium to receive an open place? On what basis? How many of them actually benefit from such a scheme? Are you planning to provide more open places for women, whether in Haren or in other prisons? If so, where and within what time frame? We also found that, for mothers with children, two rooms are provided, one for the mother and the other for the child. What will be the difference with Berkendael in terms of the child's detention? How will this be done? How old can a child be accommodated in prison with his or her mother? What will be the conditions of his schooling? I would like to take advantage of the current affairs debate to address two additional questions. First of all, this project poses a serious mobility problem, because the stations are not located near the Haren site. We were reminded, during our visit, that shuttles would be planned with a budget from the Justice FPS. Can you give us some details about this? What about the cost of mobility? If Haren and Haren-Sud are included in the Brupass, this is not the case for the stations of Diegem and Buda. Have you consulted with Minister Gilkinet to include them, but also to address broader mobility issues for lawyers, families and hearings? Indeed, we have seen that five courtrooms are planned, but you will understand that they cannot replace the court, especially for prisoners in pre-trial detention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u4	Mr Minister, I am pleased that the committee has engaged on our request to hold a collective follow-up session of our visit to the Haren site. Let me first ask you a few questions about women in detention. According to my information, an ironing workshop open to the neighborhood was planned but would, it seems, eventually be replaced by a bicycle repair shop. Will this have an impact on women's access to prison work? If that's right, will women in prison be able to work at the bike workshop? What other activities will be planned for women? The categories for women and men are not the same. While men will be divided into four categories, for women only two categories are provided for: open or closed. According to what criteria will women be assigned to one or the other scheme? The infrastructure provides for the possibility of receiving mothers with children. How many mothers with children are currently detained in Berkendael and elsewhere and will still be detained at the time of transfer? Will activities for children be organized or will the children be permanently dependent on their mothers? This would have an impact on activities that are possible for mothers. Is it possible for children to be accommodated in an environment outside the prison? The advantage of the construction and development of new buildings is that it is possible to take into account the specific needs of women, who are now better known, even though there is not yet much research at this stage. Will the buildings reserved for women be fitted out with certain specific needs in mind? To take an example, during periods of menstruation, will each person's access to basic equipment such as adapted toilets or garbage bins be guaranteed? Are there any other specific arrangements? I come to my questions about prison work at Haren prison and on the construction site. Is it true that detainees at Brussels Prison are invited to work on Haren's site? If so, what is the hourly wage? What are the health consequences for prisoners wishing to do this work when they return to Brussels prison (forty years, etc.)?( )? Could you tell us what types of workshops are planned in Haren as part of Cellmade? Will it work on behalf of public institutions, on behalf of private companies, or both? How many inmates will be able to work there? For what hourly wage? Will qualifying vocational training be organised in Haren? If so, for how many prisoners at a time? Under what criteria would these detainees be selected? Do these trainings concern both women and men? More specifically, I believe that the project to organise a space of 2,000 m2 of bare area had to be abandoned in view of the prohibitive prices charged under the DBFM contract by private partners for adaptations. This project will finally be implemented at Ittre prison at a much lower price. Can you confirm this and give us more information? You said you wanted to make prison work a priority. How does this priority translate into changes in the number of staff assigned to it? More generally, prisoners today work without social protection, without contracts, without contributions and at very low hourly rates. Is consideration being given to the possibility of employing prisoners under employment contracts, in order to guarantee them correct wages – which can also help them to pay, for example, damages or criminal fines to which they have been sentenced – and, on the other hand, to enable them to retain their rights as social insured persons, thus guaranteeing better integration and a more dignified life when they leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the visit to the Haren prison site on 21 January 2022 was very interesting and enlightening in many respects, for example on the implementation of another detention and a different way of managing a prison. I have gathered a few questions under one theme. Could you clarify further how the new way of carrying out prison sentences will be put in place in Haren Prison? What are the plans developed? In view of the fact that the prison is far removed from the city centre and, above all, from the courthouse, how can the various trips be carried out in practice for detainees who are required to go to the palace for the chambers of the council, for the hearings of the correctional court, for the duties of investigation? The arrival in the middle of a period of urban traffic seems impossible. Will the planned shuttles be sufficient for prison staff, will they run at every hour of the day (morning and late evening hours) and will they be coordinated with the offer of trains, buses and trams? For visitors, what will be the concrete possibilities of public transport, including weekends and public holidays? Are you in consultation with the lawyers' federations regarding the difficulties of visiting and defending detainees? Courtrooms are being built. What hearings are these rooms for? In each detention unit, a "time-out" cell is planned. Could you elaborate on what this cell will be used for and what type of inmates? How will it be equipped and what will be the periods during which an inmate may be confined to it? How does this cell fit into a new approach to detention? Finally, can you specify the opening schedules of the different units?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u6	Mr Aouasti, you can ask your four questions in a row.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, first of all, let me say thank you to you, to your teams and to the prison staff of the future Haren prison for the welcome that has been given to us, and for the visit that has been made. It was enriching, open. It was nice and it allowed us to narrow down the ambition of this project. My questions concern four themes and I am not going to read them in extenso. The first is the question of the courtrooms that are being built, and the question of the future protocol with the judiciary. The second is the staff of the future Haren prison. Then come the questions of the regime in the facility outside the prison compound and, finally, the questions of the centre of medical expertise. On the issue of courtrooms, we were told that ultimately, to date, there was no agreement to hold hearings in the future Board Chamber in these courtrooms. From then on, detainees should continue to be transferred to the Brussels Courthouse, but according to a memorandum of understanding to be agreed with the judiciary. What is the status of these discussions with the judiciary at the operational level? In addition, we were told that if inmates were to be transported at once, difficulties would arise. Can we ensure to date that the detainee's right to be physically present at his or her hearing will therefore be guaranteed? I come to the question of personnel. We have seen the staff plans that will probably require more staff tomorrow at Haren Prison than there are today for the Brussels Prison sites, even though for personal reasons, and often of proximity, some 120 members of the Brussels Prison have already requested their transfer to prisons closer to their home. We are told that there would still be a regulatory deficit regarding the difference between the status of prison staff and that of accompanying staff, which was voted at the end of 2021, and that the Selor would find it difficult to organise recruitment. What staff plan is planned for Haren Prison? When should the royal decree giving status to the staff of the future prison be promulgated? What difficulties does the Selor have in this case? When will recruitment processes begin? When will the planned Job Days with the city of Brussels take place? A collaboration with the École Régionale des Métiers de la Sécurité, which also organizes Job Days every year, and where there is an integrated Actiris branch specific to the professions of prevention and safety, has taken place, or have any contacts been made? Has a vocational training programme for recruits already been defined? If so, when should the training processes begin? With regard to institutions outside the compound, could you tell me which inmates will be entitled to an "open" placement? Have you ever defined investment criteria? Will this regime be a punishment modality, in accordance with the 2006 Act, or will it be considered that detainees in this building will be subject to the 2005 Act? With regard to an open regime, what will be the specificities of these wings? Have any contacts been made to optimize the reintegration of prisoners who will be in this building? I am thinking here of a whole series of operators, particularly on employment issues. I come to my question about the psychiatric centre of expertise. It is known that this centre has been designated and that there is always a difference between the moment a project is imagined and the moment when it is executed, especially since it was thought of at a time when the issues of psychiatric care, psychological care and psychiatric assessment were perhaps less prevalent than today. In the current situation, do we have any indication as to the number of persons who could apply to be taken over by the Haren centre, which should be competent for the whole Belgian territory? Do we have projections in this area? Is the centre dimensioned to allow for an extension of missions if the legislator had to decide, that is, if we decided that psychiatric expertise is needed in areas other than those that exist today? What would be the absorption capacity of this centre? Would the centre be able to respond to all these requests?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u8	Mr Minister, the number of issues in this topical debate reflects the great interest both in the visit and in the project of Haren itself. I will address different themes through my questions. The first is the recruitment of prison staff. Several colleagues have already referred to this. During our visit, Mr. Van Poecke told us about the difficulties he encounters in keeping prison officers in Brussels, in view of the numerous requests for transfer which he receives and which he must, for the moment, refuse. The move to Haren, due in particular to the remote location, may further complicate this situation, especially since additional staff will have to be recruited in relation to the current situation. We also know about the shortage in the sector. The unions still reminded us this Monday that if there is an official shortage of 5 per cent of officers, this number is actually much higher and can reach as many as 20 per cent of absences, which both prisoners and agents suffer. Are initiatives taken in collaboration with, among other things, the City of Brussels – and especially its CPAS – Actiris and the VDAB in view of the opening of the Haren site, in order to recruit Brussels staff or who wish to work in Brussels? Trade union representatives put forward the proposal to grant a bonus for agents wishing to stay in Brussels, since this is where the shortage is most striking. What do you think? The French Community and the Brussels-Capital Region have recently announced the creation of 2,100 new childcare places in Brussels by 2026. It seems to me that there is an opportunity here, which will also increase the attractiveness of future posts in Haren. Is there any reflection or could it be carried out with the community, regional and communal authorities in order to alleviate the need for early childhood care in the vicinity of the prison complex for the many staff members? The reception of the children of detainees could also be organized there. Minister, after his visit to the Haren site, the CPSC had been alerted by the appearance of time-out cells, which would be inspired by institutions reserved for young people deprived of their liberty. According to the CPSC, these cells lack a legal or regulatory basis, and it is currently impossible to know under what rules and conditions prisoners would be placed there. During our visit, we were able to see one of these cells. On that occasion, Mr. Van Poecke told us that his opinion was that section 110 of the Law of Principles on Special Security Measures constituted an adequate legal basis for the use of such cells. Is that your opinion too? If so, does this mean that the use of these cells will be strictly subject to the conditions laid down by law: the presence of serious indices of risks to order and safety; the measure proportionate and specifically countering the danger in question; the limitation on the strictly necessary duration and to the strict extent of countering a threat; the limitation to seven days, which can be extended up to three times and on the basis of a reasoned decision of management? I will return to the punishment cells whose beds have handles that allow restraint. This had already challenged the CPSC, knowing that restraint can be dangerous if it is misused. There are studies on this subject concerning psychiatry and nursing homes. The use of coercive measures is strictly regulated, including by the ECHR, which considers that any coercion not strictly necessary constitutes a violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Could you give us more information on the reason for the presence of this new device, as well as on the persons who would be entitled to use it, and could you indicate what training would be necessary and provided to do so? I come to a few questions about the use of cloud prison and human detention. There is no doubt that in terms of hygiene and quality of life, Haren's future complex will be a huge step forward compared to the very unhealthy infrastructure which makes the daily unworthy of detainees in Brussels prison. However, a few years ago, reading an article marked me strongly: "Some inmates prefer Forest cockroaches to Leuze's coldness." The article highlighted some of the paradoxal effects of some new very clean prisons with numerous use of computerization and cloud prison. According to the supervisory commission, all this removed a significant part of human relations. The mode of message interaction was also identified as potentially problematic because it could exacerbate tensions in the event of a response deemed late or unsatisfactory. It has been found that Haren relies heavily on this operation. Has there already been a quantitative review of the use of technologies such as these in new prisons? Can the lessons of such an assessment be taken into account in the construction and implementation of future prisons so that the human dimension is kept as far as possible between officers and detainees and greater isolation is avoided? We were told that the first day after the inmates arrived was a day of training to use these technologies. We were taught, for example, that canteen requests could be made from the cell called "room" now. Is one day enough for everyone? Indeed, in prison, there are a large number of prisoners who need support to master certain technologies, and sometimes also an illiterate public. What is planned here in terms of accompanying and training in this regard? I then have some questions about the environment in the cell and outside, for the future prison. During our visit to the site, we saw the future establishment of green areas, and several trees waiting to be planted. A vegetable garden would also be planned. These are important initiatives to preserve a certain connection with nature, not to live in a purely concrete environment. This is important for the well-being of inmates, as is access to open air. On the other hand, the choice has been made to place windows that do not open, even if ventilation grids on the sides allow to bring in some air. Prisoners cannot therefore pass their hand outside to feel the sun or the wind. We were told that we had to choose between this solution and bars. We have also been told that every inmate will have twice an hour's preau per day, in secure conditions, which is important because the preau is the most dangerous place in the prison. If prisoners were to give up for fear for their safety, they would no longer have access to the open air. Minister, what is the total surface area of the green spaces and how is it distributed among the units? The punishment and safety cells are equipped with small individual meadows, only in vertical view and partially obstructed by grids. They are very small and exercise real activity there is not possible. The Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP) also made the same observation. What adjustments can still be made to improve these meadows? With regard to the decoration of cells, does the public-private contract allow inmates to paste or put pictures or pictures on the wall or will it be considered a degradation that would be billed? Finally, with regard to mobility and accessibility, the future prison is in a very decentralised position in relation to the main routes and public transport lines, which poses significant difficulties in terms of accessibility. Some initiatives are planned to address this in part. For workers, shuttles will be organized. Which stations will be served by these shuttles? What proportion of staff does this concern? Are shuttles available for all or only some breaks? Does staff benefit from incentives to get to work in Haren by public transport or through soft mobility? Will shuttles also be provided for visitors, lawyers, associations and services in prison? I wanted to point out here that there is also a gender equality dimension, particularly with regard to visits. Studies tend to show that women with close relatives visit them more, while women in detention receive few visits. What specific initiatives could be taken to facilitate access to the site by avoiding increasing gender inequality in relation to visits? Finally, how will the transport of detainees be ensured, especially to the Palace of Justice? Mr. Van Poecke told us that it was impossible to transport all the detainees concerned at the same time, for example by 9 a.m. The last few questions. Have any contacts been made or will they be made with STIB, De Lijn or other operators to provide additional access solutions from and to the prison complex? What will be the journey of trucks to or from the workshops? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u9	Minister, due to personal circumstances, I was unable to experience the visit to the property in Haren. I've visited the yard repeatedly in the past. In that sense, I have a few questions for you. It is a great success that this yard is so advanced, because the whole country is waiting for its completion, especially the poor prisons of Saint Gillis, Berkendael and to a lesser extent Frost. When preparing the plans there was a lot of attention to the courtrooms. Several colleagues have already stressed this. When one visits prisons, one cannot ignore the fact that it has often been thought of in the past. Anyone who sees the beautiful assistant room in Beveren's prison can only get the idea that it is very unfortunate that it is not being used. I even wanted to amend the Constitution once to allow the Assenhof of Antwerp to sit there, because at some point in time there was no good assistant office in Antwerp. In this context, the previous government has tried to maximise the use of that part of the building as useful as possible. In the Brussels area there was a certain resistance to this, but anyone who has witnessed the transport of prisoners from prisons in Brussels, but also from other provinces, to the cells in the Palace of Justice and the difficult road that prisoners have to take to get into a courtroom, can only be pleased that they have sought a solution here that reduces transport difficulties, not only because it is safer, but also because it is much more humane for the prisoners, who sometimes have to wait 17 hours in that cell from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., with all the hygiene and other conditions. This is not just the case in Brussels. In the new courthouse in Antwerp there are almost 100 cells in the basement. My dream, and not just mine, has always been that in each province the detention house and prison of the detention house next to the court of first instance, the correction court and, more specifically, the council chambers would lie. That is the case in Hasselt. In Hasselt we only have to cross the square with the prisoners, which is an incredibly good situation from the point of view of security and from a humanitarian point of view. If this could be taken into account in the future in the installation of new prisons and new courthouses, at least for the detention houses, there will be progress. Let us be honest. A council room can last three hours, but usually lasts less than an hour and often less than fifteen minutes. This does not mean that the rights of the defence and human rights should not be fully respected. That is precisely why we in Haren have ensured, with a considerable additional cost, that there is separate access, which is fully in line with the most modern best practices on human rights. You have my full support, but I hope that you will succeed in concluding a protocol on this subject which will allow Brussels to be somewhat relieved of its burden. Heren is the city of Brussels in terms of postal number, so to speak. Haren is not a separate municipality. So that is something that, I believe, should succeed. That doesn't mean we're talking about videoconferencing. I do not look the President in the eye when I speak about it. However, the corona crisis has taught us something. Mr. Secretary, what are we doing here with you? We're having a video conference with you. We are attentive. If we were to see each other physically, perhaps we would be even more attentive or give the impression that we are more attentive. We have now discovered, including the legal world and the judicial world, that this can sometimes help. Here you have the opportunity to keep the session physically, with respect for human rights and with a certain comfort for the prisoners, but also for the investigators and lawyers, if the sessions are sufficiently concentrated, which is always done with certain types of sessions, insofar as I keep up with the calendar. I myself have spent years studying how this was done in the Brussels Palace of Justice. That wasn't optimal. I hope you can lighten up on this. The security force has now been transferred to the police. This has improved the operation of the security system, but the transport of prisoners remains a concern, as well as the conditions in which our prisons can accommodate these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u10	Mr Geens, you have already used twice your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u11	I hardly ever say anything, Madam President, so I will be very brief. I think this is extremely important. We fought for it for six years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u13	It is rare for me to make a presentation like yours, Mr. Boukili, and never with the same eloquence. My second question is this. We have attached great importance to the observation center in Haren. We even opened an interim observation center in Saint-Gilles, hoping that that could precede Haren. I also think it is important that in the observation centre the transfer of prisoners to the internment can take place if it appears during prison time that at that time there is no accountability. This is an achievement of the new internment legislation. So I hope, Minister, that POC can be used for both purposes and has sufficient capacity, because that will dramatically improve the humanity of our penitentiary system. Excuse me for taking so much time, Madam President, I will hardly ever do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u14	Mr Geens, you must not feel targeted. My remark was not addressed directly to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u15	I never feel personally targeted by your remarks, Mr. Boukili. I am always very kind to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u16	I just wanted to point out that there was a rule. If, for example, the speaking time allocated to me was more than four minutes, I would allow myself to expand on my statement rather than just asking three questions. Sometimes we all exceed our speaking time, but your question seems to me to have been longer than normal. Madam President, Minister, I come to my question. The Haren prison will have a capacity of about 1,200 prisoners. With regard to the recruitment of prison officers who will run this prison, you said that it is mainly staff from Brussels prisons, which will soon be closed, who will go to work in Haren. You are also planning to apply the differentiation of the functions of prison officers as a pilot project. Do you confirm this information? Will Brussels agents transferred to Haren prison be sufficient to fill the frame? How many people is this about? Will new officers be recruited? If so, how many and under what status? It appears that, in a recent statutory recruitment, the 325 winners of the examination would have been contacted not for a statutory position, but for a contract of employment. Can you confirm this information? How do you justify this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that you enjoyed the visit to the prison in Haren, but it has also raised many questions. I would like to thank each and every one of you for the quality of the questions. It proves your interest in the execution of the sentence and the new approach to it in Haren, with a new kind of prison system. I do not know, Madam President, whether I can thank Members for the amount of questions. There are 79 of them in total, and I would like to apologise for the fact that my answer will be concrete, but also long. My cabinet and administration have been working on it with ten people for two days. That is Parliament's right of control, which I always respect, but you will understand that it takes a great deal of time and energy from the services. Because Haren's project team is in the last line towards the opening, we are not yet able to answer some very specific questions in a very concrete way. I will divide my answers into fifteen themes. With regard to the new way of carrying out sentences, unlike conventional Dukepetial-style prisons, the previous governments opted for Haren prison to create a prison village with smaller buildings and life units of about thirty people. This innovative infrastructure will contribute to the modernisation and strengthening of the Belgian prison system. The movement of detainees will be regulated by means of a system of badges programmed to open traffic doors and cells. This means that inmates can move to the site without physical supervision, for example to go to a workshop. This new development does not prevent us from remaining strict and giving priority to safety: the movement of detainees will be monitored and directed from a control centre, and security assistants will travel in the building to monitor grain. The life of the inmate is life-oriented with others in a community system. Activities shall be adapted to the specific needs identified by a risk assessment during the host period. The time freed by this method of work will allow the detention attendants to support and accompany the detainees in their detention plan and their return to society. This is the novelty of this way of working. As mentioned a few weeks ago, I am determined to invest in meaningful detention. The active preparation of prisoners for their reintegration into society begins from the beginning of detention by means of an individual detention plan, by strengthening psychosocial services, by offering appropriate employment, training, treatment and support, and by developing small-scale detention projects. That's all that's planned in Haren's prison, and it's important. I come to the chapter on the regime. After a period of observation of a few weeks, and on the basis of a multidisciplinary consultation in which the remarks of psychologists and prison attendants will be taken into account, the inmate will be transferred to a regime and unit of life that best meets his needs. The different regimes – open, semi-open, closed – are still being developed. Instead of seeing an open regime as a reward for good behavior, as is often the case now, or after the progressive passage of all regimes, the question is reversed in Haren and during that first multidisciplinary consultation it is examined whether there are counter-indications to place an inmate in an open regime. Mr Aouasti, every convicted prisoner is evaluated. It is on the basis of his profile, the detention plan and the path of his detention that a classification decision is made. Specific criteria have already been established for certain programmes and institutions. Other criteria will also be defined for the Haren wing. These issues are being developed within the prison opening project group. It is clear that the law of 2005 is the legal basis for the open section regime. It is applicable in all prisons, regardless of the regime applicable to them. More specific aspects will be included in the Rules of Procedure. In general, inmates staying in the open wing will benefit from a greater degree of autonomy and movement. As already indicated, the regime of the wing itself has yet to be developed. Secondly, the services of the federated entities submitted a structural offer with regard to the Brussels prison. They will do the same for Haren's prison. They will continue to develop this system, also for new target groups and departments. This is an integral part of their primary mission in prisons. In addition, the inmates concerned, like all others, can call on the staff of the psychosocial unit of the prison, who can help them develop their reclassification plan. I come to the questions of Mrs Matz and Mr Hugon and Mr Geens. I refer you to the answer I gave at the committee meeting on January 19th to the questions asked about a opinion of the CPSC. As I said then, I will take the initiative to supplement the Royal Decree of 3 February 2019 with a section describing these standards for secure cells. These secure cells are provided for in article 112 of the Basic Law, which regulates special security measures. The secure cell is described as a cell without objects whose use could be dangerous. This description corresponds to the purpose of using certain cells that are called time-out cells in one prison, low stress cells in another and isolation cells elsewhere. The specific equipment and the choice of materials for secure cells will be determined when the Royal Decree is amended. Of course, care will be taken to ensure that the cells in Haren Prison comply with this order, but also with the standards of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture. The infrastructure and the development of different individual meadows meet the standards set. Madame Hugon, Haren is not the only prison where there are hooks on the beds of the security cell. It is obviously not because equipment is present or supplied that it is used in a standard manner. The use of restraints to attach detainees to a bed is done to protect their own physical integrity, thus in the interest of the person concerned and for as short a period as possible. The restraint of people is always done in a medical setting. There are clear protocols and instructions on this. In the context of reintegration, we must ensure that prisoners are not illiterate in digital matters when they return to society. These service platforms can help them develop the necessary skills. In this way, inmates can use the services but also communicate with social workers without the need for a third party. This gives them more guarantee, flexibility and freedom. This also allows them to maintain maximum contact with their loved ones. All these things are crucial in the context of their reintegration. Moreover, there is no question that these platforms limit human contacts. In Haren, one begins with the detention attendants whose main task is to supervise and assist detainees during their detention process. This is mainly done through human contacts and communication. Needless to say, Prison Cloud's experiences were taken into account when developing the digital service platform for inmates. To give an example, the need to train staff has been foreseen. We already have several years of experience with a service platform in some new prisons, as I think Beveren, and we will draw on good practice in training and education in collaboration with the local social partners. This will result in concrete measures. There are also good experiences with video conferencing, especially from prisons, and they continue to be organized. Here, too, a large number of inmates are using this system. That's a good thing. I come to the third chapter, the hatch on women. A lot of attention is paid to women in prison. Before I answer your questions about the women's section of Haren Prison, I would like to introduce you to the regime for women in Haren Prison. There is a closed diet and an open diet. In the closed regime are mothers with children. I'll give you the exact amounts. This will be the first open section for women detained in Brussels and in the French-speaking part of the country. I come to the questions of Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Hugon. The particularities of women and mothers are well taken into account. The closed section for women consists of two living units. The first unit consists of 35 pieces and is designed as an open diet. Thus, ten pieces are connected in pairs with an intermediate door. For each mother-child combination, a separation door is opened. When five children are present, the unit capacity is reduced to 30 people. All rooms have the same equipment. Our housing unit has a capacity of ten rooms and is provided as a closed-regime housing unit. The closed unit infrastructure for women is not very different from that of men. The building offers sufficient common space, classrooms and/or recreation rooms. Particular attention was paid to ensuring that the closed section of women on campus could be a functional entity. I can also tell you that all the necessary sanitary facilities are provided for women. They have access to sanitary towels. They can buy them themselves, as is the case in the outside world, but for women who cannot afford to buy them, the institution provides the necessary equipment. There is also cooperation with external organisations that can support these women if they so wish. With regard to Mrs Rohonyi's question, on 31 January in Belgium there were 497 women detained and 7 children present with their mothers – 6 in Bruges and 1 in Berkendael – out of the nine sections of women in our prisons. Above all, it must be understood that each of these sections is clearly separated from the other sections of the institutions to which they are attached. But apart from certain exceptions – such as Berkendael – these sections are also integrated into an institution that accommodates other inmates. For the regime applicable to inmates, the local directorates of the other eight institutions must therefore deal with the architecture of their buildings, as the rule remains the non-mixed nature of activities, such as walking and sports. The regime in place in each of these sections must therefore take account of these architectural realities, but it is regular that in the section itself, the regime applied allows for a real opening. Thus, of the 497 women I have just mentioned, many already benefit from an open regime with restrictions related to non-mixity and/or architectural limitations. Mrs. Hugon, mevrouw Bury, detention must make sense. The security measures applied to certain target groups must be proportionate and tailored to the individual or target group. 75% of inmates will be placed in an open or semi-open regime unit and will be encouraged to participate in a range of activities such as courses, employment or sports. The 64 places taken in Berkendael's prison are in a closed ward because there is no open ward. The women who are now staying there can, objectively speaking, stay in a less secure ward. They will therefore be placed in the open section of Haren. Each case is, of course, individually evaluated by a multidisciplinary team to detect possible contraindications. I turn to questions 7.3 by Mrs Hugon and 1.3 by Mrs Rohonyi. The Haren prison will have five mother/child places in the open area and five other mother/child places in the closed area. The total capacity of mothers with children is therefore much higher than in Berkendael. There is currently a mother and her child at Brekendael Prison. The opening of the Haren prison is still too far away to have an idea of the number of mothers with children who will stay there. The open regime and the open department are new developments in Brussels allowed by the new architecture. Collaborations with services such as the Office of Birth and Childhood are good and will remain unchanged. There are also collaborations with volunteers from external organizations who accompany children when they leave. These collaborations will also remain in place. However, the legal framework applied is obviously national and it is up to the age of three that children can stay with their mother in prison. Let me turn to Mrs Hugon's question 7.1. Ironing and cycling workshops are projects that have not yet taken a definitive form. Nothing has been decided yet. In addition, the project team is studying forms of social employment. In all cases, a number of female prisoners will be employed in domestic services. The distribution of inmates who will be employed in the facilities and/or workshops has not yet taken place. I come to chapter D, the chapter on the secure clinical observation center. The safe clinical observation centre. With regard to Mr. Aouasti's question 13.1, the decision to place the detainee under observation was taken by the investigating judge on the case. Since 1 January 2020, the Brussels prison – as Mr Geens, my predecessor, has reminded us – has a temporary area pending the opening of Haren. To date, a total of three people have been placed there. The secure clinical observation centre in Haren has thirty units spread over two living units of fifteen people. Mr Aouasti, to your questions 13.2 and 13.4, it is difficult to make a prognosis because the decision to place persons is made by an investigating judge. We can only conclude that, since 1 January 2020, only three people have been there. The expected capacity appears to be sufficient at this time. It is difficult to answer your question 13.3 because it depends on what is actually expected. The secure clinical observation centre is designed specifically and has an appropriate architecture and infrastructure for 30 people. Let me turn to Mrs Hugon's questions, 8.2 and 8.5. Like the working tools of the prison administration, Haren's tools will be used primarily to attract outside employers. The establishment of clean production sites, i.e. for clean administration, is also explored. We still don't know how many prisoners we can get to work there. Wages will be the same as in other prisons. Cellmade teams located in Nivelles and Hasselt are responsible for dealing with the business process for Haren. On question 8.3 by Ms Hugon, the project team is currently developing the regime in cooperation with the federated entities. Some kind of vocational training is provided for in the specifications. The company that manages the kitchen must do so by employing inmates, in a context of vocational training. Consultations are also under way on the implementation of vocational training within the framework of other establishment services. There are seven rooms for vocational training. One of them is equipped with a kitchen and the other six are ad hoc empty spaces with a classroom and technical equipment for the organization of vocational training. With regard to Ms Hugon's question 8.4, I confirm that the installation of a workshop complying with the AFSCA standards has been cancelled, because it is too expensive. However, an entrepreneur who would like to engage in long-term cooperation with the prison is free to make the necessary investment to equip a workshop there. Question 8.6 by Mrs Hugon is not specific to Haren. I think it is important to point out that prison work is the subject of a full chapter of the Act of 12 January 2005. There is therefore a legal basis for this work. Reform of this system is not a priority. The main priority is to develop job offers both in Haren and in other establishments. It is by allowing as many inmates as possible to work, whether in Cellmade workshops or within the various departments of the institution, that effective reintegration can be promoted, which is one of my objectives in order to help limit recidivism. I come now to the next chapter on the works, les travaux, le blackmailer. It's about question No. 3.1 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, No. 6.1 by Mrs Bury and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 4.1 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. There are several stages of testing. The first test days started on 25 January 2022. Several test days are planned between that date and 14 June 2022. Since October 2021 until the end of the works, continuous testing and retests have been carried out. The techniques are followed by the services of the Government of the Buildings. The functionalities are followed by the Projectteam Haren. Madam President, in reply to your question No. 3.2, on question No. 6.2 by Mrs Bury and Question No 9.5, by Mrs Matz, I would like to inform you that the opening of Haren will take place in phases. The opening of the different entities will be spread over several months. The transfer of prisoners will be linked to the surrender and gradual entry into service of the different entities. The concrete schemes are being worked out. In the timetable drawn up by the group of projects, the time lines have not yet been fully defined. Nevertheless, we are working for about nine months to ensure that Haren prison is fully operational. Madam President, to your question No. 3.3 I can answer that all cell complexes will be completed before the prisoners are transferred. The cell complexes will then be equipped with furniture and other logistics materials in phases. The transfer of prisoners will take place in stages as the equipment of the cell complexes progresses. Mrs Hugon, as far as your question 8.1 is concerned, you are right, it is mainly a matter of unloading the furniture. This work concerns immunized inmates at the Forest site. The prisoners concerned receive an allowance of 2.5 euros per hour, which corresponds to a standard hourly wage for prisoners employed in Cellmade and paid per hour. Later in the year, several of them will be employed to repair the furniture. Madam President, to your question No. 3.5 I would like to inform you that the budget is EUR 382 million, including VAT. Concrete information on all projects can be found on the website of the Regie der Bouwken. As a DBFM is built in the form of a DBFM, this is done with a closed envelope. Only if additional changes are requested will it create an additional cost. These amendments are, of course, limited and will always be submitted to the Finance Inspector. For Justice, the additional costs currently amount to EUR 615,990,25, payable on the date of availability, and EUR 5,062,76 per quarter for maintenance. Mrs Hugon, we listened carefully and found that you also asked an additional question about the windows that do not open. It was not in the text of your questions, but it is not a problem because it is a topical debate and all questions can be asked. To answer you, the same applies to all new prisons. It is not a question of preventing ventilation and the view on the outside, since this is well planned. During my visit, I was able to see that we were no longer going to use conventional bars, but rather ordinary windows. This new architecture will prevent inmates from throwing garbage out the window. If the bars obstruct the view, the windows are designed to bring maximum light into the cells. With regard to accessibility addressed by Ms. Hugon in her question 19.2 and Ms. Matz in her questions 9.2d and 9.2c, there is no problem for visitors. The City of Brussels and its periphery are very well served by public transport. Three stations are located two or three kilometres from the prison, while the Boulevard de la Woluwe is very well served by bus lines. In short, there are no access problems for visitors, as parking spaces and bicycle parking are also provided. In addition, Haren Prison will offer continuous visits instead of fixed slots. Even if visitors are somewhat delayed by public transport, their visit will not be mortgaged or shortened. Discussions on this subject are still ongoing. I will of course contact my counterparts in charge of Mobility, if necessary. At this point, I note that every player in Mobility is aware of the stakes. Ladies, for your following questions, 9.2 and 19.4, mobility to this prison is an aspect that has greatly caught our attention, whether it is the movement of staff or visitors. In 2021, my administration contacted the transport companies, the shared mobility companies – to extend the opening hours –, the competent regional administrations and the Brussels-Capitale administration to identify multimodality paths. Mrs Matz, on your question 9.2a and, Mrs Hugon, on your question 19.5 on transfers between the prison and the Palais de Justice, agreements will be reached between the administration of DG PPE, the DAB and the judiciary. We are trying to limit transfers to the maximum. We need to take traffic jams into account when transferring and for other transport to prison. Then I come to Chapter H, recruitment and employee branding, with questions from Mrs Rohonyi, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mr Aouasti and Mrs Hugon. The challenges facing Haren's prison in terms of staff are enormous. I'm not denying that. In total, we want to recruit 270 people for Haren's prison. 160 of these recruitments are intended to replace those staff who wish to work closer to home and to be able to cope with natural outflow. A total of 110 full-time employees have been provided for an extension of the staff framework. Indeed, it has not always been obvious in the past to be able to recruit enough people in Brussels. That's why we've been using our employee brandingcampaign 'Da's Just' since November. With this campaign, we want to highlight a job as a penitentiary security guard in prison. The campaign has already been launched in the province of Antwerp and has produced good results. In December 188 people posted for a job in one of the prisons in the province of Antwerp. However, it is a province which has a tight labour market and where there is a lot of competition from the port. These results are already very encouraging. We will also organise a recruitment event in March in collaboration with the City of Brussels. We are also planning to participate in an employment fair in Evere in March. Evere is a municipality bordering Haren, and this fair is an ideal recruitment base. Unlike in the past, there is now an interesting job offer on the table. That is why we are cautiously positive and hope that we will attract enough candidates with this recruitment strategy. The fact that Haren's prison is a new penitentiar concept and will be working with new profiles can be an important incentive factor on which we will be committed. Haren is a brand-new prison that uses the latest technologies, such as the badge, as opposed to the outdated infrastructure of the current prison. In addition, in Haren we also introduce a new concept for the execution of the sentence with two new functions, namely the security assistant and the detention supervisor. A thorough training course is provided for both functions. We hope that the position of detention counsellor will attract a different profile, in particular those who take social training courses at colleges or universities, i.e. those with a human or social degree who may now apply for the first time for the prison system. There is already a cooperation agreement with the VDAB which will ensure greater visibility for our job offers. Contacts have already taken place with Forem and Actiris. We are exploring the possibility of organizing information sessions for potential candidates in collaboration with these three partners. In addition, we are also trying to establish partnerships with schools. Thus, we have already contacted the Institut Saint Guidon in Anderlecht and the De Brug campus in Vilvoorde because these schools offer training in defence and security. Mr Aouasti, we will also contact the Regional School of Safety Professions and the schools offering care training in the third level of technical secondary education. Mrs Rohonyi, to answer your question about the nationality of prison staff, today other nationalities are already employed in our prisons. This is the case, among other things, for psychologists. The functions of prison officer and director are so far reserved for Belgians because they are functions of public authority. We will certainly take into account your suggestion and consider whether it is appropriate to amend the regulations on this point if it appears that the number of candidates is too small. To answer Mrs Hugon's question about early childhood places, these places are not really an opportunity for workers who work on breaks because their schedules are incompatible with those of the opening hours. For administrative staff, this offer could be potentially interesting. It could also be an added value for children living in prison. I was able to see that this already existed in Bruges. I come to the question No. 6.3 by Mrs Bury, No. Mr Aouasti and Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr Aouasti, Mr We are indeed working closely with Selor for the organisation of these selection procedures. With Selor we are currently examining to what extent we can extend the pilot project launched in the province of Antwerp in December and a great success to Haren. Within the current regulations, we will launch a shortened selection procedure for Haren. In concrete terms, this means that the first module, in particular pre-screening via a PC test, will not be organised and all competences will be tested immediately via a selection call. We hope that, thanks to this accelerated procedure, fewer candidates will drop out during the procedure. In addition, we are working together with the Minister of Civil Service to simplify the selection procedures. There are currently two KBs in the formal negotiation phase with the trade unions. A KB enables continuous recruitment for critical functions and high volume functions. For example, we should not wait until all the candidates were seen and the procedure is completely closed before the laureates can be contacted and the position offered. This will speed up the process. The other KB allows the functions within the prison to be contracted. It is not our intention to contract the post, but contractual recruitment is still much faster than statutory recruitment. The first selection procedures will be launched in March. This will allow the procedures to be aligned with the above events. The biggest challenge, both for the Selor and for my administration, is to organise the numerous recruitments in such a short time. In order to carry out this whole organization, we have already strengthened the services of the FPS Justice staff by some 15 selection officers. In addition, with the additional resources of the justice system, we have also planned seven people to strengthen the selor. Mr Boukili, it is true that the remaining winners on the statutory reserves were contacted. That makes a total of 301 people. They were offered a contract in a prison in Wallonia. They were assured that they would retain their place on the reserve lists so that they would eventually be eligible for a statutory appointment. The aim was to alleviate the pressure of change in the Brussels prison. Finally, only about ten people were interested in this proposal. The next chapter deals with existing staff and the change, with which I answer question No. 2.3 by Mrs Rohonyi and Questions Nos. 4.1 and 4.2 of the Committee president. I will not deny that the location of Haren's prison has an impact on the commute of our employees. The opening of Haren's prison is well prepared. Maximum account shall be taken of the operation by public transport. Currently, about 150 staff are waiting to be transferred to a prison closer to their home. We will recruit additional staff to allow these transfers. As mentioned above, we are recruiting approximately 270 new employees to expand the scope of approximately 110 full-time equivalents. The timing of such deployments will depend on the recruitment and training of new staff. In this context, we will always follow the order of application and approval. In the coming weeks and months, employees will be well informed about the new concept of execution, about the new functions and the conditions to make the transition to the prison of Haren. In this way they can make a well-founded choice and we will motivate them in substance. The transfer of the staff will be linked to the phased opening of the various entities and the transfer schedule of the detainees. These schemes are currently being worked out and fully aligned, but I cannot give more details on this at this stage. I now come to the questions of Mrs Rohonyi and Messrs. Aouasti and Boukili relating to the project of differentiation of function. The prison will be the prison of the future not only in terms of infrastructure, but also in terms of the execution of sentences. Haren Prison will be the pilot prison where two new functions will be introduced, as I have already said. The infrastructure of this prison lends itself perfectly to this. To make these two new functions possible, a royal decree was drafted and approved by the Council of Ministers on 17 December. This Royal Decree defines the new functions and determines the transitional measures for the current staff. The project will also involve field staff to ensure maximum alignment with the project. Formal negotiations on this draft decree are currently under way. The discussions take place in a constructive atmosphere. We hope to be able to conclude them by the end of the month. The Royal Decree is expected to be published by April at the latest. A training path based on the competency profiles of these new positions has been developed. This course consists of two parts: a common course of four months for the two functions followed by an individual course of two months for each function. The start of this training course will be coordinated with the selection procedures. We hope to be able to start the first class before the summer. Let me turn to the questions of Mrs Rohonyi and Messrs. Aouasti and Boukili relating to the personnel framework. The streamlined frameworks included in Protocol 464 serve as a basis for determining the framework of the Haren prison staff. In addition to the current Brussels prison framework, an extension of the framework of approximately 110 full-time equivalents is planned. The report of Haren's position as a security assistant and a detention escort was set at 40 and 60 per cent, respectively. This report was determined on the basis of the monitoring and observation tasks in the periphery in relation to the monitoring tasks in the housing units. While security assistants and detention attendants will be deployed to different locations and will perform different roles, they will be part of the same framework. Work in living units will, for example, be the traditional task of detention attendants, while large movements may be supervised by security assistants. As a result, no separate staff budget has been provided for these two functions. Long-term absences can be covered as part of ongoing service planning. In the event of unforeseen absence, it is verified locally how posts and staff can be reorganized and how services can be provided in the best possible way. In cases of absolute necessity, certain activities are suspended. The greatest care is taken to continue to guarantee services. Mrs Hugon, as far as the remuneration of staff is concerned, the question of trade unions is not new. I firmly believe in the intrinsic motivation. This means that we will first and foremost make the profession of prison officer more attractive in terms of content and offer better working conditions, such as modern infrastructure, better training, the provision of vacant posts. Today, unfortunately, these initiatives have had little success. Research has also shown that, for the new generation of employees, the content of work and working conditions play a more decisive role than remuneration. Then I come to the questions about the staff infrastructure, the President and Mrs Matz and Mrs Hugon. The number of parking spaces is in accordance with the regulations and has been approved by the competent authorities. Parking spaces are calculated according to the capacity of prisons. There are 324 parking spaces for staff, 20 places for bicycles and 20 places for motorcycles. For visitors there are 152 parking spaces, 40 places for bicycles and motorcycles. There are currently no places for steppes, but that will be resolved. In addition, the city of Brussels and the Brussels Rand are very well accessible by public transport. There are three train stations, which I mentioned earlier. I have already replied in connection with continuous visits. With regard to staff mobility, a short survey was carried out in October. On the basis of the responses received, we are taking initiatives and gradually launching procedures to set up a useful shuttle system between one or more stations and Haren prison. The aim is to allow staff to organise their journeys to the best possible extent, to increase the number of routes possible, including the use of nearby stations, to limit the length of journeys and to encourage travel by public transport. It is impossible for us to give you more concrete information because the project is still in the process of being implemented. Then I come to the questions raised by the various speakers on the use of the Chambers. The insertion of courtrooms was developed according to the standards used by the judicial organisation for other courtrooms in courthouses. These rooms are located next to the prison and not inside the prison. Mr Geens, like you, I am in favour of this very practical solution. I am aware that there is resistance at the magistrate's office to sit in these courtrooms. In Haren these halls are located next to and not in prison. As a result, the situation is somewhat different from that in other prisons. Given the insertion of the courtroom, there is no problem in continuing court hearings. There is a separate entrance giving access to a separate complex, in accordance with the standards of the judicial order, so that all hearings can take place in objectivity and neutrality. There is therefore no obstacle to infrastructure. We have already consulted a number of actors in the judiciary. The initial reactions are moderately positive with regard to the holding of hearings in the Haren Courthouse. The organization of hearings in Haren has many advantages. We avoid a very large part of the exits to Poelaert Square. Although these are only the sentencing court and board hearings, there are enormous benefits in terms of time savings, costs and security. The journey to be made between Haren's prison and the Poulaertplein has regular traffic problems. Organising hearings in Haren avoids the risk that prisoners will not get to the Palace of Justice in time. Thus, sessions can also follow each other smoothly. As for the staff, a navette for the magistrate from Poelaert to Haren is being examined. Madam President, so far my answer, a little long, for which I apologize, but I believe that specific questions also need to be answered in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There were indeed a lot of questions put. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u19	Madam President, I will do my best to reply in time, as far as possible, with regard to the length – and I thank him for this – of the Minister's response. First of all, I wanted to go back to the big practical problem of recruiting staff. Because it is beautiful, as you say, to bring out a prison of the future, a new type of prison, with new profiles among prison officers: traffic agents, prison attendants. Except that all this beautiful world, we're going to have to recruit him, but we're going to have to train him as well. All this will take time, a lot of time. That is why I have serious doubts about the dates of September 2022 as the date of the beginning of the transfer of prisoners, and therefore the beginning of the work of the new prison officers, and the end of June 2023. Especially in the light of several elements. First, the legitimate fears of the unions about your draft royal decree on the status of agents. They forced you to review your copy. Secondly – and you have confirmed it – the lack of planning for the recruitment and transfer of officers from Brussels prisons and for the transfer of detainees from these same prisons. You tell us, as usual – and the Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, whom I had interviewed, goes in the same direction – that there will be several phases, you tell us "we're planning on 9 months". But you will agree that this is an extremely vague answer, which therefore shows that there is no strategy in the head of government, which shows that you will really be ready for, at least, June 2023. I am therefore extremely concerned, Minister, about this. And then there is also the fact that a shortage of prison officers is finally observed for all of our prisons, which is also compounded by the absenteeism of the officers. I therefore hope that when you announce a number of full-time equivalents for the new prison officers, you will take into account this absenteeism. All the more so since, we know, and it is the unions that say it – they are still well placed to say it – the candidates do not push themselves. It is not enough to call for recruitment. You are organising jobs days in partnership with the city of Brussels, and I thank you for that. But the candidates don't rush, as I said. This is why, in particular, the unions propose the implementation of incentives, like the premiums that exist to ensure that Brussels police officers remain in Brussels. Why not layer on such a model? I would like to suggest that you explore this as part of your discussions with the unions, as you have confirmed earlier that you are conducting discussions with them. I thank you for your open mind with regard to starting a reflection on the possibility, for people who do not have Belgian nationality, of applying for leadership positions, as long as they present all the skills to occupy them. I also want to bounce back on the classification of inmates. This would help to determine whether an inmate can benefit from an open, semi-open or closed regime or determine reintegration work. In your opinion, this classification would be determined by a series of criteria, including the well-known individual detention plan that has been discussed since the publication of the Law of Principles in 2005. However, the articles dealing with this individual detention plan – Articles 38 and 39 – have still not entered into force: we are still awaiting the royal decree of execution. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, to implement them. These detention plans must be put into practice, but enforcement orders are required to do so. As far as women are concerned, I thank you for the figures you mentioned. There were many of them, I hope that nous will be able to dispose of them in writing. I hear that the theoretical capacity for mothers with children has increased compared to the Berkendael prison. However, this is not the case for open spaces. It is a shame, in view of this prison of the future which you present as such, and especially since the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture has repeatedly recalled that women are characterized by particular vulnerabilities and needs that differ from those of men. It is a bit easy, at the bottom, to say that a closed section is not really closed because it is conceived as open: either it is an open section or a closed section, and you have to take on this choice. I will conclude with the subject of mobility. You tell us that the project as designed in Haren does not pose any mobility problems. Forgive me, but for having discussed this at length with associations, bar associations, judges and residents, I can see that, yes, there are serious mobility problems. It is enough to see how the boulevard de la Woluwe or the Ring – in short, the road that connects the Palais de Justice in Brussels and the Haren prison – are still bottled. As far as public transport is concerned, there is one train per hour. Then you have to walk and take the bus. It is therefore really problematic for visits by lawyers, families and moral advisers, but also from the point of view of transfers to the Palace of Justice. You tell us that an agreement has been reached with the Security Directorate to limit them to the maximum. What does that mean in practice? What does this agreement contain? What method should be followed, except by limiting the hearings or organizing them in the courtrooms that have been provided for in the prison? I am concerned about this, particularly in view of the legitimate fears that have been expressed several times by the bars in terms of respect for the rights of the defence. I sincerely hope, minister, that you will be attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I'll read it again, because it contains a lot of information. It is wonderful that you have worked so hard on this and that the staff of your cabinet and the administration have spent so much time in it. After all, there were a lot of questions. I have received an answer to most of the questions, and I have also noted that you are extending the personnel department, including Selor, for that royal decision. That's gonna be a huge job, but you calculated it. There is, however, a question in which I remain somewhat hungry, but I will read your answer and, if necessary, submit a written question concerning the open and closed regime for women. You have given the figure of 35 places in the closed regime, of which 10 children are also welcome. Most of the new prison village is now open regime. Of the 490 women from all the prisons we'd send there, you think there'd be a lot in the open regime. That's not a grade. Much is not concrete enough for me to decide whether some of them will not fit into that open regime at all. There are very few places in the closed regime. So isn't the closed regime too tight? The female gender would be less aggressive. I belong to that too, so that is certainly a compliment, but we have to assume that some of them are dangerous and do not belong in an open regime. You said that a multidisciplinary team will investigate whether they are capable of operating in an open regime and that they are not simply placed in it. However, I fear that there are not enough places in the closed regime. I did not receive an answer to that question, but I will read your answer and perhaps question you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u21	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for this marathon of answers. I would also like to thank, through you, your employees and the administration for the amount of information you have been able to provide us in such a limited time. I will also try to go through the report carefully in order to take full account of all the answers. It is no secret to anyone that my group and my party were initially not in favour of this Haren project, for many reasons (financial, transparency, tax behaviour – boxes that make up the consortium – linked to geographical objections in terms of biodiversity protection, mobility and so on). Anyway, I'm not going to epilogue on this. The choice is made. As it stands, there are also advantages to a project that can be imagined from nothing. The idea of moving away from panoptic architecture to smaller-scale units, which bring together a few dozen inmates, with a desire to maintain a visual link with the outer space, to have a little sight, nose to nature, is all very positive. The issue of women presents particular challenges, because there are specific needs, but I think they are still very poorly known, or even invisibility due to the low number of female inmates. It is important to be at the same time attentive to these specific needs without falling into a sensitisation or clichés that would lock these women in certain roles: mother-woman, household work which are little in the way of subsequent reintegration facilities. That is why I was asking you about the possibility of welcoming children during the day, which would help both mothers and children. Briefly, on the menstrual protections – we have already had an opportunity to have an exchange on this – according to the returns in my possession, the protections provided are not adequate and the budget necessary to improve this in the interest of the dignity of menstruated people would be really very weak. Again, I encourage you to think about it. The recruitment of agents is a big challenge and it is linked to the accessibility of the site, you recalled. I hear well and it is to your honour that you want to make Haren's work and jobs intrinsically attractive. I encourage you to continue on this path. However, there is no shame in committing financial incentives if the rest is not sufficient, taking into account the fact that the location is out of hand and constitutes a disadvantage for the agents. We could therefore look at forms of compensation, including financial compensation. With regard to early childhood care, I thank you for your openness. I note that this is not an opportunity for agents because of the schedules. It is known that there are some nurseries, such as those for hospital staff, which can adapt to more atypical schedules. It is worth considering if the demand is sufficient. It might be possible to open crèches on non-standard working hours that could meet the schedules of some staff members in addition to those of administrative staff. The question of windows that don't open was one of my questions. I will not discipline you in view of the number of questions I have asked. I'm surprised by the answer to the question that prisoners should not throw rubbish out the window. I'll take note of that. In conclusion, I am not sure if I have received a reply concerning the decoration of the cells, on the fact that puzzling something on the wall could be considered degradation that would then be charged under the PPP contracts. If you answer it now, I'll go back to it on a future occasion. Again, thank you for all your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u22	Minister, thank you for the time devoted not only to the reading of the answers you have given but also to the preparation time of yourself and your cabinet and administration teams in order to give a comprehensive view of this important issue in Haren Prison. I will be brief enough because I think you have answered most of the questions amply. This new project of another detention in a new building and adapted to this other detention is obviously something that goes in the right direction. I have two reservations about the answers you have given. Maybe I'll have to read the report again. The first obviously concerns mobility. The problem is not solved and solutions will obviously have to be found, in particular to reach the Courthouse without being in traffic because of the waste of time that this causes. The second reserve relates to the recruitment of staff. It is known that this is an everyday challenge, including in existing institutions. And this is necessarily linked to the question of mobility, because it is a question of whether future accompanying agents will be able to move to the place of the prison. These two challenges must be permanent and constant. Solutions must be found not only for the attractiveness of these functions but also for alternative solutions for mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u23	Mr Minister, first of all, please excuse me, because I had to teleroute to the Committee on the Constitution and Institutional Renewal, in which another debate was taking place. However, I have listened to you, at least partially. I also wanted to thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. In any case, it has been as complete as possible. We are discussing a prison under construction, recruitment of prison officers, etc. Therefore, no one can ask you to bring all the answers today. Nevertheless, the importance of this file appears. Similarly, the seriousness with which you engage with your firm is evident. Already, thanks to you, to them and to them. It's very important. Are all fears calmed? No, and that's normal! Indeed, we are still in a construction site, in every sense of the word. For those parts of your answer that I have not heard, I will take the time to reread the full report. If necessary, I'll come back before you. In any case, I thank you again for your investment, the completeness of your responses and the time you have devoted to them. Thank you also for this initiative that comes from you and your services. This current affairs debate was prompted by the opportunity given to us by your department to visit this prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u24	Mr Boukili is stuck in another committee. Mr Geens also thanked you for your answers, but he has already left our meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u25	Madam President, there was still a question by Mrs Hugon about the decoration of the cells. The decoration will be possible because in each cell there are tables that allow to paste phots, posters or calendars.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u26	Minister, I'm aware of that. My question was about the possibility of decorating beyond these panels that are specifically dedicated to them. I wanted to know if it was possible to extend a little more on the rest of the walls of the cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u27	I'm told it's not possible, at the risk of damaging the walls. It is therefore requested to be limited to the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u28	I think that we can end the topical and urgent debate and proceed to our ordinary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u29	Mr Boukili has asked his questions. 55024283C, 55024476C, 55024494C and 55024496C to be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u30	Madam President, I would just like to say a few words about the good work that has been done. Members may submit questions until Tuesday 11 a.m. I note that some Members systematically submit questions just before 11 a.m. The next day, on Wednesday, they just don't show up. Then, the following week, they have their questions converted into written questions. For my organization, for the parquet and for the administration, that's unexploited work. I get complaints from the Attorney General and the College of Attorney General that this is no longer acceptable. You should know that certain parquets simply fall silent because they have to answer questions like this at large.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u31	I had already planned to put the matter to a meeting. However, in a round of questions not every Member is present so that not everyone would hear it. Of course, everyone has the right to submit questions until 11:00. However, it is true that, if there is the possibility to submit questions earlier, it would be good to be there when the questions are actually on the agenda. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u32	The amount of questions we get is no longer possible. I'm not talking about me personally. I want to answer everything. However, I must also give the people on the ground a chance to work in a serious way. A certain way of working is no longer possible. I can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u33	Minister, I understand that, of course. That is also why I will once again draw attention to this at the start of the committee meeting when everyone is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I can only welcome you making such a comment. It is always the same Members who simply submit questions, often copies of questions that other Members have already asked. This weekend we have worked on our questions. Most members do so in good time, just to give you plenty of time. Other members do so quickly and last minute. They won't even show up. That doesn't give a pass. However, that should be a matter for the Conference of Presidents, not only that they are late in submitting questions and not showing up, but also that they are fully copying questions. I assume that we will take the problem to another meeting, but in fact the problem is much more extensive than just in the Committee on Justice. It's a lot of shit everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u35	Perhaps you can tell your group leader, who can always raise that point at the Conference of Presidents. We can now continue with the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u36	Madam President, Minister, last June I asked you about the vagueness surrounding the subsidy granted to the association of victims of the Brussels V-Europe attacks as part of a coaching project. At that time, an amount of EUR 300 000 was announced, without even communicating the criteria for the allocation of this subsidy. This prompted us to table, with my colleague Boukili in particular, a motion that was rejected by Vivaldi, which did not seem to be disturbed by this lack of transparency. A royal decree was issued on 16 December and states that a grant of EUR 200 000 has been granted to this association in order to develop an initiative for victims of terrorist attacks so that they can be accompanied in their multiple steps and procedures with the various authorities. In view of this objective, this subsidy is particularly surprising when we know that another international association, Life4Brussels, has been carrying out this process of accompaniment to victims on a daily basis for several years as specified in the Royal Decree. Despite a cruel shortage of subsidies, this other association also organizes legal permanences. As a result, she informed hundreds of victims of their rights and brought them to justice at the criminal level. Minister, what are the criteria for allocating the subsidy that have been used to favour one victim association rather than another? Was a detailed opinion drawn up by your firm when this subsidy was granted? Can we have access to these documents? Furthermore, the only obligation which the V-Europe association seems to have to comply with is to keep the documents and accounts available to officials in charge of the control of subsidies, as well as a performance report to be submitted by 1 March 2022. Therefore, could you communicate the V-Europe coaching project concerning not only the training process and the skills of coaches, but also the number of victims who will be supported during the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u37	Madam President, Minister, on 16 December, a royal decree was issued to grant a grant to ISBL to assist victims of V-Europe terrorism, for a coaching project. We can read that the association will receive the sum of 200 000 euros. In March 2021, it was through the press that we learned of the existence of this future grant for a coaching project. We were not talking about 200 000 euros, we were talking about 300 000 euros! In the royal decree issued at the end of the year, there is not much detail. We do not learn how many victims will be coached, nor the training of those who will have to accompany these victims. However, I had already drawn your attention to the vagueness surrounding this project in the Justice Committee at the beginning of June last year. In February 2020, your colleague Maggie De Block was much more cautious than you and pointed out, for the sake of fairness, that other victim support organisations should be able to introduce a case. Mr Minister, why was this EUR 300 000 subsidy reduced to EUR 200 000 at the end of 2021? How many victims of the attacks will be covered by this programme? Can you tell us how many victims have shown interest in this project? The Royal Decree speaks of practical, moral, legal and administrative support. Can you tell us more about the training of the two coaches hired by V-Europe who will have to accompany these victims? Will a specification be provided for the implementation of the project? Will transparency be respected with regard to the implementation report to be drawn up by the association by 1 March 2022, in accordance with Article 5 of the Royal Decree? Will we have access to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been regularly asked about the subject in recent months. How did this joint coach project come into being? Why did we entrust this project? What exactly do the victim coaches do? Over the past few months, coaches have been selected and have received in-depth training. Meanwhile, they're at work. As you know, they are there for all victims of terrorism. The administrative procedures and operating rules are in fact laid down in the Royal Decree of 7 November 2021 which you correctly quote. The obligation to which ISBL V-Europe must comply is to keep the documents and accounts at the disposal of the officials in charge of the control of subsidies, as well as an implementation report to be filed by 1 March 2022. Subsidiable costs are clearly defined in Article 4 of the Royal Decree. As already stated, a report on the activities will be sent; we will get an initial vision of the activities as of March 1st. The subsidy was not reduced at the end of the year. However, it was allocated through appropriations from the interdepartmental provision. The amount of the subsidy was thus reduced to EUR 200 000 for the year 2021, taking into account that these appropriations were not paid into my department's budget until early July 2021. Clearly, the subsidy will be EUR 300 000 for the year 2022. See the Basic Allowance 12.62.44.33.00.01 in the General Estimates of Justice. The subsidy for 2021 does not cover the full year, which is why this amount is lower. V-Europe has 300 members. In addition, the association has made a brochure to make its offer more widely known. This brochure will soon be sent to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence, so that they can distribute it to other victims of terrorist attacks. This method was chosen to best respect the privacy of victims. For the time being, interviews are already under way with 50 victims. Recruitment was organised by an external consultant, Dr. Sigal Haimov, not only for qualitative reasons but also to ensure transparency and exclude any risk of being accused of conflict of interest. The training took place from 16 November to 21 December inclusive, each time from Monday to Friday. The whole training took place in accordance with the health rules imposed in the context of the fight against covid. This was an intensive training led by Dr Haimov assisted by other people with acquired expertise in this area. During the training, external speakers also spoke about their experience and expertise. They were victims of the administration, people from the region and academia. The training obviously pays great attention to the moral and psychosocial aspects, but the legal and administrative aspects have also received a great deal of attention. For this, V-Europe has used its long-standing expertise. It has established good contacts so that the various experts (lawyers, the Federal Pension Service, the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence and Casual Rescuers) can share their expertise during the training. Because of the situation related to covid-19, all these aspects have not yet been addressed, but this will be done very soon. V-Europe chose the trainer based on his expertise. The offer of trainers specialized in this field is not very broad. As foreseen in the Royal Decree, an implementation report will be prepared by 1 March. We will examine the information that can be transmitted. We have always ensured that the privacy of victims is guaranteed in the best possible way. Colleagues, I note that many questions are constantly coming up about this project. In this context, the Director of V-Europe, Mr Philippe Vansteenkiste, is fully prepared to start discussions with you and answer all your questions. You can get his contact information from my strategic cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. If you're tired of hearing us always asking the same questions, we're tired of having to rest them. If we do this, it is because the answers you have provided so far are absolutely unsatisfactory, especially in view of the fact that your government prefers to subsidize one association, to the total exclusion of another. Not to mention that victim support must initially be provided by your government. We are faced with a royal decree that tends to normalize a situation that is not, namely that associations must compensate for the government's failure to comply with missions that are also highlighted by the commission of inquiry into the attacks. As far as coaches are concerned, those who are at work, according to you, were trained from 16 November to 21 December. It was an intensive training of which one does not really know the content. Nevertheless, the people within the association that has been completely set aside are also trained, and have an expertise that has been put to the benefit of the victims for many years. In fact, the government prefers to spend money on training people, removing people who are trained and who have done so on their own money, without ever asking the government for anything. It's pretty amazing! Then you say that these coaches are at work for the benefit of all the victims. This is incorrect since, unfortunately, there are two associations of victims, and these victims have traditionally referred to each other and not to the other. You cannot therefore say that all victims will be able to benefit from this project. In fact, you never asked yourself whether this project met the needs of the victims. I asked you if there was a list of the victims who had expressed their interest, their need to be followed by a coach, or in all, I asked you about the exact number of victims. This transparency has not yet been achieved, although it would have been particularly useful. All the more so as we know that in December 2019, V-Europe had already asked the government – it wasn't yours at the time – for a subsidy of 300 000 euros (exactly the same amount) for a completely different project, which consisted of a partnership with Israeli experts in post-traumatic care. At the time, Minister De Block had considered that a scrupulous analysis was necessary, given the height of this amount. It required a specification, compliance with the rules governing the granting of subsidies, etc., but also fairness between associations. It is very curious, Minister, to see that while none of these requirements have been met today, this subsidy has been granted to the total exclusion of another association that has been doing remarkable work for the benefit of the victims for years and years, I would like to remind you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I fully agree with what my colleague has just said. I understand you're tired of our questions, minister. I'm tired of asking you these questions, too. But the ones who are most tired are the victims who do not have correct answers from you. The starting point for these questions is the failure of the State to take responsibility for the victims. They had to organize themselves into associations to fill the loopholes of the State. And instead of making a self-criticism at this level, you come with another project, which does not at all meet the expectations of the victims. How many victims have expressed interest in this project? You did not answer this question when a survey of victims was conducted where the vast majority – 95% of victims – found no use in this coaching project. That was not what they needed. What the victims are asking you is to respect the recommendations of the Attentats Commission. Even that, you do not put it in place while normally it is a duty as a representative of the Department of Justice to implement these recommendations of the Attentats Commission. Why don't you do it? A commission had been set up and had made recommendations. The victims agree with these recommendations. They claim them and you don't put them in place. If you really want to meet the needs of the victims, start with that first! There, you come with a project that does not meet the needs of the victims. You do it with an association without giving a euro of subsidy to the other association, which represents far more victims than the association you have chosen, and you find it normal! You are tired of our questions, but as long as this injustice remains, we will ask questions. You do not meet the needs of victims and discriminate between associations. What is the purpose of all this? To say that you are doing something for the victims with these 300 000 euros so that it can be found in the statistics, even if it does not match their demand? That is not your role, Minister! Your role is to respond to the structural problems of our society. Why are these victims being dumped to associations that fill the state's bankruptcy? You do not even question your policy at this level. You're sending us back to someone. I would like to talk to her for more information, but that will not stop me from coming back to you to ask questions, minister. Until the problem is resolved, the issues will remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament 55024579C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u42	Minister, shoplifting remains a major problem. Unfortunately, the number of cases has not decreased in recent years. In addition, it appears that shopkeepers often do not want to press charges because they feel that no action is being taken. It is estimated that only 10% of the identified thefts are reported. I do not need to convince you that the financial consequences for the shopkeepers, who are already struggling today, are considerable. A European study shows that the losses from shoplifting in our country amount to almost EUR 1 billion, a very large amount. You have announced that you intend to intervene with lick-on fines, allowing the police to impose a fine on the offender immediately. I can only welcome that. The police could therefore impose a fine of EUR 350 on a adult shoplifter who is caught, which can be paid immediately or within 15 days by bank transfer. If that does not happen, there will be a friendly settlement. If it isn't paid, the shoplifter will be subpoenaed in court. That is how we have been informed in the media. Could you give us a little more explanation and clarification on this? You have announced that fines can be imposed up to EUR 350. How will the amount of the lick-on fine be fixed? Are there any guidelines in this respect? How will the police be supported to pay particular attention to this? Has this been discussed with the Minister of the Interior? Will there also be additional support from the Home Office to address this serious problem? Particularly important here is the follow-up of repeated incidents, given the seriousness of the problem. The parquets should be supported in order to keep track of the minutes, in order to identify who is repeatedly arrested for shoplifting. What will happen in the event of recidivism? In the event of recidivism, will shoplifters be given the opportunity to settle the case with the payment of a fine, or will they automatically be subpoenaed before the court in the event of recidivism? Will you take initiatives to encourage shopkeepers to always report after shoplifting, in other words, initiatives to boost the willingness to report? In many cases, shoplifting also involves minors. Initiatives must be taken to tackle this problem, although I know that this is within the competence of your Flemish colleague. Has there been any discussion on the matter? Will you encourage your colleagues at Community level to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u43	Mr Minister, I have tabled a question on the same subject and questions along the same lines, so I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u44	Mrs Dillen, as from 1 January of this year, the Justice Department has launched the lick-on fines for certain simple forms of small crime whose culprit is easy to identify, such as bicycle theft. This creates the possibility to apply the immediate friendly solution that already exists today nationally. For this purpose, the existing system was analysed in cooperation with several partners, of course the police and the prosecutor's office. The most efficient way to organise its processing was sought. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, you say that this says a lot about the state of persecution policy in Belgium. For certain facts, it is better to work in this way and not systematically go to court. If we were still going to court for all traffic offences, we just can't solve the problem. You're not against gas fines either. Certain facts are best handled in this way, so that justice can deal with the serious forms of crime that have much more impact. After the analysis, payment options, IT systems and determination booklets were created. The administrative workload was reduced to a minimum. It's still on paper right now. In the long term, however, it will be allowed for the police to immediately digitalize these types of CVs. Then there must also be digital signature by the suspect involved. At the moment, such an application does not exist. We also tested this system. In fact, we have organised pilot projects in different areas before this is foreseen at national level. The police and the judiciary were involved and the services were satisfied. The system shall be introduced throughout the territory. It is a concept that must prevent the feeling of impunity among perpetrators and victims. Of course, we respect the rights of the defence at every step. The system is only applied if the perpetrator agrees. If he doesn't agree to it, a report will be made and the case will be brought before the court. In any case, it is a clear signal that the justice system also takes these matters seriously and wants to punish them quickly and decisively. One consequence of this approach is that the courts can deal with more complex cases and cases that are disputed. The circular of the College of Attorneys General of 23 December 2021, COL 09/2021, concerning the extension of the amicable settlement procedure, Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, sets out these new provisions in full. If the offender agrees, a choice can be made between the payment methods, either via a payment system, i.e. Bancontact, which the police have with them, or with a QR code, which you also know of the traffic fines. In the future, the JustPay application will be chosen, which will allow the QR code to be generated digitally. A transfer can still be made if you do not have a mobile phone or do not want to pay in that way. If the offender does not agree and therefore does not pay immediately or within 15 days, Crossborder will send a payment claim, a friendly settlement. No further follow-up is expected from the police. If the offender does not pay within the time limit, the court will be responsible for the further handling. Among other things, the parish of West Flanders has already said that it will systematically subpoena if one does not pay. Mrs Dillen, the COL states that the fine varies from EUR 50 to EUR 350 depending on the value of the stolen property. As far as your third question is concerned, consultations have indeed taken place. The system was developed in consultation with local and federal police. They were thus involved in the formatting of the enforcement process. As for COVID-19, there will be intelligent fixing booklets that contain the QR code. It is precisely those books that should minimise the workload of the police and the judiciary. Currently, my IT service is working with the police IT service to see if we can digitize that so that the flow of information between police and justice in this area can be improved. Mr Dillen's fourth question and the President's first two questions on recidivism are very interesting and justified questions. The advantage of the system that we are now introducing is that it gives us a national overview of previous facts. If a person commits a shoplifting in city X and in city Y, we will see it, while one cannot see it in the GAS fines, the municipal administrative sanctions, because every GAS system is kept locally. If the police check a shoplifter in police zone X, she will immediately see that that person ran into the light a year earlier in police zone Y. That's one of the strengths of the Crossborder system. When it comes to recidivists, action must be taken in accordance with the guidelines of the King's Attorney. He can say, for example, that if someone is caught three times there will be no immediate inning but a subpoena before the court. We also want to move towards a better policy in the area of recidivism. We are finalizing a draft letter to facilitate the handling of repeated cases. Following a certain number of acts, which form part of a defined list of offences committed within a certain period of time and which have been punished with immediate recovery, it is intended to inform the public prosecutor directly of any new act committed in order to make it possible to take stricter action. This means that the case may be brought before a court of law. We'll see about that. The COL is in full preparation. In concrete terms, this means that a recidivist who thinks he can get away by always paying the fine after which he is left alone will not get any more in the future. This is being worked on, both technically and technically, as the Public Prosecutor's Office needs to be informed as well as regulatoryly. That's why I sent you the letter. As regards Mrs Dillen's fifth question, we have of course had contact with Comeos, UCM and Unizo. They are very enthusiastic about this initiative. I remember Unizo asking me first to do something about shoplifting and install a lick-on-piece policy when I came to Parliament in 1999. After 23 years, that finally becomes a reality. It is important that shopkeepers file a report so that the police and the judiciary can follow up this infringement properly. As far as your question on minors is concerned, it is clear in the COL that a report must be drawn up immediately for under-age suspects and delivered to the competent court. The approach is different there and also falls within the competence of the Communities. It's out of the question to impose the payment of a lick-on ticket on them. As regards the President's third question, the friendly settlement is indeed not included in the criminal record. However, that information is available to the King's Attorney who is sitting in the correctional court. It's up to him or her to inform the court. I note that the concept of repetition is clearly misinterpreted in your question. In a criminological sense, repeated crime is indeed a repetition of criminal offences, but the draft letter I mentioned is intended to address the problem. On the other hand, criminal recidivism is based solely on criminal convictions by judges. They'll be entered in the criminal record. As regards your fourth and fifth questions, it is clear in the COL that it will only be applied if the person concerned acknowledges the facts and accepts the payment. The perpetrator's personal situation may be a counter-indication of the effectiveness of a lick-on-piece fine, if it is clear that it will not be paid. In that case, the notice will be sent to the court which will then decide what action should be taken. The lick-on-piece fines aren't meant to help the unsub, it's a punishment that's meant to scare off. When the unsub repeats the facts, it is clear that the increase in the number of lick-on-piece fines will have no effect on his or her delinquent behavior. This is precisely the purpose of the draft circular on the handling of repeated offences, in particular stricter or at least more adapted measures when the offender repeats a set of specific facts within a given period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u45	So, Minister, if no payment is made, the intention is to go to court. You have apparently already been promised by the province of West Flanders that this will happen automatically. I hope that the other provinces will follow, because that is, of course, very important, especially in order to reduce the feeling of impunity. You announce a draft of a return letter to deal with repeated cases. When can we expect that? Relapse calls for particular attention. I therefore hope that you will be able to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u46	Madam President, Minister, it is of course a good thing to try to prevent impunity. I do wonder whether this system is sufficiently deterrent, since the fine is EUR 300 to 350 and the value of a bicycle, for example, can be up to EUR 2000 or more. Besides, I'm worried about the fact that this isn't gonna be on the criminal record. What if there's a repeat? You say that there is a debrief coming with which you want to address this problem, because the data will still be in the General National Data Bank. I hope that this regulation will come soon and that it will be effectively implemented, because it cannot be so easy to get rid of it, that a fine is paid over and over again without feeling effective that there has actually been a theft of matters of some value.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u47	Mr Minister, Brussels is the scene of numerous events both as a national capital and as the seat of the main European institutions. On Sunday, 23 January, the whole world saw demonstrators beat the road in the streets of Brussels to express their fundamental right to express their opinion. I do not dispute here the arguments about health restrictions, nor will I enter into the debate on the obligation to vaccinate. As a member of the Reform Movement, I want much more than anyone, perhaps, to preserve the free will of everyone and the principle of responsibility of all individuals. I am here to speak of the umpteenth group of energists who manifest themselves on the occasion of these great peaceful gatherings. I'm talking about a band because it's always a minority that decredibles a peacefully expressed opinion. As many witnesses have reported, these people are reporting violence, mainly against our police forces, which are on the front line to ensure that everything goes smoothly. It is often the same breakers, who are known to the police and the justice system, who work on these occasions. It is certain that our police officers were the privileged targets of the most virulent of the breakers. We have all seen these shocking images, worthy of an urban battle in a rule of law – until proven otherwise – rather than a law enforcement operation in the capital of Europe. By 23 January alone, there were 23 new judicial arrests and 228 administrative arrests. Further arrests will take place when more violent people have been identified by the investigators in charge of the case. The deliberate and premeditated violence perpetrated by all these small gangs is unspeakable and reprehensible. They ravage the property of individuals and common property. Any destruction they cause further damage to the image of our country. This violence undermines both the right to demonstrate, to which, as you have understood, we hold a great deal, and which is the backbone of our rule of law, as well as the forces of law, which are its shields, because they act in a completely democratic framework and are very necessary when we see what we see. Minister, you have announced that these people will be subject to systematic prosecution. When it comes to respect for the law and order, no tolerance can be allowed. Given the time required for the gathering of evidence, can you assure us that the action of the prosecutor's office will neither dilute nor stir up in time? At the present time, what assessment does the Public Prosecutor's Office make of the situation? Given the profile of some "agitators", is there coordination between the Sûreté and the police in order to identify those who risk turning a demonstration into a breaker fair whenever people express their opinion on the streets of our capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u48	Mr Minister, after the last corona demonstration, rioters went through the streets of Brussels. Sunday was much better, but we return to the Sunday before. That's when 35 police officers got hurt. Three of them even had to be transferred to the hospital, but luckily they were allowed to return home the same day. We're lucky they were wearing protective suits and helmets. One may wonder how it would end if this were not the case, while a couple of madmen beguiled them with nadar fences and stones. Our party is in favour of zero tolerance for violence against aid workers. You have always said in the past that you are in favour of this. In response to a question I raised at the plenary session on 23 September, you referred to the re-working of the letter, which further strengthened the procedure for violence against the police. Minister Verlinden also confirmed in the Committee on the Interior that a total of 240 people were arrested after the Sunday demonstration. During the seven previous demonstrations, a total of 750 people were arrested. We now hear from the Brussels parquet that a total of 91 investigations have been opened into persons involved in the riots following one of the corona demonstrations. That is, of course, only a matter of urgency in comparison with the large number of arrests. The police unions are therefore quite right to react frustrated and blame you and the public prosecutor for a lack of decisiveness. There is absolutely no question of impunity in these cases, which you yourself have confirmed several times. That is why I would like to ask you three specific questions. How will you ensure that as many of the perpetrators of the riots and the violence against the police are identified and punished? Can you guarantee that the zero tolerance for violence against aid workers will also be applied in the context of the corona manifestation? Can you give an indication of the number of perpetrators of violence against the police in the margins of the protests that are still being detected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can guarantee that if there is sufficient evidence against a suspect for acts of serious violence against the police, that suspect will also be prosecuted, in application of COL 10/2017. However, you should know that merely an administrative arrest as a basis is not sufficient to bring individuals to justice. In our rule of law, evidence is needed. Finding that evidence is easier said than done, because the police have their hands full with law enforcement and security, knowing that the rioters operate in gangs and masks. The police services collect and compare a maximum of evidence against perpetrators of such acts of violence. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office is committed to carrying out a judicial action every time an offender is identified and the file provides sufficient evidence. The court has assured me that any case of violence in the context of that manifestation will be the subject of judicial action. In fact, the Chief Constable of Brussels confirmed at the press conference that the COL is being applied effectively and is working well. The aim is to identify a maximum number of perpetrators by comparing all the footage. It is too early to make a statement on this at this stage, as this analysis is in full swing. In particular, hundreds of hours of imagery should be analysed. The perpetrators must be sufficiently clear with the face in view, and then identified and identified. Tracking messages via the media can follow, which has already happened after previous riots, with about thirty photographs being sent to the world on a very broad basis with the demand to identify the persons in question. So the parquet works on that seriously and thoroughly. Mrs Marghem, violence against the police cannot be tolerated under any pretext and is a priority for the government and the prosecution. To address this phenomenon, clear guidelines on prosecution policy have been issued by the College. You know that the directives were strengthened at the end of 2020, at my explicit request. It is true that the criminal investigation which is carried out in a second stage, following the criminal acts committed during the demonstrations, involves work that is in keeping with the duration. However, as soon as there is evidence to identify the perpetrators and to charge them with criminally reprehensible acts, the Prosecutor's Office undertakes to give a judicial response as soon as possible. The files are centralized with a magistrate of the competent section who works closely with the competent police services. As I have already had the opportunity to say, the demonstration on 23 January resulted in eleven judicial arrests, including eight adults and three minors. Two minors were brought before a juvenile judge and placed in a public youth welfare institution. The third minor was released after his hearing by the police. The criminal investigation is under way. A major was placed at the disposal of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and was presented with a summons to the criminal court for acts of armed rebellion and the carrying of illegal weapons. He will appear before the Brussels Correctional Court on 17 February. Seven majors were released on the day of the events after their hearing. The investigation of these suspects is ongoing. If elements of the case permit, legal action will follow as soon as possible. Let me turn to your second question. State Security is working on extremist groups that infiltrate demonstrations and use them for their own purposes. As part of this follow-up on extremist groups, the State Security Service communicates in notes with the police and with OCAM, both before the demonstrations to announce what the State Security Service has identified, and after the demonstration to communicate the findings made. In addition, the police regularly communicate lists of persons arrested during a demonstration in which there is a risk of infiltration by extremist movements. The State Security verifies that these persons are known within the framework of its competence and, if necessary, transmits the information in its possession to the partners in charge of the strategy of terrorism, extremism and radicalism - the former R plan - of which the police is one of the basic partners. In addition, the Federal Police systematically provides for its own monitoring of demonstrations on the basis of its powers in matters of public order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u50	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his very comprehensive reply and up to date. It clearly shows that there is activity, and that there is an ongoing activity at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office and at the level of State Security as well. I will come back to you later to see what is the evolution of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u51	What Mrs Marghem says is absolutely correct. We'll see there's follow-up. The images on television showed a lot of violence. It is important that the people we saw commit violence are identified so that they can be prosecuted. We're gonna have to step up. Perhaps you could ask your cabinet to do the same here, because there was an enormous amount of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u52	Minister, almost a year ago the GAS 5 system entered into force and since then a number of municipalities have taken steps to punish small speeding offences on their territory with administrative penalties. This recently caused a lot of commotion, when it appeared that some municipalities wanted to go for this with a private partner. According to Article 62 (7) of the Road Code, the placement of new devices, such as fixed safety cameras, and their conditions of use must be determined during a consultation between the competent judicial, police and administrative authorities. The agreements made are then laid down in a protocol. Was this procedure followed by the city of Bilzen, which in cooperation with the consortium TaaS decided to install twelve route checks? If not, what are the consequences for the approved municipal decree? You would have drawn up an alternative proposal whereby revenues would be transferred not only to the regions but also to the local authorities and to the police. An accounting tool would even have been developed to make it possible to simulate keys. Does it mean that the GAS 5 system will be reversed? Which cities and municipalities have you consulted about this? Has this alternative proposal been submitted to the region's regions? If so, what was their reaction to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u53	Minister, Mr Raskin pointed out that an alternative to the Gas 5 scheme, which is now in force for a little longer than a year, would be developed. You yourself submitted a legislative proposal in the previous legislature to allow gas fines in the event of speeding offences. I was always rather sceptical about this, because of course the gas regulation brings with it a number of disadvantages. If we apply them to traffic offences, the disadvantages are not insignificant, for example, in dealing with repeated driving licences with points, for example, which are currently being worked on. Similarly, the identification of legal persons and of foreign offenders is not evident in the GAS regulation. The administrative workload for cities and municipalities is not nothing either, and offenders have more opportunities to avoid fines, because other ways of punishing justice, such as the friendly settlement, cannot be applied. So I can only welcome the fact that alternatives are being looked at. I am therefore charmed by the scenario that will work through the Crossborder project, which was already presented to the VVSG, whereby the fines would be passed on to the local authorities. I am very interested, Minister, whether this alternative will indeed be developed and whether it can be an alternative to regulating the gas fines for speeding offences. This has already been discussed in the Flemish Parliament. Your colleague, Flemish minister Somers, replied to a question from Mrs Partyka: " Either the local authorities work via Crossborder, or they work with their own system, together with other local authorities." Minister, I look forward to your answers to the following questions. What is the purpose of the spill-over scenario via Crossborder: to process gas fines an sich or to offer an alternative to gas fines? Is it one or the other, or are they complementary? Could you give me a little more explanation about that? What regulatory steps are needed to ensure that the revenues of speeding fines are passed on to local authorities and possibly to local police areas? How is the coordination with the Flemish colleagues going? What's the scheduled timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Raskin, you asked a question about Bilzen. At the moment I have no knowledge of a protocol agreement with the Limburg parish in the context of the famous conciliation procedure. It is about a protocol agreement that must be entered into before the installation of 12 flashlights. What's the result? It is not for the Minister of Justice to respond to a local authority decision which may or may not be approved. This is the responsibility of the supervisory authorities, in particular the Flemish Government and the Flemish Minister for the Interior. I want to respect the jurisdictional rules. I hope you understand. On your second question, Mr Raskin, and on your first and third questions, Mr Van den Bergh, for which I thank you, we have indeed been helping the Flemish government and the VVSG for some time. As mayor of the title, I found that there are problems quite quickly after the entry into force of the GAS 5 regulation, just over a year ago. That is why we in the Justice Department have begun to think proactively about whether we could offer an alternative. We put road safety first with Crossborder. This system works very well: 93 % of traffic fines are paid. Dealing with repeated cases is a crucial element. That is why we have decided to continue to focus on a centralised handling of all offences, including minor traffic offences. Mr Van den Bergh, when dealing with the gas handling of certain traffic offences, it was specifically about people who were parked wrongly. That used to be a police violation and no action was taken by the police, because the police do not have the capacity to act. This can now be dealt with via GAS. I think that's a good system. For example, it is about someone who wrongly parks in a place reserved for someone with disabilities. It is not a bad thing to go there via GAS. However, here we are talking about speeding offences, and this must be closely monitored, especially in the case of repeated offences. Any alternative to the GAS 5 regulation should, as in the case of this regulation, provide financial support to cities and municipalities if they are committed to improving road safety. That is why we have developed a spill-over scenario. For this we use the highly efficient and effective regulations of the Crossborder system. The alternative is that at the end of the journey the income will also be passed on to the local actors. This will enable us to guarantee the punishment of legal persons, in accordance with Article 67ter, as well as foreigners who drive too fast in a particular city or municipality. Through the system of European certificates, we can now monitor this very efficiently. We were indeed in contact with the administration of the VVSG itself, and I also had a personal discussion with Mr Wim Dries and with some of the provincial governors. We also discussed the dossier with Flanders, because no other region provides gas treatment. During these conversations we also offered a simulation tool for the spill-over scenario. It is therefore possible to evaluate and adjust the financial impact of certain decisions in a simple way. Mr Van den Bergh, there is no need for regulatory action. The income is currently due to Flanders. So when it comes to a start-up scenario, Flanders has to ask the Justice Department to transfer it directly to the local actors. Members of Finance were also involved in this process in order to organise the process as efficiently as possible. The decision to use the Crossborder system must be taken by the Flemish government, colleagues Raskin and Van den Bergh. When a municipality opts for a spill-over scenario and the criteria of the scenario are determined, we can make everything operational in one month. So it can happen very quickly, but the decision has to be taken by the Flemish Government. I hope that both of you, as Members of Parliament who are also locally active, will support the alternative to GAS 5 with your respective Deputy Prime Ministers and Prime Minister. Our parties are part of the Flemish government together. My intention is not to replace the GAS 5 system. The cities and municipalities that want to opt for this can do so, but, as you yourself say, there are a number of problems involved. We must invest in this and we cannot establish certain facts, such as repeated events. I believe that our alternative is more complete in that respect. I hope that the Flemish Government will support that, too. This also means, of course, that the Flemish Government must agree to a spill-over scenario. If not, cities and municipalities will not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u55	Thank you, Minister, I thought it was a very interesting and clear answer. It is therefore a possible alternative, not a replacement system. You have already had discussions with Flanders about this. From your answer, I am not clear how Flanders reacted to that. I don't mean negative, but I find it a little odd. After all, there are some angels to the GAS story. It is remarkable, however, that you come up with an alternative from the federal level, which cannot be applied in other regions, so soon after the introduction of the Gas 5 system, which bears a clear stamp from Minister Somers and Minister Peeters. So I wonder how Flanders reacted to this. What advantages and disadvantages do we see there? I didn't get that out of your answer. But we'll knock on the other side of the street to find out what's going on there. Nor have I received an answer to my question as to which cities and municipalities have already been consulted. Was that with all the Flemish cities and municipalities or just the VVSG? I will also make a number of contacts in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u56	It is a very good thing that there is a good workable alternative based on the good Crossborder system for the GAS 5 system for speeding offences, which nevertheless has a number of disadvantages, including the inability to deal with repeated incidents, but crucial in the light of road safety. The willingness to use the alternative will, of course, depend in part on the amounts being paid out and whether these amounts are comparable to the revenues from, among other things, the GAS fines. The system will then be considered, perhaps for some people rather than road safety, which is at least the main concern for us. I am very pleased with the alternative proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u57	Mr Raskin, I have not consulted all the cities and municipalities myself, but I will give you the list of cities and municipalities with which contact was made. For example, I had contact with Kortrijk myself. Mr Van den Bergh, we are proposing an equivalent amount to be paid as in the case of GAS 5. In that respect, it is no more or less; it is simply being poured out. The response of the relevant Minister for Mobility and the Minister for Internal Affairs, with whom I was in contact, is positive. This can be seen as an alternative to the GAS 5 system. The big question is whether the Flemish Government is prepared to transfer the amount in turn, as would be the case with GAS 5. It's about serious amounts anyway. Then, of course, there must be an agreement between the Flemish Government and the Flemish Minister concerned to do so effectively. I'm expressing that hope. For the alternative without a spill-over scenario, no city or municipality would choose. It is just our ambition to increase road safety by encouraging cities and municipalities to invest financially. In this way we do not have to go down the road of privatisation of controls, as some are doing now. I do not think that privatisation is a good thing for road safety, but it is only about profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u58	Minister, may I ask you to repeat that last quote to your colleague, the future mayor of Bilzen, who yesterday made a fervent plea for the earning model, which does not guarantee better road safety at all? I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u59	Madam President, Minister, it seems as if not a day has passed in the last few weeks without shocking images appearing on our screens. Very often, agents and aid workers, people who risk their bodies and their members to make our society safe, are the direct object of those videos. Just think of the footage of cops being hit with nadar fences and garbage cans during the penultimate corona demonstration. I don't think they're gonna forget that footage soon and not at all when it happens to you. A few days later we saw the horrible footage of a neighborhood cop who was stabbed by a 12-year-old boy. It is clear to everyone that something must be done in the short term and that at least a strong signal must be given, even if there is a COL and even if it is taken seriously. I understand there are problems with the evidence, although there are plenty of videos. Bodycams can indeed help. However, I still miss that powerful signal. Only one person could be apprehended in the previous coronarelles, Minister. That doesn't do any good for the cause. I have no doubt that people are doing their utmost to get to work on this, but if we see that few arrests are being made, the violent will continue to feel powerful and unpunished. I know that the new Criminal Code will include an increase in the penalty rate for violence against the police, but that Penal Code is not yet in place until tomorrow. In the meantime, we can't keep beating. There are several proposals, including those from Mrs Dillen. There is a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pivin. If we table a legislative proposal, we will always have the answer that this will be linked to the new Criminal Code. The policy of persecution is at least as essential. After all, there is nothing about punishment if one cannot first prosecute. Mr Minister, what timing do you envisage for the treatment of the new Criminal Code, which includes the requested increase in criminal penalties? What points of discussion should be clarified within the majority before we can discuss the texts in Parliament? I believe that many aspects of our society require a strong signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u60	Madam President, Minister, violence against our police and all aid workers in the broadest sense of the word is unfortunately not a new phenomenon. For years, the Flemish interest has been pressing for a much stricter approach. We are asking for a firmer action against any form of violence against police and aid workers. Here is only a penalty increase the correct answer. Zero tolerance must be the message. As Mr De Wit has already said, we have a very clear legislative proposal in this area and we should not wait until the new Criminal Code is dealt with. Mr De Wit has also said that the violence against the police has unfortunately escalated recently. Witnessed the hallucinating images of the riots that were deliberately provoked during the various corona manifestations and where rioters were only out to confront the police. A trail of destruction through the streets of Brussels was the result. Numerous officers were injured and some even ended up in the hospital. Witnessed also the totally incomprehensible fact of a 12-year-old who, during a stabbing, caused particularly serious injuries to an agent, who must remain in the hospital for at least two weeks. Mr. Secretary, these are not single facts. Unfortunately, it has become daily reality in our society. Therefore, you owe it to the police and the aid workers to take a very firm stance against any form of aggression against our law enforcement services, small or large, verbal or physical. Unfortunately, the increasing phenomenon of violence against police forces requires a very short-term action plan. Are you prepared to take initiatives on this matter in the face of urgency? I would urge you not to wait for the major reform of the Criminal Code that you have announced, because I fear it will take some time to come. Even if you put it down tomorrow, it will take some time before the work can be completed in this committee. Can you share this view and pay priority attention to it? Minister, of course the only message must be an absolute zero tolerance. Then I have an additional question following the discussion this morning in the Committee on Justice. That is where our legislative proposal and the motion for a resolution tabled by colleagues from the MR were on the agenda. It was announced a long time ago that the famous COL on violence against police and aid workers would be evaluated by the end of 2021. When can we expect this evaluation? Do you already have a timing on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was struck by the Commissioner's open letter with many years of experience, in which he expressed his concern, but also despair. I quote: "How long can we, as police, tolerate this? Shall we be silent about how our policemen are to collect more and more?" As the titled mayor of a city centre, I also fully share what he says. If we are seeing images of a 12-year-old child deliberately attacking an agent and stabbing him with a knife, then we must indeed ask ourselves what is going on. Why is the authority no longer accepted? What can policy do about it? I immediately gave that chief of police an answer explaining what the law and the police are doing. The November 2021 circular letter on violence against police was reinforced to zero tolerance. Last week, at a press conference, the Chief Constable of the City of Brussels specifically said that this letter was applied consistently. However, I have also explained that the identification, prosecution and punishment of rioters is often not evident. That has nothing to do with laxity of the parquet or whatever, but it just takes investment to collect evidence. I also told the Chief Constable that by definition, justice will only take place after the facts. The fact that a 12-year-old attacks a police officer with a knife is difficult to describe as a failure of police and justice. Finally, I also told the Chief Constable that we should try to prevent such people from taking part in riots, which require an administrative approach. I also suggested the idea of a ban on places. I have seen that the mayor of Brussels is very fond of that idea. He proposes an initiative similar to the football law. By the way, I've heard that he's a guest tonight in the De Aangeld program, which I'll be looking at with interest. I hope that we will be able to take initiatives on this in Parliament, so that such rioters, who have been proven to be known to the police for riots, can be prevented from such demonstrations. I now turn specifically to Mrs De Wit's first question and Mrs Dillen's first question. The final bottlenecks on Book 1 of the draft Criminal Code will be phased out in the short term at the level of an Inter-Kabinette Working Group. The discussion of Book 2 will also be continued and terminated in the short term by that working party. As soon as the discussions are over, I will issue the draft Criminal Code to the Council of Ministers. What are the points of discussion? The outstanding bottlenecks in Book 1 do not relate to the subject of your question, Mr De Wit. First of all, I would like to stress that it is perfectly understandable that you, together with many professional groups, should not only be speaking about police officers but also about journalists, your legitimate concern about a somewhat disturbing phenomenon in our society where more and more violence is being used. I share this concern. The experts have therefore taken into account the comments they have received from the police in the design of Book 2. On the basis of a fact sheet 'violence against police', the experts have made a number of changes. For example, they have included manslaughter on a person with a social function as an increased form of manslaughter, with a punishment of the highest level. In this increased form of manslaughter, the previously submitted draft was not foreseen. All police officers, without distinction, are included in the category 'persons with a social function'. The hypothesis of violence, merely because someone is a policeman, is also covered by the proposal of the experts and implies a penalty increase. In reply to Mr Dillen's second question, I can say that a clear signal has already been given in the past by introducing a stricter penalty when someone intentionally causes physical injuries to police officers in the context of their duties. The law provides for an increase in penalties for such offences in Article 280 et seq. of the Criminal Code. In cases where the victims of the charges referred to in Article 398, first and second paragraphs, Article 399, first and second paragraphs, Article 400, first and second paragraphs, and Article 401, first and second paragraphs, of the Criminal Code are agents who bear public authority or public power, the defendants risk prison sentences of up to 20 years depending on the infringement. So they've been weighted in the past. The Public Prosecutor's Office has a strict investigation and prosecution policy on violence against members of the police forces. For the judicial handling of cases where violence is used against policemen, there is the famous COL that has been intensified. Violence against policemen cannot be tolerated and is also an important focus of attention during this legislature. We will certainly include that in the Criminal Code. Mrs Dillen, I agree with you that violence against aid workers cannot be tolerated. Violence against aid workers in the broad sense of the word is an important point of attention in the reform of the Criminal Code. The definition of persons with a social function is broad in the design of the new Criminal Code and includes, in addition to the members of police services, members of the fire department, civil protection, ambulances, doctors, dentists, pharmacists, clinical therapists, nurses, midwifes, emergency services staff, social workers, psychologists and postmen. It is also intended to add journalists to this list. Violence against persons with a social function will be more severely punished in the new draft Criminal Code. You also asked about the COL. The evaluation is in full swing. We will inform you and Parliament of the results at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u62	Indeed, more is needed than waiting for the new Criminal Code. There must be firm action. We heard that cry for help, too. It is really essential that a decisive signal is given that it is unacceptable. We must not only do this with words, but we must also be able to do so in practice and on the ground. It is very important that you sit with the police and the public prosecutors and look together at what needs to be done and in what way. You must be very firm in that. It is really unacceptable that people who are responsible for our safety and your safety every day should be treated with impunity. That is unacceptable. I'm really counting on you. If the Criminal Code is not there soon, other channels will have to be used to be very firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u63	Minister, I am somewhat disappointed by your answer. You have listed and announced a number of individual initiatives, all positive ones which we can, of course, support, but we still do not get an answer to the question of a firm and rapid action plan. You say that the Criminal Code will be in place in the near future. Mr Minister, the short term is, of course, a very relative concept in politics, and you know this very well. However, I would suggest that we should not wait for the finalisation of the Criminal Code and its treatment here in committee and plenum, but that we should now immediately and quickly come up with a firm action plan to really take firm action against these forms of violence. Minister, the necessary human and financial resources must be made available to the public prosecutor to ensure that there will be effective prosecution in practice. You referred to persons with a social function who you will explicitly include in the new Criminal Code. Of course we will support you in that. However, I would like to say a little bit here to include the garbage collectors on that list as well. After all, quite recently, you may have read this, too, and said that they have been increasingly confronted with violence lately. They too carry out a particularly important social function in our society. So I urge you not to forget them. Finally, with regard to the evaluation of COL, I have the impression that, at least from your answer, I understand that this evaluation is not yet before tomorrow. You are talking about 'in due course': that too is, of course, a very relative concept in politics. I would have liked to have had an answer on a specific timing. Madam President, I have tabled a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u64	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the problem of violence in the broadest sense against the police and aid workers is not a new problem and has been regularly manifesting itself for many years; - whereas, unfortunately, this problem has been increasing significantly recently; - whereas this form of violence is still an underestimated problem in our society; - whereas any form of violence in general and against police and aid workers is absolutely unacceptable and needs to be tackled with rigour and that the dismissal of these files can and should no longer be allowed; - whereas only a zero tolerance may be the message, asks the government - immediately, in the face of urgency, take the necessary initiatives to tackle any form of violence against the police and aid workers in the broadest sense of the word and to take the necessary legislative initiatives to ensure that any form of violence against the police and aid workers is effectively prosecuted; - to provide the Public Prosecutor's Office with the necessary human and financial resources to enable it to do so in practice in such a way as to ensure that no case of violence against the police and aid workers is dismissed for so-called opportunity reasons." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, Whereas the problem of acts of violence, in the broadest sense of the term, committed against the police and relief services is not a new problem and has been manifest for years; - Considering that this problem has unfortunately worsened considerably in recent times; - Considering that this form of violence is again and again a problem whose gravity is underestimated in our society; - Considering that any form of violence, whether general or directed in particular to the police and rescue services, is unacceptable and must therefore be combated with determination and that the filing of such cases without further action is no longer acceptable; - Whereas the message must be that only zero tolerance will be exercised; asks the government - to take immediately and urgently the necessary initiatives to combat with determination all forms of violence, in the broadest sense of the term, against the police and rescue services and to take the necessary legislative initiatives to ensure that any form of violence against the police and rescue services is effectively prosecuted; - to make the necessary staff and financial resources available to the Public Prosecutor's Office to enable the aforementioned measures to be implemented and thus to ensure that no case of violence committed against police and rescue services is closed for reasons of expediency." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u65	Minister, you have already had the opportunity to announce that you want to tackle the scourge of over-indebtedness. As you know, there are many initiatives in this area, particularly in Flanders. For the past several months, there has been much talk about the so-called "centralisation of debts and accompaniment of payments", put forward by beweging.net in partnership with MyTrustO. Last May, the National Chamber of Judicial Officers wrote in a press release all the evil it thinks of this system. It stated that a private paying system was certainly not the right solution, calling it "unlogical towards the people in debt", which "can really do without entry fees and periodic fees". In the debate on your policy note, you spoke on this subject, explaining that the draft was currently being analysed, like others, and that a working group had been set up for that purpose. A first meeting was scheduled for 9 December 2021. In the last few months, the accredited debt mediation services have in turn expressed their concerns. They are concerned, moreover, about the lack of consultation of their sector in the context of the preparation of the reforms that the government intends to carry out in respect of the fight against overindebtedness, but also of the exercise of the profession of bailiff. Minister, are you aware of the outcome of this first working session? Have others occurred in the intervening period or are they programmed? Within the scope of your powers, could you re-examine the status of the preparatory discussions for the proposal for a comprehensive reform of the legislation? In this context, have you been able to consult with the actors involved in debt mediation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on your first two questions, first of all, I would like to point out that the working group on over-indebtedness, set up by my cabinet, is primarily aimed at reforming the judicial collection of debts. The first meeting of the working group on over-indebtedness did indeed take place on 9 December. The working group is composed of judges and academics specializing in the field of over-indebtedness. At present, an analysis of existing drafts and proposed legislation, comments and reflections from the experts of the working group is being conducted by my firm and administration. A further consultation of the working group will be held shortly. I intend to develop a concrete bill. Some of the approaches envisaged for this purpose are: - early identification and detection of debts, inter alia on the basis of a mediation and communication platform; - an assessment of the joint seizure procedure and the attachment by re-arrangement and extension; - the extension of the procedure for the recovery of unpaid and undisputed claims; - optimisation of the collective debt settlement procedure. At the same time, my firm is also associated with the working group formed by the Economy's office, which is responsible for the amicable recovery component. If you would like more information on this subject, I invite you to ask my colleague the Minister of Economy. In addition, certain initiatives are also carried out in parallel with these working groups, including the reform of the statute of judicial officers, for example. On your third and final question, some mediators have already communicated their proposals in the context of the fight against over-indebtedness. A note is also expected shortly containing the joint proposals of the Debt Mediation Support Centre and other associations for a possible improvement of the procedure for collective settlement of debts. We will examine the proposals and analyses in depth. As soon as the work of the working group is more advanced, we will interview all relevant actors on the ground, including those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. In any event, it is indeed appropriate that the work you are doing towards these reforms be accompanied by consultation and consultation with the actors involved in debt mediation. The increase in energy costs and the galloping inflation it generates put its services under heavy pressure. They are literally overwhelmed especially in CPAS. I can testify to that. It is therefore necessary, especially in the current context, to take the pulse of what could have an impact on their context and workload. I know you're aware of that, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u68	Debates of the European Parliament 55024717C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u69	Madam President, I refer to the question I tabled last week. Because there was no answer then, I'm going to repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u70	I would like to point out that the critical infrastructures in our country are governed by the law of 1 July 2011. The protection of critical infrastructures is a competence of the National Crisis Centre, for which you should address yourself to the Minister of the Interior. You also asked about buildings in which services under my jurisdiction are located. I can tell you in this respect that an inventory is being made that determines where cameras hang, what brand they are, whether the camera in question is connected to other cameras and whether there is a risk of data transmission. It's being mapped. The State Security provides input to the FPS Justice about the indicators to be included in the inventory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u71	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, the buildings under your jurisdiction are currently taking stock of the make of the cameras and checking whether they are connected and whether there is a danger of forwarding or listening. The word espionage has already fallen. At the moment, your services don't know that. An inventory is being prepared. Is that right? I do not know whether I can ask another question and whether the Minister wishes to answer that question. I conclude that one does not know what make the cameras are and how, with what or with whom they are connected. On the basis of these questions, an inventory is being prepared. If my conclusion is not correct, you can at least correct me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u72	I replied as I replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u73	You can always submit a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u74	"Mr Van Quickenborne, Minister, since 10 December 2021, the gambling committee has been blocking new applications as well as requests for renewals to hire bets introduced by bookstores.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u75	Thank you for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u76	My colleague, we are making every effort to adopt this royal decree as soon as possible. This week, the draft royal decree will be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. We are trying to get the emergency so that we can get the opinion within five days so that this royal decree can be published in the coming weeks. A transitional measure must be provided for by law. The legislative process will take longer than the publication of a royal decree. I have already contacted the Game of Chance Commission and can confirm that as soon as this Royal Order comes into force, priority will be given to the renewal of the licences that have expired since 1 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u77	Minister, I am satisfied with your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u78	Madam President, Minister, the reason for my question was a highly mediatised accident last Sunday, but I do not want to talk about that particular accident. The point is that when the right to drive is declared to lapse and someone has to turn in his driving licence, a lot of time can pass before that happens effectively. That was once again apparent from the accident mentioned. As a result, people can legally continue to drive around in traffic for a long time, despite a ruling. This can sometimes have consequences, as has been shown. However, there would be an instrument that could provide a solution for this, in particular the Mercurius crossroads bank, which was still operationalised in the previous legislature. In this way, suspensions or convictions would be immediately accessible online. In 2016, it was said that an additional advantage could be that the licence should no longer be issued to the Registry in the event of a suspension. It could therefore be sufficient to include the suspension in the Mercurius crossroads bank, which would speed up the execution of the sentence after a ruling. I have the following questions, Minister. How do you intend to approach the problem? Why is there so much delay in withdrawing a driving licence following the imposition of a driving ban? How do you feel about the fact that the licence is immediately registered as invalid in the Mercurius crossroads, following a judgment, for example, not having to wait six months for that to happen effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u79	Madam President, Minister, the police judge who commented on the accident said that if the person does not appeal, then it is normal that the sentence should not be enforced, it may take months for the district agent to come along, between four and six months. Are you aware of the problem? Can we take measures to eliminate this discrepancy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u80	Madam President, Mr Van den Bergh, Mrs Bury, I agree with you when you say that there may be as little time as possible between the conviction and the execution of the conviction. Justice delayed is justice denied. Now I may become the spoiler, but I must point out that, in a state of law, it is right that procedures and deadlines should be respected. In this respect, we need to make the judgments of the court concerned more nuanced. The truth has its rights. Criminal proceedings should be applied systematically and be subject to strict time limits. Thus, where the judgment has been delivered, the Registry must wait for an appeal period of 30 days from the date on which the judgment was delivered, by an additional period of 10 days available to the public prosecutor for bringing an action after the defendant or the civil party. That is in accordance with Article 203 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Only after that time limit has expired, when the judgment has become final, will the Public Prosecutor take the initiative and have it supplied by the Registry with the necessary documents to enforce the judgment. If the judgment is given by default, the court shall order the judgment to be served on the sentenced person by a bailiff. Upon service, account shall be taken again of a period of 30 days, renewable for 10 days, in accordance with Article 203. Only after that period shall the judgment become final. However, that is not the end of the procedure. In the event of the expiry of the right to drive, account should also be taken of the specific characteristics of the Road Traffic Act. Article 40 provides that a notification must be sent to the convicted person on the initiative of the public prosecutor. Such notification or service shall be effected by the police and shall enable the sentenced person to be informed of the date on which the lapse takes effect and shall order him to deposit his or her licence at the Registry within five days. This service may take some time, for example when the person no longer has a known address or does not respond to subpoenas. In that case, service by the police shall take place when the convicted person enrols in the municipality of his new residence or during a police check. The proceedings for the lapse of the right to direct are conducted according to procedural deadlines which cannot be shortened and involve several actors in the criminal justice chain, which is likely to increase the duration of the execution of the lapse to control. Can the Mercury crossroads improve that situation? The Mercury database is a very interesting instrument, for which I am very grateful to my predecessor, but it will not solve all the problems in its present form. Of course, that database has no impact on the procedural deadlines mentioned earlier. The main advantage of the database is that it facilitates monitoring of the decline to control. In its present form, that database cannot simplify the work associated with the implementation of the decision on the lapse of control. What I would like to do, in consultation with my fellow Minister for Mobility, is to consider to what extent we can dematerialise the driving licence. That's what I'm talking about. Instead of having a driving licence physically deposited at the Registry, which seems to me to be a very old-fashioned system, we can see whether it can be automatically withdrawn, which is thus stated in the database, provided, of course, that the judgment has become res judicata, as I said earlier. Moreover, the prosecution will always have to inform the holder of the licence of the expiry of the right to send it, even if the licence is dematerialised, so that the sentenced person does not drive effectively during the expiry period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u81	Minister, the idea of dematerialising the driving licence is not new and is an interesting slope. The card is a European model, so it may not just be abolished, but it could be dematerialised. This is an interesting track, but police officers on the ground should be able to consult the database in real time or at any time. That's the logic itself. Of course, we have every respect for the rule of law and the deadlines to be respected, but I would like to stress the problem of alcohol behind the wheel here, especially in the case of repeat drivers. These are usually people who have a problem and suffer from a heavier alcohol addiction. At that time, it is necessary to consider whether security measures cannot be taken pending, for example, the enforcement of the judgment. The person involved in last Sunday's incident, for example, has been immediately withdrawn in the event of his recidivism for only 15 days for the time being. We need to consider whether other security measures can be imposed, such as a mandatory alcohol lock, pending the implementation of a ruling. In this way, drivers who are effectively affected by alcohol problems can be restrained a little more strictly, with all due respect for the principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u82	Mr Van den Bergh, there is an Article 42 which makes this possible. In view of the separation of powers, it imposes the security measure, which is also often done in the case of addiction problems. It's interesting to think about that. However, it is not for a minister to impose it when a public prosecutor would have to impose that measure in the event of a security measure. And certainly not only in the case of alcohol problems, because we also see this in the case of drugs. We should be able to use this much more quickly. If someone is doing a nicely intoxicated job, the driving licence should be able to be taken out of court immediately, so that the whole period of time does not have to be completed. That is a piste that can be given to the parquets as a recommendation. However, that is all that can be done. Mr Minister, you mentioned the time limits for appeals. I also noted that, in this particular case, I do not know whether or not there has been an appeal or what has happened. However, there are those 30-day periods and ten-day periods that the public prosecutor can still follow. Then there is the power of res judicata and another month. Then we'll end up in more than two months. There were four to six months here. Take two months off there. That's still a very long time before the neighborhood cop gets to the door. That can be a lot shorter, even with those more than two months less. Dematerializing is a good tool. I'm glad you've already been in touch with your colleague. We invite you to work on the file together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u83	Mr Minister, this question was just tabled yesterday before 11:00 a.m., after a number of press communications. After all, it is not always possible to put a question on Friday about the topicality that will only occur a few days later. You must have noticed that I'm always gonna sit down until it's my turn. I'll never put in a question and then don't ask them unless there's no other way to do what could happen to anyone. So if there is one part of my question, and you do not yet have an answer, I understand that. In future, please tell me that you or your services have not yet completed the answer. As far as the question itself is concerned, the overpopulation in prisons is a subject that has been discussed repeatedly in this committee. So I will not repeat everything. We know that the trade unions have been calling the alarm for a long time, but now the Director-General of the prison system has also done so. In Het Nieuwsblad we could read that in his thirty-year career with the Justice Department he never knew as much as he did today in the prison of Antwerp. I've already asked questions about that. In the article, he added that it is completely unrealistic to live up to the Minister's promise to also carry out short prison sentences in the current circumstances. He also referred to Operation Sky and the delay due to corona. At the moment there is a huge influx and the cells are already overcrowded today. Moreover, it appears that the vast majority of prisoners are serving the full sentence. He asked that question, too. It could be a numerical question that you may soon receive from me, Minister. Well, you know that. Apart from that, this is not a new or unexpected problem. I've questioned you on several occasions about this. It seems, however, that it is very difficult, despite the initiatives taken, to turn the tide. When I hear the Director-General, it just doesn't improve on the ground. You have repeatedly announced a number of short-term interventions. Can you give me the state of play? What results have been achieved with this? Are you planning any further short-term measures, especially in Antwerp? You know that a very large part of the overpopulation is carried by Flanders and certainly by the Antwerp prison. How are the promised transfers to other prisons, including in the south of the country? What is the state of play? The committee visited Haren's prison. Unfortunately, I could not be there, but I will certainly still exercise my parliamentary right to go there. This autumn, the doors will finally open there. I know that the situation is not optimal either, and that is still euphemistically expressed, but is it an option to take a little pressure off the boiler by keeping the Brussels prisons open a little longer, even though they are old, so that we still have a little more capacity, even after the opening of Haren? I would find the answer to the next question very interesting, but if you cannot give it now, I fully understand that. I will then turn them into a written question. What is the percentage of prisoners serving the full sentence? What about the execution? Do many prisoners have their full sentence or a very large part of it? Is that percentage indeed rising, as the warden said? The Director-General also calls for the number of prisoners to be reduced to less than 10,000. Once again, you say that the number of prisoners must be adapted to capacity. You know our mantra in this matter, Minister, I think this is a wrong move. However, I would like to hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u84	Madam President, I told you I had to leave at 5:45 p.m. I apologize, but I had a problem with the connection. I'm answering from my cell phone now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u85	Minister, if it is too difficult to answer now, it can also be moved to next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u86	No problem, Mrs. De Wit. We have prepared the answer. I will deliver your fourth question on the figures in writing. Nor do you agree with what I have just said, because you are doing it correctly. It wasn't about this case, it was about other people who seem to be uncomfortable. I hope that the President, together with the Conference of Presidents, will respond to what I have said. Then I'll come to the answer. Short-term interventions are mainly in the improvement of internal processes in order to accelerate the flow and in the improvement of cooperation with our partners. Firstly, we are talking about better cooperation with the DVZ and the prisons in order to ensure that the procedure for the removal of detainees without the right of residence is applied as quickly as possible. Secondly, we are talking about improving voluntary and forced return. You know we've been deporting prisoners for the past year, but we can do better than that. Even if we had the best figure in the last eight years, I think we should be able to do better in that regard. We are also investigating how internal procedures on the granting of arrangements such as night-time permits or limited detention can be improved. The sooner prisoners can use these modalities with the right time conditions, the sooner they will have their re-classification plan in order and can be released under conditions. This also allows prisoners to be followed in the outside world in the final stage of their detention and can benefit the number of prisoners who end up in prison. The delivery of the new prisons in Haren and Dendermonde will also provide additional capacity. In addition, we are looking for suitable locations for detention homes and transition homes that will be added this year. That's all additional capacity. As has been said several times, the administration has created a temporary humanitarian capacity. That is not an obvious exercise, which is already quite advanced. Negotiations with trade unions are almost over. This month we should also present the evolution of ground sleepers to the CPT. As for your second question, the 276 prisoners were transferred from Antwerp in the context of depopulation. This has also been agreed with the social partners and this movement is maintained. The exercise to generate additional temporary humanitarian capacity in the South region is still to be done. As far as your third question is concerned, the temporary operation of older capacity, possibly with a re-destination in terms of target group, is a track that is actively viewed by us. As for your last question, one does not exclude the other. I believe that we need to provide additional and other capacity if it proves necessary, but at the same time we need to be very attentive to avoid so-called net widening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic683x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Although it is no surprise to me that the same alarm bell is being pulled from all sides. On the other hand, we have been warning about this for a very long time. I understand your concern about the net widening, but, on the other hand, I think that we should maintain a balance. Punishments must be able to be properly enforced after they have been imposed, whatever the punishment. I remain convinced that it is important to provide the necessary capacity to do so. Otherwise, the implementation of the short sentences has already been postponed a few times, and when I hear the director now, I hold my heart. I am therefore pleased that you are considering keeping these older prisons open and seeing what is still possible, even though I am aware that the situation there is not optimal. I think we need to work on this in order to ensure that it is properly enforced with proper punishment, even if it is perhaps just a transitional phase. I very much believe that if one can play briefly on the ball, where that penalty is carried out quickly in a short chain, and again, that applies both to an alternative sentence and to a prison sentence, this can have a great effect. In my view, this will also require less long prison sentences, and this can also have a major impact on our recurrent rates. I don't have to tell you, you're a father yourself, but if I've got my kids, I've got four of them two weeks after they've done something wrong, they won't remember what it was about. And in the meantime, they may have been very good and the punishment is too crazy for words. So short play on the ball is important, and for that capacity is needed on all possible fronts, in all stages of the chain. I am thinking of the investigation, the sentence phase and the execution of the sentence, both in cases that require more treatment and follow-up as well as cases involving alternative sentences or prison sentences. I'm curious. I'm sure we'll follow up on this. We'll definitely keep our finger on the wrist there. I'm still looking forward to seeing the numbers. I'm very curious about that.
