ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u1	Minister, on 1 January 2024 Belgium will chair the Council of the European Union. In order to prepare for this presidency, the European Trade Union Institute (ETUI) has been asked to draw up a report on the importance and strategic opportunities of the European internal market in the changing geopolitical, technological, socio-economic and environmental context. ETUI will need to assess current challenges and threats by considering its potential and opportunities in the context of current and future social and economic challenges, dual transition and open strategic autonomy. You have hoped that this report will benefit from an active commitment from the National Labour Council (NCT). Many exchanges will therefore take place before the final report, which is expected to be completed by the end of June 2022. When was the call for tender for this report published? What were the priority criteria for winning this contract? How many bidders have responded to this call for tenders? Is the European Trade Union Institute (ETUI) specialised in the problem of the internal market? Does it meet the essential conditions of neutrality and impartiality? What method of work will be used to coordinate the NTC, the SPF Economy, the Federal Planning Office, the Central Economic Council and European bodies? Finally, do you think that the deadline of June 2022 for submitting this report can be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u2	Mr President, thank you for your question. Within the framework of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I would like to pay particular attention to the reform of the internal market. In this context, a preparatory study on the potential role of the internal market in responding to the current social, environmental and economic challenges has been launched. A specification was sent on 6 December 2021, in accordance with the protocol for negotiated procedures without prior publication, to five think tanks recognised in integrating societal issues into European consultation. These include the Brussels European and Global Economic Laboratory (Bruegel), the Center of Regulation Europe (CERRE), the Center for European Policy Studies (CEPS), the Royal Institute for International Relations Egmont and the European Trade Union Institute for Research (ETUI). On 11 January, the Evaluation Commission submitted an evaluation of 47/50 on the criteria for the quality and allocation of human resources concerning the offer of ETUI (European Trade Union Institute) The proposed working methodology and the diversity of the profiles of the external and internal experts involved demonstrate the willingness to include all the points of view of society. In addition, ETUI has recognised experience in the drafting of socio-economic studies and industrial relations and monitors European policy developments of strategic importance to the world of work. Meetings of the accompanying committee are regularly organised with all stakeholders to ensure proper monitoring of the methodology, the good representativeness and diversity of the stakeholders interviewed, and compliance with the deadlines announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u3	Mr Minister, I thank you for your clear and precise answer, which supports us in the idea that the public procurement procedure carried out has been respected as well as the expertise of the European Trade Union Institute ETUI. As you have said, the preparation of such a report requires good coordination between the various Belgian bodies and the European bodies. The requested report will soon arrive and we will read it with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 55027652C lapses as Mrs Rohonyi is not present. Question No 55027688C by Mr D'Amico is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u5	Mrs Verhelst is not present, but her question is part of the combined questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I regularly ask you questions about the economic situation in this country. As you will be aware, we first experienced economic stagnation because of corona and then the economic recovery, with shortages of raw materials and so on on a global scale, caused more and more lines of production to cease. We also have high energy prices and so on, which has made life considerably more expensive. Not only the energy bill has become more expensive for people, but they now also have a much more expensive shopping cart. Moreover, I am afraid that we have not seen the latter for a long time, because in view of the supply chain of the companies, the price increases will always be passed on to the final consumer with delay. This means that the shopping cart has now become more expensive, but it will become much more expensive in the future. And then I'm not talking about the prices for anyone who builds, renovates or purchases certain goods or services. It's all gonna be very expensive. Minister, it is often said: it is a problem, but it is not a problem that only occurs in Belgium; it is a problem on a European scale and even on a global scale. But if I go deeper into the many figures, among other things those indicated by the IMF, I can only see that Belgium is dwindling at the bottom of the list. The growth expectations of our economy, both in the short term and in the long term, are not very hopeful. Moreover, inflation is higher here than in other countries. The budget deficit is much larger. Actually, we're not very good. Higher inflation means a much faster reduction in purchasing power. I understand that in this country we do have the automatic wage indexation principle in that country, and this is unique. There are only a few countries that apply that principle. That must not be allowed to happen, but it will always work with delay. Secondly, if inflation is much higher with us, then we will find ourselves in a spiral which will also increase the use of the automatic index, in order to ultimately increase labour costs and ultimately recalculate it to the final customer. That's how they get into a new spiral. That's what worries me. After all, our economy is not making very good progress. If we look only at the European average, we are far below growth. It is also not the case, Minister, that we have a game at the moment, as some other countries in Europe do, to cope with bad times such as these and to give the economy a boost. When we look at our budget deficits, we score very badly there too, especially within the European Union. We often have to leave only Italy behind in terms of economic growth. All the other countries score better than we do. In any case, that is not a good thing. When we talk about purchasing power, I expect a certain amount of action from the government. Since October 2021, we have been debating invoices that are becoming more expensive. At first it was about energy, but now it is also other goods, as I have indicated. I believe that the purchasing power measures are largely lacking. I am therefore very surprised, Minister, that when the people are crying out for purchasing power measures and the power of the government, I see you sitting in the media at a press conference, accompanied by your party chairman, to propose a purchasing power plan, while you were the first to appoint an expert group. You thought it was a good idea to do that. But then suddenly we do not wait for the results of the expert group and a press conference is held. Then I'll make up my mind about who you're talking about. You're Minister of Economics. You're Deputy Prime Minister. However, you have come to propose a plan on behalf of a party, while the people do not see any decisive action in the area of government measures. Do you speak on your own behalf? Or on behalf of the government? Is that plan being supported by the government? Why didn't you just wait for the expert group's results? I also note, Minister, and I have said this before, I do not really understand that you need an expert group by definition. You would expect that there is sufficient expertise within the government, that you have many cabinet members who can provide the necessary support with knowledge. If such an expert group is formed, it is probably because there are as many opinions as parties in the government. Such an expert group must then ensure that certain measures are taken without too much of a knee-down for certain parties in the government. I've just outlined that it doesn't actually look so good. Every time I ask questions in Parliament, I feel that the situation is getting worse for people at home. In the meantime, a small problem has become a catastrophe for many families. If life gets a little more expensive, you can take it temporarily. But at some point the problem becomes structural, and families have to make cuts, not just in the area of clothing and holidays. As the Family Association has been able to derive from a survey, this is about the weekly messages of the people. It hasn't been about people in the lowest income class in a long time. In the beginning it was, but also people within the lower middle class are gradually threatened. These people also cannot use the social tariff for energy. This also means that people must now take up their savings. When the corona crisis broke out, it was strange to find that savings at the banks continued to increase. Some Members asked questions about this in this committee to see how that was possible at those times. At the moment, however, we note that there is a reverse effect and that the total amount of savings stored is falling again for the first time. This means that people actually use their savings to solve their purchasing power problem in part, insofar as they can be called'solving'. However, not everyone has savings. How do you explain that difference between the Belgian figures and those of the other European industrialized countries? Why are our country's economic prospects so much more bleak than elsewhere? How do you view these prospects in relation to the general level of prosperity in our country and in our companies? What have you done or will you do to curb inflation, which is higher in our country than elsewhere in Europe? Inflation will continue to encourage inflation if we continue to index wages. So it's gonna have to stop someday. How will you ensure the competitiveness of our companies? Even if the growth prospects for our economy are not good, our economy still has a lot of growth potential. Will you envisage structural reforms to maximise the growth potential of our economy? Will you, within the range of federal powers, adopt a particular approach that may differ from one region to another, because the needs may be different? What else will you do to increase effectiveness? This could be further developed in certain regions of this country. As far as the expert group is concerned, you will also make a preliminary purchase with your party on what may be. When can we expect concrete results from the expert group? I have pointed out something a number of times in the past. I'm not gonna tell you a story about stagflation right now, even though I think it's coming. The longer the more economists predict that we could move towards recession. When it is discussed in Germany and other major industrialised countries, it is usually something to be desired. We then notice that with some delay this can have an effect on our country as well. If we want to boost the economy, it has to do with staff. We are dealing with a shortage of labour in this country. A lot of companies don't find suitable staff. For this reason too, companies often fall silent, not only because they cannot get material. This, of course, also weighs on our economic growth. However, according to Eurostat, Belgium is the lowest level of activity in Western Europe. How do you look at that? How do you intend to solve this problem further? I have referred to the main issue, Minister, and look forward to your answer. As you know, I often found the answers short on previous occasions, given the important problems that concern many people in this country. So I look forward to a detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u7	Thank you, Mr van Lommel, for your questions and your interplay. The European Commission's prospects for economic growth have indeed been revised downwards. The economic consequences of the terrible war in Ukraine will therefore last longer than expected. The economic situation in Belgium is relatively good compared to neighbouring countries. According to the European forecasts, Belgium and the Netherlands would have achieved their gross domestic product from before the crisis in 2021, while France and Germany would have achieved this later. Higher inflation in Belgium is mainly explained by higher inflation for energy products. This is mainly due to a larger share of variable electricity and gas contracts in Belgium compared to other neighbouring countries. In this context of high inflation, in particular energy prices, we can no longer accept temporary measures that are extended every six months. I would prefer structural measures to improve the purchasing power of families with small and average incomes. Improving purchasing power is a priority for the government in these difficult times. Improving competitiveness is also a priority. It must be for the benefit of the workers. The government will take new initiatives on the basis of the measures proposed by the Group of Ten and by the expert group chaired by the National Bank. However, each party in the government will also submit proposals that will be discussed within the government. That's what I did with my party chairman, based on various university studies, including a study of the KU Leuven. It is planned that an agreement will be reached before the summer or at least before the budget conclave for 2023. It is effectively essential to better support the purchasing power of workers. We must ensure that the share of value added that labour rewards returns to the 1996 level. Structural measures on energy prices will also have to be taken. I am thinking in particular of the structuralization of the reformed social tariff. I also intend to speed up the reform in order to better combat over-indebtedness. The draft has been submitted to the Central Council for Business and the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs and will be presented to Parliament in the autumn. It is a structural measure to improve the purchasing power of people at risk of over-indebtedness and hence poverty. It is also a way of improving the competitiveness of businesses, which will gradually face less unpaid debt. A bill on intellectual property will soon be tabled in Parliament to facilitate access to intellectual property protection for SMEs. At the same time, I am following with great attention the issue of the European unitary patent, which will become a reality after many years in the coming months. This should make it possible to promote innovation and to improve our economic prospects on a structural basis. On the Innovation and Digitalisation axis, the government intends to continue the R&D efforts already undertaken. The government has also undertaken to strengthen the competitiveness of Belgian companies in the context of the recovery and resilience plan, including by developing the hydrogen industry, preparing SMEs for the circular economy and improving cyber security in our country. I hope that Parliament will also take steps to reduce prices and improve purchasing power. I am thinking in particular of the legislative proposals already put forward to facilitate the termination of insurance contracts, on which I was recently asked for my opinion. This should promote consumer mobility and allow healthy competition to develop. These measures, which reduce prices and excessive margins, are particularly important in the current context of high inflation. The government has already strengthened the resources of the Belgian Competition Authority, but additional measures to reduce prices through competition are desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u8	Minister, you have raised a number of issues and measures that I would welcome. You spoke of the excessive debt that would be a concern of all parties in the hemisphere. You said that something must be done about this. At the beginning of the term of office, a number of Members started to do so, but in the end no final agreement was reached. You also talked about the cancellation of insurance. Of course, that measure is necessary. However, I would implement this measure at a time when we are not in a precarious situation as we are today. We are now in an unseen scenario of loss of purchasing power. It has been since the 1970s that we have been in such a precarious situation in terms of inflation. I do not therefore believe that we will make it through the measures you have listed. Minister, the best guarantee to give people purchasing power is to ensure that everyone is at work, that there are jobs and that people have a job. You have made a leap towards the performance you have given together with your party chairman, Mr Paul Magnette. You did say that the presentation was on behalf of your party. However, you will no doubt understand that many people felt it inappropriate for a party at that time to come up with measures that reflect how it sees things and which were then immediately torpedoed by other government parties, while the government itself does not take any measures and people feel left largely in the cold. I therefore believe that the government lacks a certain consensus. If I want to see a press conference, I would prefer it to be a press conference on behalf of the government, with which you show the citizens with a package of measures that it is serious and that you can really do something about purchasing power. You have tried a number of things in the past, but nothing structural yet. I am thinking, for example, of everything that has to do with energy. In the meantime, your Prime Minister has announced that the temporary measure on the 6% VAT may be extended. However, no guarantees have yet been given as to the structural nature of this measure. For example, the price of natural gas has also increased enormously. Some government parties then say that VAT should go back to 21% later because natural gas is polluting and is not good for the climate. However, it is seen that natural gas prices are tripled. If this is to be said to the people, then I understand that trust is a long way away. I also know that you are working with your Prime Minister on a September agreement that Vivaldi would like to reinvent. You have also made a leap towards the budgetary conclave for 2023. These are all matters that we can only establish in September, October or November, during the major discussions of, among other things, the policy papers. Time is running out for the people who can't pay their bill. I therefore believe that structural measures are needed to improve purchasing power. You also say that it must be done and that you agree. However, I see very little happening. Furthermore, you say that labour must be rewarded. That's obvious. We are the country with almost the highest taxes in the world. I also hope, Minister, that you bear in mind that enterprise must also be rewarded. We are a real SME country, with a lot of specialist knowledge that we should definitely keep here. The proportion of our active workforce working in an SME is particularly high. That is why we must ensure that we continue to push the policy along that path. In the port of Antwerp, a very large employer, they want to expand chemical companies, but they want to carry out this expansion in Germany instead of Antwerp, for example, because our energy costs are 20% higher than those in neighbouring countries and the wage costs are also higher here. That's how several cases were handed over. Of course we must ensure that we hear different bells, but they are all regrettable signals, because increasing the number of jobs is always useful for our economy and our economic growth. I fear that the margin of resources you have at your disposal is not so great, because there has not always been a sparing policy. Other countries in Europe are better off and can afford a little more in times like the present. I note that the federal government never puts its own hands into its own bosom by looking at how it can function more sparingly or more efficiently. Your Secretary of State, Mr Dermine, has already posted a video on Twitter. I said that there was quite a bit of fat on public finances and that they could be used more efficiently, but he understood that differently at the time. At the time, I did not want to cast a stone at the many officials, but at political policy. I am convinced that our resources can be used much more efficiently. This would now be useful to improve people's purchasing power significantly, among other things. We talked about the energy bills, but you didn't say much about the shopping cart. A change can be made to VAT on basic goods, which may still be racked. Also in the whole story about the prices at the pump there is a lot of bakery in the government. In the end, the government has given a very small handout through excise duties, while much more can be done to achieve the European minimum allowed. Such cases were also not accepted by the public. So people still have to deal with it every day. It may be said that people abroad pay more to the pump, which is indeed the case, but people already pay almost the highest taxes in the world. Last week we saw it, new research shows very clearly that we are tax champions, that there is nowhere as heavy a burden as here in this country. So I fear that the whole system will have to be structurally re-invented. When I look at the PS plan, I see that certain expenses will be incurred, but they will be compensated by new taxes. I agree with the fact that certain taxes have to be levied, but before new taxes are introduced for new income, we need to consider how to reform and make the whole system fairer. Minister, I have prepared a motion for a recommendation. In this I recommend a number of concrete measures. Firstly, I am asking for a stronger policy on purchasing power. People are waiting for that but haven't seen much. It's no longer five to twelve, twelve hours has already passed. We must also dare to look at structural measures to further boost the growth potential of our economy, which is absolutely there. We must continue to look at the competitiveness of our companies, which must be guaranteed. It must also be guaranteed by extending jobs or new jobs. We must also do everything possible to reduce inflation, which is much higher in Belgium than elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u9	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the economic indicators and the IMF report, - having regard to the conclusion that inflation in Belgium is higher, the budget deficit is higher and economic growth is lower than most other industrialized countries; - having regard to previous questions, interpretations and interventions to the Minister concerning inflation and purchasing power; - considering that the problem of inflation in the past was considered to be predominantly minimalist by the government; - whereas lower economic growth has a negative impact on the overall level of prosperity and businesses; asks the government - to pursue a stronger purchasing power policy; - take structural measures to boost the growth potential of our economy; - to ensure the competitiveness of our companies to ensure the maintenance and expansion of jobs; - to do everything and not to leave behind to slow down inflation, which is predominantly higher in Belgium than elsewhere.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - taking into account the economic indicators and the IMF report; - in view of the conclusion that Belgium is experiencing higher inflation, a larger budget deficit and lower economic growth than most other industrialized countries; - having regard to the questions, inquiries and interventions previously referred to the Minister concerning inflation and purchasing power; Whereas the government has considered the problem of inflation to be essentially minor in the past; - Whereas lower economic growth has a negative impact on the overall level of prosperity and on businesses; asks the government - to pursue a policy of strengthening purchasing power; - take structural measures to increase the growth potential of our economy; - to safeguard the competitiveness of our enterprises in order to ensure the maintenance and extension of employment; - to make every effort and do nothing to slow down inflation, which is generally higher in Belgium than elsewhere." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leslie Leoni. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u10	Mr President, I apologize for my delay and thank you and colleagues for allowing me to ask my question. Mr Minister, on 21 February a European citizens' initiative was launched with a view to achieving a ban on trade with Israeli settlements in the occupied territories. The aim is to obtain one million signatures in one year, including 15,000 in Belgium. It is on this condition that the initiators will be able to be heard by Parliament and the Commission and that the latter will have to take a decision and justify it. The process is supported by about 100 NGOs including Avaaz, Human Rights Watch and the International Federation for Human Rights. At the same time, the CNCD-11.11.11. has reactivated the Belgian campaign Made in Illegality, which shares the same objective. It is supported by some 30 organisations and trade unions in our country. We know that the European Union is the first export market for the Hebrew state and that a substantial proportion of these products come from the colonies. Since 2015, labelling has been mandatory within the Union. However, this imperative is far from being respected. That is why this government, in its government agreement, has decided to move on with the policy of differentiation. A working group has been set up. Minister, have you been aware of this European citizens' initiative? I don't doubt it. If necessary, if the conditions for taking into account were met, will you relay this request to the European level? Could you provide an update on the progress of the working group's work within the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u11	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, indeed, the European Union must respect its legal obligations and the commitments it has undertaken at international level, particularly in the field of international humanitarian law. In this context, we can support the idea that the recognition of the illegal character of settlements could be accompanied, at EU level, by regulation of trade in goods from these colonies. I come to the work done by my administration. First, consultations are under way with Member States and civil society to determine whether and how the technical arrangement can be improved. Secondly, another exercise is also under way. It aims to assess possible cooperation between my administration and customs in the control of product labelling and, where appropriate, the adoption of a specific modus operandi. Thirdly, my administration has begun a reflection on how best to raise awareness among consumers and businesses. Fourthly, an exercise focuses on the legal possibilities for punishing economic operators established in Belgium who trade with companies included in the United Nations database (list of 12 February 2020) and who are directly or indirectly involved in certain specific activities related to Israeli settlements in the occupied territories. As part of this exercise, it should be assessed whether it is necessary to draw up and adopt ad hoc Belgian legislation. As far as the progress of this work is concerned, we hope to achieve a result before the end of the year for the first three strands. For the fourth, a slightly more reasonable period of time could lead us to the end of 2023 if a law were to be passed. Mr. Ben Achour, you can count on my determination to uphold international law in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers, but above all for your voluntarism on this important issue. Yesterday took place the "flag march", which saw nearly 70,000 ultra-nationalists crossing Jerusalem with the cry of "Death to the Arabs!" – and it wasn't the slightest insult. The violence against Palestinians and the assassination of Palestinian-American journalist 15 days ago testify to this: violence is increasing and, with it, threats on the peace horizon in the region. Faced with this radicalisation of both the Israeli government and Israeli society, Europeans must be able to change their paradigm or, in any case, the fundamentals of their reading grid on this issue. We must now adapt to this radicalisation and take concrete action. We were able to do so in other cases. We must be able to do so in this one too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u13	Question No 55027729C by Mrs Florence Reuter is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 55027784C by Mrs Depraetere is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u15	Minister, the monthly reports of Statbel show that the number of registered bankruptcies has increased. The Flemish Region received the highest number of monthly bankruptcies. Compared to March 2019, there is even an increase of 22.5%. In March 2019 there was no lockdown and corona, so I wonder if the increase has anything to do with the corona crisis. After all, the government has taken a lot of support measures to guide companies through the corona crisis. During that period, the bankruptcy rates were also lower, but I find an increase of 22.5% very large. One has to go back to October 2013 to find such figures. In Brussels and Wallonia, the monthly number of bankruptcies has even fallen compared to the same period in 2019. What explanation do you have for those numbers? What impact do you expect on economic growth? Does it have to do with the fact that there might be a recession coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u16	Thank you, Mr Van Lommel, for your question. I would remind you that, following the coronapandemic, the government set up two moratoria for bankruptcy. In addition, several measures were taken to support companies. The closure of the moratoria and the suspension of a number of aid measures are likely to be the basis for the increase in the number of bankruptcies in March 2022 compared to the same period in 2022. However, this figure is 2.7 % lower than in the same period in 2019. When the data of March 2022 are analysed, it appears that 43% of the bankruptcies in the Trade sector fell in the repair of cars and motorcycles and in the provision of accommodation and meals. The Flemish Region accounts for 59 percent of the bankruptcies in these two categories. 70% of employers in these two categories are based in the Flemish Region. This explains the higher number of bankruptcies compared to the other two regions. According to the European Commission's latest forecasts, economic growth in the European Union has been brought down from 4.3 % to 2.7 % for 2022. In Belgium, as I have already answered a previous question, economic growth is expected to reach 2% in 2022. According to these forecasts, Belgium and the Netherlands would have regained their pre-crisis GDP by 2021, while for France and the euro area this will happen later. For Germany even in 2023. According to the latest forecasts, no recession is expected in 2022 and 2023 either in Europe or in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You mentioned a number of specific sectors which seem to be responsible for these figures. That concerns me and is certainly something to follow up on. You are talking about economic growth of 2% and 2.6 % as the European average. You say that a recession is not really expected, but you have to understand that when inflation occurs and everything in the supply chain becomes more expensive, the value of value added is much higher and that it should actually grow in relation to wage increases within GDP. That seems logical to me because we are talking about added value. If we look at that 2% real, I do not think we should talk about growth. If we were to correct that 2%... I think we should certainly follow up on bankruptcy rates in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament 55027941C by Mrs Jadin lapses. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55027968C and No. 55027969C by Mrs Houtmeyers also lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u19	Mr President, Minister, we have heard that at least one management company has received a letter from the FPS Economy concerning copyright. That letter asks for all calculations to be made again for the year 2021. In a number of cases, even software adjustments will be needed to make this possible. In concrete terms, this question also means that many interested parties will receive their compensation later than usual. Mr Minister, why did the FPS Economy write that letter to management companies? What is the reason for the question of recalculation? Following this recalculation, will a new check be carried out, for example on a sample basis, as is always the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u20	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, my administration has no knowledge of such a file ordering a management company to re-create all the calculations for 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u21	Mr Minister, we must look at this in greater detail, because these letters do not just fall out of the sky. So we need to find out where that came from. I understood that those letters came from the FPS Economy, but you say that no such letters were sent from your services. That's weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u22	Mr President, Minister, my colleague Patrick Prévot, who carefully follows the issue of amicable recovery of consumer debts, would have liked to ask you this question. However, it is currently between two bottles. In this context, I assume that he will not blame me for resuming his question on the fight against over-indebtedness, which is of paramount importance to my political group. It is all the more so in the current context, since, with the rise in the price of energy and essential goods, many citizens are struggling with exploding bills. As we know, in our committee – as we have held hearings on the debt industry – it is unfortunately common for a few euros to become a debt of several hundred euros. It is therefore essential to establish a framework and to limit recall costs. In addition, I was again questioned on May 19 by reading an article published in Le Vif/L'Express concerning the collection of parking fees by bailiffs. We learned that many of the procedures opened by the bailiffs were tainted by irregularities. Control of these by the SPF Economy would remedy some abuses. So this is an opportunity for me to ask you the following question. Minister, can you take stock of the issue of amicable recovery of consumer debts? What is the status of the bill? What are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u23	Madam Member, thank you for your question, which could indeed have been that of your colleague Patrick Prévot. I also express to him and to his companion all my congratulations and encouragement for the happy event. Debt recovery is a matter that he has always followed and for which he has sought progress. I am therefore pleased to be able to announce an important reform in this area by creating a new book in the Code of Economic Law, which will be called "Consumer's debt". The bill will strictly regulate the costs, costs and allowances that are claimed from the consumer, as well as the activity and procedure of amicable recovery by the professionals. The bill is currently being submitted to the Central Economic Council and the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs. This project is very important to me and I want to move it forward as quickly as possible. Upon the return of the opinions, the bill will be re-discussed within the government. An opinion will then be requested from the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State during the summer period, the intention being to submit this draft to your committee and Parliament in autumn. This is an important subject. He was before the current crisis. It will be even more so in the difficult times that a large part of our population is going through today. It is essential for me to move forward quickly in order to supervise, control and better regulate these practices of amicable recovery by professionals who will henceforth, if the project is not substantially modified, be subject to the control of the Economic Inspectorate, possibly, in case of abuse or non-compliance with the rules, penalties to the key.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic799x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer, which is very clear, as is your agenda. I will of course pass on your information to my colleague.
