ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u1	As far as consent is concerned, Commissioner, Article 6 of the eBox Act stipulates that persons must have agreed in advance and expressly to the electronic exchange of messages via the eBox and that they can withdraw this consent at any time. We are in an optimal configuration, the citizen explicitly consents to the use of the e-Box. Such authorisation shall be given in a general manner for the use of the e-Box instrument. The main commitment of the e-Box is that the government can significantly save on shipping paper mail. In theory, it can send messages to citizens more efficiently and at the same time reduce the ecological footprint. Therefore, it is not intended to make the e-Box simply a register for documents sent in paper form. In any case, we must of course do everything we can to make the e-Box truly a practical tool for the citizens. At present, it is not possible for the user to select the senders on the basis of the choice to receive paper or electronic versions. There are currently 250 senders. This number is expected to increase significantly in the coming years, which could make selective use of the e-Box more difficult. However, such an option is being developed at sender level, which could provide an effective response to these challenges. The citizen could thus choose from whom he wishes to receive messages or documents via the e-Box or on paper. In addition to the consent he has given on activation of the e-Box, the citizen shall receive a notification when a new sender is added. The citizen could at any time decide to withdraw his consent and this per recipient. In parallel, efforts are also being made to improve the notification mechanism for messages sent in the e-Box. In addition to e-mail addresses, for example, it is conceivable that a citizen is informed by SMS. This would reduce the risk that important messages will not be consulted. I would like to stress that the activation and use of the e-Box is not mandatory. Everyone is free to decide whether or not to use it. As far as the use of private platforms is concerned, as far as I am concerned, any opportunity, whether public or private, must be considered and, if it has all the necessary levels of security, used. The best example of a private application used by public administrations is itsme application. In the case of this application, the combined solution FAS/itsme has been recognised at European level at the highest level of security. The combined solution FAS/itsme is therefore very safe. Evidence of effectiveness is that this solution has been used since 2018 by many citizens who connect to the various online applications of Belgian public services and other EU countries. In the case of the e-Box, actors such as Doccle have added value to citizens, they contribute to some of the e-Box activations and have added value by being able to receive messages from private actors, such as sickness funds and others. Provided that particular attention is paid to security aspects, they do have their place in the e-Boxecosystem in which the public and private sectors are in a win-win relationship to facilitate citizens' lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u2	Thank you for these answers. As far as the e-Box is concerned, quite a few people have a problem with the fact that they have opted unnoticed for the digital reception of their documents and that they no longer receive a paper version of their documents. We must ensure that we do not push people into digitisation in a hidden way, without them being aware of it. After all, that could get a lot of people in trouble. People should be free to choose. Fine for those who want to participate in the digitisation process. If we can save on postal costs and better inform people, then that is a good thing. However, it must be a free choice and be done in a well-informed manner. Digitisation must never be imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, my first question is about the phenomenon 'Facebook jail', which is increasingly emerging. Recently, a number of well-known, according to some notorious, corona explorers were removed from some platforms. At the same time, videos that undermine certain theories were also removed, perhaps because the algorithms have difficulty figuring out the purpose of the videos. Interestingly, the recent call from 80 international fact-check organisations to YouTube was that it was high time to do something about such publications, otherwise YouTube would compromise social harmony and actually function as a robust echo chamber, leading to even more polarization in our society. It is not only a good thing that, as a society, we see what is happening on such platforms, it is also good for the platforms themselves. After all, we are seeing a new phenomenon emerging. Today, some who are removed from certain platforms end up on clones of those popular media. I don't know them myself, but it's about Betshoot, Odyssee and Rumble, for example. These are often extreme right-wing, libertarian corners of the Internet, the so-called alt-tech, where everything is allowed and one can see a rapid radicalisation of certain thoughts. I would like to hear what progress has been made on the implementation of the resolution that we adopted in Parliament, in which we ask the government to urge the European Union to obtain greater transparency and accountability from the platforms, as well as access to the modes of moderation. Has our country made a plea for that? I realise that this is an international phenomenon, but we must not stand aside. Secondly, the Australian Prime Minister has announced that Australia wants to get rid of anonymity on the platforms and treat them as publishers, so that they can also be held liable. I fear, moreover, that the same problems would be encountered in our country as in relation to the liability of printed media. He also wanted a system of complaints against defamatory remarks, a target which was already mentioned in our resolution. In any case, he summarized it very nicely. He says we should throw the cowards off the Internet. If one has a particular opinion and wishes to express it, one should do so in one's own name. The Prime Minister assumes that this could partially stop polarization. How do you feel about anonymity on social media? What can we possibly do about it or not? My third question stems from my concern about the protection of young people and the Internet. I have already asked questions about this in the past to your colleague, Mrs De Bleeker. One in four Dutch primary schools indicated in a Dutch study on online shaming that children between 10 and 12 years old are confronted with nude images of themselves at school. Sometimes the children shared the images themselves, sometimes the images were secretly made in the sports hall, for example. Anyway, that's huge. The Dutch Minister of Education said that Dutch education is more in need of media wisdom. That's right, but I don't think that's enough. Soon it will be Safer Internet Day, which is why I felt it necessary to raise this issue here in committee. In my opinion, the mental well-being of our young people is really under pressure from social media, because we refer very often to media wisdom but then to little action, although it is not a simple problem. Is it not time to join forces in our country and to call on all those involved in these matters to share many levels of competence in this area, in some sort of state-general, to discuss such problems and to explore how we can better protect our young people from some online practices? In this way, we would respond not only to young people, but also to many parents, because I think that many parents today are concerned about things that happen online, about online bullying behaviour and about certain images that young people are exposed to far too early in their lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u4	Mr Verduyckt, I share your concern about the issues raised. They are very important and also very delicate. They are not just a focus for Belgium, but for the whole world. There is no denying that certain behaviour on social networks can have a strong destructive and psychological effect. The large amount of hate speech on the Internet, radicalisation, phenomena such as fake news and disinformation and online harassment must be combated rigorously and effectively. The fight against such phenomena requires, first and foremost, a strengthening of the obligations of the digital platforms. I therefore agree with Australia's position on this point. What is forbidden in real life must also be prohibited in digital life. In this context, I would like to highlight the work currently taking place at European level under the Digital Services Act (DSA). That European instrument aims to modernise the liability regime for intermediate service providers with a view to ensuring a secure and proportionate legal framework to better combat illegal content online, including hate-sowing and cyber-bullying. At national level, the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities have taken initiatives. I myself strongly support the introduction of digital citizenship courses in compulsory education to raise young people's awareness of cyberbullying and to improve their ability to deal with cyberbullying. At the same time, the DSA aims to strengthen the exercise of freedom of expression. For example, the prohibition of a general supervisory obligation and the conditional exemption from liability maintain two important principles. They are intended to prevent the excessive blocking of content. If content is blocked, either because it is illegal or because it is contrary to the platform's terms of use, the platform will now be obliged to inform users of the precise reasons for blocking, so that they can better understand the platform's decision and, where appropriate, submit a complaint. Each online platform will need to set up an easily accessible internal complaint mechanism. The DSA also provides for the use of alternative dispute resolution. The Directive also introduces a number of new transparency obligations, namely concerning the use of algorithms, online advertising and moderating by the platform. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the new obligations imposed on very large platforms, including the obligation to carry out an annual impact assessment of their services with regard to the potentially negative effects on the exercise of several fundamental rights, including freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, it is true that the problem is a global one. We are probably not the only country to be dealt with. I like a lot of the elements in your answer. I have the impression that you are also taking the concerns very seriously. You are right to say that Australia has a very interesting position. When we talk about this, I sometimes hear colleagues in Parliament objecting that we are looking for a form of censorship or that we want to boycott certain opinions, but that is not the intention. I'm a fan of debates, the more the merrier. What is happening today, however, either pushes the debate away or polarizes too much, or perhaps pushes things into the corners of the Internet, which means that we have absolutely no control over it anymore. In such cases society is also losing party. Those who object to such objections, I think underestimate the mental impact of what is happening, especially in the case of online bullying behaviour. Facebook knows that impact better, sometimes even better than ourselves, but doesn't care too much for the time being. The Digital Service Act to which you refer may be important legislation in this area. I will certainly follow that up, because I hope that there will be some initial solutions to keep the problem within certain limits. I suspect it was not the last time we discussed the subject. Today I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u6	We now come to the questions for Secretary of State Dermine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, there has already been a great deal to do in the meantime around the EUR 5.9 billion allocated from the European Restoration and Resilience Fund. Because Belgium would do better than expected, this amount is shrinking to EUR 4.55 billion. After all, those who do better economically will get less. Of course, we do not know what that will mean for 2022, but it is a bit strange because it is not that Belgium is doing so well in terms of economic growth in relation to the rest of Europe. So we are in danger of losing EUR 1.35 billion. That loss will of course be shared between the federal government and the Länder. What I found particularly striking is that the German Court of Auditors has calculated that Belgium is likely to have to pay EUR 17.4 billion. If we deduct our revenue from that, we would still have to cough up between EUR 11.5 and 12.8 billion. The final amount we receive is uncertain, as I said. Mr. Secretary of State, do you think we've made a good deal with this? A number of relay projects will, of course, not be able to be financed. Will projects therefore be deleted and, if so, on the basis of what criteria? How will they be financed? Finally, which specific projects will be deleted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u8	First of all, best wishes to everyone for the new year. You're absolutely right. A likely reduction in the envelope for Belgium can be expected. This is due to better economic performance than expected when economic forecasts (projections) were made in autumn 2020. The European envelope is divided into two parts: 70% were based on parameters known in autumn 2020 and 30% were variable according to the behaviour of the economy during the covid crisis. The fact is that Belgium is actually doing better than expected and therefore the amount initially estimated at EUR 5.9 billion in grants to Belgium will be lower. It is too early to estimate exactly the amount of the reduction, but this could be significant. The final figures that will allow for an accurate estimate of the amount will only be available in June of this year. A few more months of patience and we'll be set. With regard to your reasoning, on principle, I do not think that one should place oneself in a reasoning that is that of a fair return, that is, how much I give and how much I receive. The European Union is not a ticket distributor and this reasoning is all the more true for the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which is an amount that has been raised at European level regardless of the Member States' contribution. You can be sure that we will not wait passively in the meantime. We have already been able to discuss this issue with the European Commission at our last quarterly meeting on the implementation of the recovery plan, at the end of last year. In particular, we would like to know how projects that would no longer be financed from the FHV will be dealt with in the budget. It would indeed surprise us if the Commission were to punish the Member States for investment projects which they themselves motivated and assessed as being of good quality. At Belgian level, we have had several talks within the federal government, but also with the states. No decision has yet been taken at this stage. The regional governments will have to discuss whether they will finance the projects or whether they will delete some. What is certain, and this is a reasoning that we are trying to hold with all governments, is that higher than expected growth is good news for workers, citizens, self-employed and SMEs. This means that economic activity is better. This is also good news for public finances, since more activities mean more tax revenues, more VAT, etc. Our speech therefore consists in telling the various governments – and that is the position we are trying to defend within the federal government as well – that the impact of higher expected growth is positive for public finances. A priori, therefore, there is room for financing projects elsewhere rather than trying to eliminate projects. In any case, we prefer to be in the current situation with higher expected growth and, consequently, a marginal reduction in the subsidy envelope than in the reverse situation where Belgium would do less than expected with larger subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I understand your reasoning. If we do it economically better, we'll get a few more receipts out of it. You would rather see that than subsidise, because if it falls, it's not so bad, you say. On the other hand, our economic growth is not so much better than in the other European countries. It is true that we have improved, but on the basis of the ranking of European countries, I do not think we are doing so well. If I find that we are in danger of losing an important part of that amount, I regret that. You say that governments will still have to look at what is being deleted, that it is too early for that at the moment and we will know more in June. However, this amount of EUR 1.35 billion does not just fall out of the sky. In my view, therefore, the fact that there will have to be a deletion is already a definite fact. I think you're waiting until June to look at this more specifically. You say that governments will then have to decide what is to be deleted. From the federal government, I think you should do that exercise already, because I certainly do not think it is right to assume that you will retain the full amount. We will certainly follow up on this issue. I think you should start your homework, as we are already sure that we will miss the amount of EUR 1.35 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u10	Mouth masks have become commonplace by now. However, this has not always been evident, given the situation we were in in 2020, when the corona pandemic broke out. Everyone remembers how we had to work with needle and dust to make mouth masks, because there were not enough. The government then issued orders to order mouth masks. Only it turned out, of course, that masks produced here in this country could not compete with the low foreign prices. The government also opted for foreign mouth masks. Last month we were informed that one of those Flemish companies is now forced to move its production line to China. Another producer even stops production. Those people are really disappointed in our government. This brings us back to those strategic sectors, which are very important to keep supply chains here. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to refer to your policy paper. You promised to study a number of strategic sectors, including the pharmaceutical sector, which includes the production of mouth masks. That was very clear in your policy paper. Has the study of these sectors produced any results? Can you give an overview of the state of play? How do you view the departure and cessation of production of a number of Flemish producers of mouth masks? Finally, how can you reconcile government's ambition to be independent in strategic sectors with the reduction of domestic production of mouth masks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u11	Mr Van Lommel, thank you for your very fair question. I have a specific answer on the mouth masks and a general answer on the strategic sectors. Indeed, following the crisis, whether in Flanders or Wallonia, we saw a series of companies reconstructing a mask production capacity. Today, in a series of public procurement calls, we see that even public institutions (hospitals and others) are ordering from international companies, often in Asia, without resorting to our domestic producers who have built this capacity in the urgency of the crisis. There is, therefore, a risk at present to maintain this capacity. What you describe calls for two responses from the public authorities, at Belgian and European level. First of all, at European level, measures are being discussed, such as the carbon adjusted tax, which allows for the cost of CO2 to be included in the transport of masks from abroad, for example. If this cost is incorporated into the price, via a tax at the border, then our masks produced in Europe will be more competitive. Indeed, the difference is often a few hundredths of a hundredths per mask because the cost of externality related to transport is not included. Secondly, we try to pass this message on to the various administrations: it is very important to include environmental and social criteria in public contracts awarded by hospitals in order to give another weighting to the price and thus to encourage local production. It would be the same mechanism as an insurance premium: to be prepared to pay for a strategic good produced next to us a little more expensive because, in doing so, we are paying an insurance premium so that, if necessary, in the event of a crisis, we can have this capacity to produce in Belgium. I come to the more general answer. We have been instructed by the government to coordinate different strategic sectors. This problem is not limited to mouth masks, but also applies to industry, for example for some electronic components. It is a real challenge at European level, because the whole of Europe is confronted with it and because protecting the goods market is a European competence within the framework of the European internal market. The European Commission has already taken several initiatives in this regard. Today, the supply of personal protection products in the EU seems stable without shortages. In addition, Europe launched the HERA project, the European Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority, and the IPCEI project, an important project for the common European health interests. Both initiatives also aim to strengthen the strategic autonomy of Europe and its health industry. They are succeeded by Minister of Health Vandenbroucke and myself, in constant coordination with those responsible for Economics in the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, it is true that hospitals can also apply some social criteria in their tenders. However, this ignores the fact that the production in Flanders is being delocalized from its own mouth masks to China. The production lines are simply moved to the other side of the world from here. That's the world upside down. I believe that we should cherish such production in our own country. I understand that those people, who did everything they could during the covid crisis but now have to move or even close their lines, are disappointed in the government. It's bad to depend on other continents, especially when it comes to strategic goods like mouth masks. I'm sorry about that. Your answer disappoints me a little, as I expected a little more in that regard. What you say about social criteria is true, and I also understand what you say about the European internal market. However, referring to the carbon adjusted tax is in my opinion far from enough to solve solid problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u13	Mr President, first of all I wish the Secretary of State a good year. Mr Secretary of State, the final count of the European envelope for the recovery plan will be calculated next June, but we should receive about EUR 1.35 billion less. During the discussion of your general policy note on 6 December, you reassured all parliamentarians that this announcement of a smaller envelope was an excellent thing, and you abounded in that sense by saying that, for every euro lost, economic growth would potentially make us gain ten! However, this announcement threatens your goal of investing 3.5% of GDP by 2024. If the European budget envelope, the numerator of the equation, decreases and growth increases, i.e. the denominator, you will have to compensate for your investment promises. Mr Secretary of State, what do you expect in addition to the billion planned in the last budget conclave? Can you tell us which projects are likely to be abandoned as a result of the announcement of this reduction in European resources devoted to recovery?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u14	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, the answers are substantially comparable to those given in response to Mr. Van Lommel. Reducing the envelope is a real risk. Final parameters will be known in June 2022 but it is more than likely and almost certain that the envelope will be significantly reduced. The exact parameters will be known in June 2022 and that is when we can make the exact accounts. At this stage, there is not yet a discussion on some projects that would be deleted. This is a discussion that each government must have. We have had informal contacts and some communications have been made in the press, in particular from the Flemish government, which said that irrespective of the reduction in the budget, projects would be compensated from own budgets, which, I think, is a completely coherent approach because higher growth means healthier public finances. There is therefore no reason not to compensate for investment projects. But the responsibility of each of the governments is involved when it comes to whether they operate this transfer mechanism or whether, possibly, certain projects will be reduced, which we obviously do not want for issues of volume of investment and also because all the investments that remain in the RRF at this stage are investments that have passed through the analysis grid of the Office of the Plan, that of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and through the environmental analysis do no significant harm. We therefore have confidence in these investments and that is why they are kept in the plan until the end. It would therefore be a pity for Belgium, as a community, and for the Regions, not to do so. However, you pointed at the equation. Indeed, if growth is higher, the denominator increases and the 3.5% are potentially lower. The calculations should be repeated, but we were a little over 3.5% when we added up the various investment programmes, knowing that we still have uncertainty, in particular about the exact volumes of investment at regional level. This remains to be confirmed by a statistical study and by the exact volumes of investment made by the Regions, mainly in Wallonia, where the volume of investment has been revised upwards as a result of the floods. It will probably be further increased, because the damage is greater than expected. But the effect on the denominator should not prevent us from reaching 3.5%. I say this subject to the quantitative analysis that should be done. In any case, the impact will be relatively marginal, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u15	Thank you, Secretary of State. Good if GDP increases. That must be good news. I listened to your answer and I would have liked you to guarantee that public investment would be increased by the fact that GDP was going to increase, and I did not hear it as a guarantee. Anyway, we'll be behind all this to keep an eye on. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u16	Secretary of State, still concerning the European envelope of the recovery plan, and still according to the article in the newspaper Le Soir, you said that "2022 will be a critical year for the implementation of the recovery plan". The article also states that the Belgian State will have to "show white feet, make concrete progress on its investment projects and implement a series of reforms". Secretary of State, the article talks about 70 duties. We'd like to have an idea of what this is all about. Can you tell us what the criteria used by the Commission to judge the progress of investment projects are? And what are the reforms it recommends to grant its envelope? Finally, we are also talking about involving the social partners. How do you intend to involve the unions? What do you expect from them except an opinion on your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u17	Mr D'Amico, the plan we have submitted to Europe contains 36 reforms, 14 of which at federal level. Each of these reforms is set out in a timetable, with milestones to be achieved on certain dates. That was the basic philosophy of this recovery plan. We had the opportunity to discuss it. Member States receive investment resources in exchange for which they must commit themselves to certain reforms, some of which have already been implemented. I am thinking, for example, of the reform of company cars at the federal level. All these reforms and milestones are available online, in the plan that was submitted to Europe – the famous 757-page document. If you have more specific questions about certain reforms, do not hesitate to ask them; we are at the disposal of Members to answer them. As far as the involvement of the social partners is concerned, we are not just talking about it. Since the beginning of the process, they have been involved, through the intermediary bodies of the Central Economic Council (CCE), which brings together trade unions and employers' organizations, and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD), which brings together a range of associations linked to the defence of the environment and associations that represent young people. For us, it was really important to involve them from the beginning, when designing the plan. It may be a little slower, but the quality of the plan is better when you consult and ask for advice. As an illustration, here are some key steps that have been taken in the process. In November 2020, from the beginning of the plan's drafting, we received own-initiative opinions from the EAC and the CFDD on the main themes to be incorporated into the plan. We have defined the directions and main axes of the plan on this basis. In January 2021, we held hearings with the EAC and CFDD. In February 2021, they gave us advice on the strategic directions of the plan and on investment projects. In March and April 2021, validation opinions were issued by the EAC and the CFDD on investment projects contained in the plan and on reforms. Both Councils were closely involved in the drafting process. We offered them to continue to involve them in the implementation of the plan, and we discussed it with them. Finally, the design of the plan is only the first step. It is known that difficulties are often also in execution and not only in design. In particular, for infrastructure projects in Belgium, it has often been observed that there are either budgetary or temporal slippages. This must therefore be framed as closely as possible. We have offered the two Councils to accompany us in the execution and they have accepted, to our great pleasure. This follow-up in implementation will take the form of an opinion on the various progress reports – which will also be submitted to the members of this committee – and will give rise to the organisation, at least once a year, of an annual colloquium bringing together the social partners and members of the CFDD to evaluate the implementation of the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, I would have liked to have a little more information on the duties set out. I'm also interested in milestones. I'd like to know, in particular, if you're going to get me to work until you're 70. Personally, I'll never make it! Secondly, I am pleased to hear that the social partners are involved. More than an association, I would like it to be not just an advisory opinion. If it is only advisory, it will not necessarily make good progress. But I am already glad that they are being consulted at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, if you have already answered some of my questions, please tell me, I will read it in the report. This question is about how far you stand and how far all the institutions in this country stand, because the relaunch plan is a plan of the many governments in this country. It was remarkable that you released statistics on this in the media. You said that of 85 projects 75% is on schedule. So you seem to have statistics on this. If you have it, can we have it? Can you tell us exactly how that is being followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u20	Mr. Loones, I'm glad to see you. I was terrified that you couldn't be here with us this afternoon. We have worked over the last few months to set up all the reports, with the Commission, which, as I find out every day, is quite an administrative machine. So we have two types of reporting. The first type takes place twice a year and is called claims for payment. You know that we had an initial envelope of $770 million, or 13% of the total envelope, which was paid this summer. This request for payment concerns all milestones and targetts of investment and reform projects, which was done the year before. Depending on what has been achieved, payment of the next instalment is made or not, in part or in whole. These payment requests generate a very intensive follow-up which is carried out by my firm, in connection with a specific administrative unit within the SPF BOSA, which aggregates both the inputs of the regional governments and the federal government, to make the reporting to Europe. This makes the work complex. These payment requests take place twice a year. The first will take place this summer. I'm looking at my collaborator to see if we already have a specific date for the first payment request. It will be in the course of June in my opinion. The second type of reporting is semi-annual. It takes place on 30 April and 15 October. In view of the milestones and targets of the coming year, it examines whether the signals are positive or negative and whether big wars are present, which should be the subject of corrective measures, and if so, whether discussions with the teams should be initiated to correct them. Belgium is ahead of time in this process. We have already had a very informal discussion with the Commission. In fact, most Member States are lagging behind the process, so there has not yet been a formal half-yearly report. We did this informally; in French, we say "for butter". We trained with the European Commission and it was on this basis that we were able to conclude that most of the projects were on trackor completed, and that about 5% of the projects required special attention. But this evaluation is not formal and has not been specifically validated, as will be the case for the next half-yearly report in April. On the other hand, you know that projects are funded at the federal level by the RRF and that a whole series of projects have been validated. There are three projects worth 330 million, in accordance with the decision taken in April. There is also a question of an additional billion for investments. We have chosen – I imagine it will not be for you to displease – to make a single template and reporting for all projects that are part of the federal government's investment programming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, it seems to me a good methodology, with twice an axis is reporting and twice a to be reporting, to see what comes to us. My only appeal is to ensure that Parliament is fully involved in this process in good time, so that this information, ideally before it goes to Europe or is in the press, is brought up here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, as a loyal follower of your Twitter account, I saw that you were referring to a new CEPS study on additionality, in particular on how many new investment projects are emerging from European investment funds. Compared to other governments in Europe, we actually score very well. This means that, according to this study, a lot of new investments are being made by the various governments in this country that would not otherwise have been there, which is beautiful. It naturally stimulates curiosity about how this was calculated. Do you have chips to study this? Secondly, are you paying attention to what other countries have done? Some countries, for example, have kept certain investments waiting and have them paid for by Europe. This may lead to less new investments, but it allows them to be carried out very quickly, because they are already ready. In our country it may be new, which is an advantage, but perhaps at the risk of being introduced a little slower. Is that a risk you're considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u23	Mr President, Mr Loones, like you, I discovered the CEPS study when it was published on January 10, 2022. You know the game of social networks. When an interesting analysis comes out, we like to put it forward. The documents used by the authors for the identification and classification of measures, reforms and investments are documents which are publicly known and which are on the websites of the European Commission and the European Council. We did not interact with CEPS. It is therefore assumed that it was through these documents and their analyses that the work was done. This study is interesting because it teaches us a little about the investment strategies of the different Member States. There is indeed a real tension, a form of trade-off that we have had to deal with in the drawing of the plan with contradictory objectives. There is both a desire for additionality – these must be new projects in relation to what is funded – and for maturity, especially since the Commission specifies that all projects must be implemented in 2026 with very demanding implementation timings. It was found that most Member States had favoured the issue of maturity on additionality. Belgium, for its part, has favoured new projects to avoid recycling and I think we have done the right thing. What makes it possible to manage risk is that, often, they were projects that were considered additional, because they were not budgeted, but had already been studied or allowed, etc. This allows us to control some of the risk of execution. But in fact, in the trade-off between maturity and additionality, we have really positioned ourselves in the middle, which allows us to have a better quality investment programming but which requires our full attention for execution. We must ensure that we are able to meet the deadlines imposed by the Commission, while being certain that projects that were absolutely not mature were not selected, because the credibility criterion in implementation is a criterion that we have applied for the selection of projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u24	This question has perhaps already been raised, and Mr Van Lommel had questions about it. There is potential for less money because of the European Union. Where are the talks between the federal government and the Länder on the distribution of less revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u25	That question was asked twice today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u26	Okay, I'll read the answer in the report. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, since I have just heard Mr D'Amico talk about the reform agenda, I also assume that a large part of your answer is already contained in the answer to him. In short, the various governments in this country have received European funds for investment. In return, we must promise to carry out a number of reforms, particularly in the area of the labour market. However, there are a lot of doubts about the rhythm of these reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u28	That's right! And in parallel with the plan given to the European authorities, the federal government, following the Conclave 2022 that took place this autumn, has also put in place a transition restart plan containing a large number of reforms, such as certain measures related to the labour market. I refer you to my responsible minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne on these issues related to the various legislative and regulatory initiatives that implement these measures currently being debated within the government. The texts will then be submitted to the social partners. I confirm that this is part of the agenda, not only that of the RRF, but also of the discussions that took place on the margins of Budget Conclave 2022, which are ongoing within the government. I can't move any further. I shall repeat again to my colleague and minister responsible, Mr Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask the question today in particular to anticipate your reporting. Just now, I understand that your report is double. You are currently reporting to Europe on the state of play. At two other times, in April and October, you will see if there are any risks of delay. I will look very closely at that last element in your progress report. I understand that we will probably have some clarity on this in April. Your boarding tables are more likely to color orange or red, but we will undoubtedly see that in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, in your policy paper, we have already discussed this during the budget discussion.......................................................................................................................................................... But it is well known that the Commission has a certain agenda and that the French Presidency is at least looking for a small trophy. This is not entirely in line with your timing, because the French Presidency will stop by summer, while the Belgian position will not be coordinated until summer. Mr Secretary of State, what is the state of play? Is there any new information? I have seen that many Member States are sending new finance ministers, I thought eight or ten. The debate has yet to be cleared up in many directions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u31	Indeed, it is an essential debate that will decisively define the future of the European institutions. As you mentioned, there are many new finance ministers across Europe, including in very powerful countries, who have a decisive influence on the line to be followed in Europe. With regard to the Belgian position, it is indeed Minister Van Peteghem who represents Belgium in these discussions. However, he has around him a small group of which I am part to prepare the Belgian position. Initial technical exchanges took place between federal government partners last week on this issue. According to our latest information, the European debate will really open following the publication by the European Commission of its fiscal policy guidance in the spring of this year, theoretically still under the French presidency. We do know how strategic the subject is in France and especially in the context of the French presidential elections to be held in the spring. While we take advantage of the period through the spring to conduct an internal discussion within the federal government, I think it would also be appropriate to coordinate the position with all entities, including federated entities. I have confidence in the progress of the work in order to know the main parameters of the Belgian position at the time when the European guidance will be published in the spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u32	I was walking last weekend and I saw that the daffodils are already starting to sprout. That points to the beginning of spring for me. This may also point to a number of other trends.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u33	The global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic660x.u34	I think spring will be here soon and there will be work on the shelf.
