ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on that? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u3	Prime Minister, for many households, daily difficulties become unbearable. They bear a name that we now know well: inflation and, in particular, rising energy and fuel costs. On your desk and for the past few days, a series of reports have accumulated and I think they converge on at least three points: the need to act immediately for purchasing power, to act on the structural (no longer on the punctual), in a targeted and not generalist way. In other words, it will probably be time to stop with the distribution of one-off cheques, the temporary reduction of VAT applied on energy in the middle of summer; and perhaps also with the distribution of extremely generous proposals from the banks of the majority that propose to run the banknote board to give 25 or 30 000 euros to each other. No! What we need is reforms, i.e. models with expenditures and revenues. We always come back, Prime Minister, to the same questions. What is the state of the fantasy of tax reform? What is the status of the invisible pension reform? What is the status of the fight against tax fraud? I would like to draw your attention to one specific point: inflation is weighing more and more heavily in the household budget, it is the one linked to fuel prices. We all probably know what should be done. The excise duty should be reduced to the European threshold allowed. Do you intend to do it? Are you also considering contacts at European level to see if it is possible to go beyond that? Whether it is on excise duties, on energy or on pensions, it is high time, Prime Minister, that Vivaldi passes the second! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u4	Prime Minister, the bills are running up and people are less left. That's for sure, and we don't need experts to see that. However, they needed two months to come to their findings and draw up a report. Then what's in that report? They note that purchasing power in our country is better protected than in our neighbouring countries. That's good. They add, however, that by the end of the month people should be left with more money and that the excess profits of multinationals should be dealt with. Prime Minister, at a time when a lot of people are struggling, additional purchasing power measures have been put on hold for two months because we were waiting for the results of the experts. We are now finding that the wait has not been very successful and that time has been wasted in particular. What do we know more than two months ago? If we had just been with people for half an hour, we would probably have come to the same conclusions. Indeed, I have heard all the findings of the experts from people who are having a particularly difficult time. Prime Minister, if we look at the measures, the question arises as to what extra we will do. Shall we take measures to protect people from the high invoices or shift that responsibility from us and place them on the people themselves? Do they have to turn down their heating in the winter after they slow down on the highway? Maybe they should buy less food? This may also be a solution. I'm just saying we have to make the right choices. A number of measures such as the VAT reduction, the social tariff and the indexation are simply self-evident. We have to keep it. It's about what we'll do extra. We have to make a choice. We can opt for collective action, doing more to protect the group. For example, we can increase the social rate and ensure that people are left with more. However, we can also opt for individual and patronising measures. I would have liked to have heard from you how you see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u5	Prime Minister, people can't afford life anymore. People are gonna give up. People just see their invoices go all the way up. What are you doing? You order reports from the National Bank, from the OECD, from your experts. That's an interim report. The final report has yet to arrive. What's in those reports? I've been reading those reports. In small print it is written that it is not true that the index protects people's purchasing power enough. The report by the National Bank states in black and white that real wages have been reduced by 2%. No one here knew that. Has anyone here read those reports? Can you confirm that people's sense of losing purchasing power is right and that all the talk that it would be less bad than in other countries is wrong? The people give up by that 2% reduction. However, these reports do not describe the problem of the huge profits of large companies in Belgium. The BEL 20 companies paid 8.17 billion euro dividends this year. We need to get the money there, not people's wages. On Monday there will be a big demonstration in the streets of Brussels. More than 70,000 people will ask for a raise in a Belgium where it can be done. They want the freedom of negotiation. The 1996 law must be changed. Will you listen to the voice of the street Monday, after such a mobilization? I cannot assume that wages remain blocked at 0 %, while billions of profits are being made in many companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u6	Prime Minister, my first thought when I looked at the measures taken by the group of experts was whether this was sometimes a joke. This vivaldi government has kept us and the population waiting for months for a report from a so-called expert group, simply because it is not capable of taking purchasing power strengthening measures. Georges-Louis Bouchez of the MR called you another screw-up this morning. Looking at the content of the report, I see measures as 100 kilometers per hour driving on motorways, promoting green investments and raising energy tax again in the near future. These are all measures that will not help our people. It really is stew in a Belgian way, covered with a green sauce. The expert group seems to be a gang of green jerks, whose party of the same color has held the pen. For example, I do not read about structural reforms of burdens, where people are left net more, or what we need to do to dry up inflation higher than elsewhere, in order to avoid getting caught in a wage price spiral. Nor do I read what we need to do now to increase purchasing power immediately. You've always denied the problem, then transfer it to an expert group, which ended with a sisser. We've lost precious time. Will you stop working with this expert group and start with a white sheet, together with your large army of cabinet employees, to develop measures that clearly make a difference in terms of purchasing power?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u7	Prime Minister, the measures recommended by the expert group are a good start. They also confirm that the measures taken by this government to strengthen purchasing power were excellent choices. However, we have questions about some of the measures proposed. A speed limit of up to 100 kilometres per hour is excellent for the Brussels ring, but we wonder if this is the best purchasing power measure imposed on all motorways in Belgium and at all times. Greener cars and a more economical driving style seem more important to us. It is good that the extension of the measure on the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity is suggested and endorsed, and that social measures, with the social tariff, should be extended where appropriate to middle-class people. It is a good thing to invest in renewable energy for businesses and to encourage isolation for families. However, we regret that the proposal does not include the reduction of excise duty to the European minimum at the pump. We continue to argue for this reduction in excise duties. Colleagues, the trees do not grow to the sky. The sum of all measures must be affordable, so that we do not forward the invoice to the next generation. The sum of measures should also not result in certain categories that need it less benefiting most. We are in favour of maintaining wage indexation. However, indexing tax rates will benefit people who need it less than people who absolutely need it. Mr Prime Minister, can you advocate measures that are temporary and structural and, above all, aimed at those who need them most, especially the middle class?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u8	Madam Chair, Prime Minister, this Wednesday, the panel of economists mandated by your government submitted an interim report. It makes a series of proposals to address the purchasing power crisis, which is the primary concern of our citizens. The main themes are energy prices, wage indexation, taxation and the budget. The proposals put forward largely echo the ideas that my political group is defending:1. Increasing the employment rate is the best way to improve purchasing power and competitiveness. 2. Creating the government deficit is not an option. 3. In the field of energy taxation, less VAT is needed, but more excise duty is needed with a reverse ratchet. As far as labour taxation is concerned, this is what needs to be given priority rather than the distribution of new cheques. On the issue of wages, I am pleased to hear that independent bodies such as the OECD and the expert group now do not in any way challenge the 1996 Act. As for the automatic wage indexation mechanism... [[Brouhaha]] We seem to have the same opinion! As for the automatic wage indexation mechanism, which is positive in terms of protection of purchasing power, it would also mark certain limits. In fact, indexation takes place differently according to trades and sectors. This has certain limitations. Prime Minister, on the 1996 Act, can we now consider the debate to be closed? On the reform of the indexation system, what do you think of the suggested track on temporality that would offer more equality between workers? Have you asked the experts to budget their measures? Finally, what deadline have you set for the implementation of the selected proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u9	Mr. Prime Minister, you have called in the help of experts. Did they help you? I do not think so, because I note that the majority groups have not come closer together. Indeed, as Mr Depraetere points out, you have lost time. That was predictable, because in the meantime other unordered reports from the OECD and the National Bank conclude the same thing, which the governor of the National Bank essentially summarized: "The money is gone." Prime Minister, you're out of money because you're the leader in deficit. Belgium is the only country that will not achieve a millimetre improvement in terms of deficits in 2022 and 2023. Other countries will do better while we are on the ground. Who are the victims of the policy where you spend money that you don't actually have? Those are the middle class, the business community, which is losing competitiveness, and the government. I refer to a statement by you in a committee last week that tomorrow's purchasing power is today's competitive position. During your two years of policy, it has declined by 5%. The government doesn't exist. The government is like a mailbox, where the taxpayer is collapsing money you're spending again. When I sum up all these reports, the victims are the middle class, the government reads: the middle class and competitiveness read: the middle class. Three times you abandon the middle class. After all the expert reports in which the Chamber has not even been consulted, we have to deal with what is reported in the press - I ask you what you will do for the middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, unlike the previous speaker, the expert report is an opportunity as far as we are concerned. After all, the report confirms that the purchasing power of people who fall out of the boat is a problem in our country. They are faced with towering energy bills and expensive shopping carts in the supermarket. There are people in our country who are not adequately protected by indexation. The report puts the finger on the wound and insists that the government get to work on it. That is what we expect of you, Prime Minister. It is also a plea for reform. We are not asking for bricoling, not messing around in the margins, but for real reforms where you are not avoiding taboos. The report enrols in a green energy transition. It is once again a report that calls crystal clear green measures social measures. Energy savings, the reduction of speed on motorways and less subsidies for commercial vehicles should be used. The report enrolls in a green story. At the same time, short-term measures are also needed. The extension of the social energy tariff is urgent. Overprofits from energy companies benefiting from consumers' expensive energy bills are no longer acceptable. Working on a tax on that, Minister Van der Straeten is working on it every day. The index does not protect everyone and that is why we want to propose a tax credit for people with an ordinary income, with an ordinary job, for the lower middle class who is also faced with sky-high invoices. The government must also protect people with a gross income of less than EUR 3,500. Prime Minister, I would therefore ask you to embrace the report. Purchasing power measures are needed; green measures are social measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u11	Prime Minister, the situation of a large number of citizens is extremely precarious. Their end-of-months are increasingly difficult to achieve. This is also the case for many small and medium-sized enterprises and independents who now face an impossible equation, combining the increase in wage costs with the increase in energy bills. Strong measures are no longer urgent, but urgent, so that our citizens can live with dignity from their income and that employment is maintained and stimulated, so as to avoid many bankruptcies. Every morning, on the radio and in the newspapers, the great promises of your government parties are in every direction. Yet, none is followed by effect. Are we talking about a tax reform to raise pocket wages and boost employment? Nothing! Stronger and more targeted aid is proposed, in particular with a view to extending the social tariff to the middle classes? Nothing! A correction is announced to ensure that condominiums – that is, 2.5 million people, often disadvantaged – benefit from the assistance that other citizens have been able to obtain? Still nothing! Is support for SMEs and self-employed people to cope with the shock of wage and energy costs? Nothing! We have also heard some parties of your majority announce the involvement of large companies that have made indecent over-profits during this crisis. There again, nothing! Oh, yes! I forgot: 30 000 euros promised to all young people. Nothing, either! The days and months pass, in a great hustle and bustle, which punctuate many statements that arouse hope and much expectation. How does your government react? Simply by inertia and inability to decide. Prime Minister, when are you going to put an end to the treacherous statements and procrastination and finally decide (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u12	Prime Minister, the Socialist Party has been calling for a Social Ministerial Committee for months. We are calling for this because it is absolutely necessary to respond to the social emergency and the crisis of purchasing power that affects all citizens of our country. We Socialists have more than ten concrete measures on the table, concrete measures that you know, I am sure. Here are some of them: making VAT permanent at 6% on gas and electricity without forgetting the consumers of fuel oil, persevering the extended social tariff but also creating a special energy tariff to support the middle class, increasing the low- and middle-income pocket wage through taxation. These are concrete measures to which the report of the Committee of Experts, which was mandated by your Government and which spoke yesterday to unveil this report, does not object. There is no doubt that competitiveness must be kept in mind, but today, more than ever, Prime Minister, the priority remains the purchasing power. Of course, you have to listen to the experts but you must also and above all listen to people on the street, and certainly not the indecency of the Voka when it proposes an index jump. How dare he? Prime Minister, have you seen the survey of a French-language weekly showing that even if support has been provided, citizens need more support, and that we need to go further? My group continues to repeat this in this rostrum and elsewhere every week. Prime Minister, on Monday, the workers will be on the streets at the call of the unions – proof that the situation is getting worse and that we must act. So I will only have one question: when are you going to convene a Council of Ministers on purchasing power and social emergency?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u13	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unlike most of my colleagues this afternoon, I am not just going to talk to you about purchasing power. I will first and foremost talk to you about the power to live with dignity. Buying and consuming is not everything in life, and fortunately. We must first find housing, be able to feed ourselves, provide for our basic needs, but also provide for our family, have leisure time where possible. Today, many of our fellow citizens, even when working full - time - even when a couple are working full - no longer know how to tie both ends. I'll talk to you about this urgency to be able to live with dignity. It requires our full attention. The government has taken several strong steps in this area, and today an expert report draws further leads. You have summoned and appointed these experts. These are quite interesting avenues: better protection of households, with an extension of the social energy tariff to the lowest middle classes; a strengthening of indexation so that there is no more injustice and that some must not wait until next January, for example, to benefit from indexation; keeping the course of the green transition: isolating better and more, getting out of fossil fuels, reducing subsidies to carbon fuels. All of this is in this report. Frankly, your economists have taken strong steps and directions, at that level anyway. In addition, the NBB also submitted a report. We have several reports right now. The BNB tells us that it validates the option of taxation of the over-profits of energy operators; Minister Van der Straeten will shortly come before Parliament and the government with a text, and that is a very good thing. Finally, icing on the cake, the OECD, which is far from being the centre of study of Ecolo-Groen, actually advocates in its last report to reduce labour taxation, which is a very good thing, and to increase the pressure, especially on capital, by considering "to set up a progressive scale for the taxation of all forms of capital income". I have only one question, Prime Minister: what are you going to do quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. It is clear that our country and our continent are facing an unprecedented situation. 'Unseen' is sometimes used as a term, when it comes to something worse than expected. However, the combination of circumstances, namely the combination of pandemics, the confrontation with a war on our continent and an energy crisis, is something we rarely face. The current government has taken measures from the outset to ensure that the shock can be cushioned. I would remind you of a total of EUR 3 billion, specifically to absorb the shock of the energy bill. In parallel with this, the government has decided in budgetary control that it would not be bad to make a more in-depth analysis of the real situation and of the more fundamental reforms that we should carry out, except for the measures to cope with the shock. The interesting thing about such an approach is that we get facts and an objectification. We also get dates that ignore the opinions that are sometimes put forward here. Some might find that disturbing. Some prefer uncertainty and try to push away the facts put forward by the National Bank of Belgium and the experts. Allow me to look at the conclusions of the experts. There are a number of conclusions. Let me quote them. The purchasing power of those who work in our country is well protected, much better than in any European country. In 2022, purchasing power in the euro area fell except in our country, where it stabilises and even progresses slightly. Those are objective facts. That is what the National Bank of Belgium says. Thanks to the measures in force, I repeat, thanks to the measures in force, Belgian households are now better protected than our neighbours. Targeted measures, such as the social tariff, are even very effective and offer very good protection for households and low incomes. I'm not saying it: it's the National Bank, it's the experts who say it. That's right! Mr Van Lommel, we have not waited. We have not wasted any time, but we have taken measures from the outset and the National Bank of Belgium says that these measures are effective. The government does that, it does not leave people in the cold and takes measures that help people. However, I will not give a selective reading of the report of the National Bank of Belgium. The bank and the experts say the system has a cost. We're not blind to that. The system, especially indexation, weighs heavily on entrepreneurs and small self-employed people, who, on top of that, face another problem, namely the unlikely shortage of labour in our labour market. We can make everything ideological, but if the schools are not able to find enough teachers today, can it not be ideological debate? If care doesn't find enough care providers today, isn't that an ideological debate? If entrepreneurs leave projects in the fridge today because they know they won't find people to realize them, so that we don't realize a lot of prosperity, which can translate into social protection that we don't realize, I hope that in the hemisphere they won't say that's something ideological one doesn't support. An activity rate of 80% is stated in all government agreements of our country. I therefore believe that it is absolutely essential for the governments to work together on this issue, and that is why the federal government has decided in recent months on a number of measures which are now being implemented in order to find a solution to this problem. For example, we ensure that people who fill in a bottleneck job can retain part of their unemployment allowance and that people who come from a region where there is a larger labour reserve and who go to a region with lower unemployment receive an additional premium. We have taken these measures. One of the first slopes that the National Bank of Belgium puts forward is the adoption of additional measures in the field of the labour market. It is clear that we must tackle the purchasing power problem together with the tight labour market. Both of them are tied together. Madam President, I would like to have two more minutes. How do we proceed with that? The experts have come up with an interim report and they will complete that report within two weeks. Pistes are pushed forward and the government takes up these preliminary slopes and examines which of them are relevant. However, it must be clear that experts must objectivate and provide us with pistes, but it is of course up to politics to make decisions. It is up to politics to set priorities. It is up to politics to make clear which direction we want to take. What has become clear with this report is that the measures that had to be taken very quickly, in order to protect people, have also been taken effectively. Does this mean that we should not take additional measures when we see that certain groups are falling out of the boat? I didn't say that at all. When one sees that there are pain points, one has to deal with them. However, at times like this, when there are many uncertainties, one must also be able to offer certainties. This report is something we can build on, to further protect people from that shock but also to fundamentally reform, to prepare our country for the future and to ensure that we can create prosperity and thereby further support our social security. I take this report to heart. It must encourage us to move forward with the policies we have shown so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u15	Prime Minister, I admit I'm pretty bluffed because you've just spoken six minutes and you haven't said anything! It's quite extraordinary! No one tells you that nothing has been done, no one tells you that this government has done nothing. But we still expected something else from you. You spent six minutes and ten seconds ginning up what you've already done. You quoted the National Bank for your own satisfaction as we asked for more information on the deadlines, on the measures, on what we can expect. We have none of this! You've been able to talk for more than six minutes so you can't say anything. It's a political talent in itself, but I know you have a lot more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u16	Prime Minister, the challenges are enormous, but we do need to have a fair debate. No other government has done so much for the purchasing power of the population, but we have to recognise that the challenge has become much greater in the meantime. That's what the report shows. For Forward, it is important that choices are made now and that knots are cut through. The time has come, the options are on the table. Above all, let us not repeat what happened during the VAT debate. Then the solution had been ready for many weeks and some still felt it was necessary to palate over it for a long time. The options are there, we can make a decision, and that must be done quickly. For Forward, this should mean that people will have more left at the end of the month, that corporate profits will be dealt with and that the social tariff will be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u17	Prime Minister, you have not answered any questions, and certainly not the question of wages, which you systematically avoid in the debate. You are stifling the debate, while you know that this is the main demand – the demonstration of next Monday – of the trade union organisations. They want to allow for significant salary increases. Today, the National Bank's report indicates that real wages have fallen by 2%. You deny the number. The reporters were going to cross-check the information. It is well stated in the report of the National Bank: decrease of 2%. In addition, Monday's protest has as its first watchword – and I say it to the socialist comrades, the Green comrades who would like to participate in Monday's protest: welcome of course. The more we are, the stronger we are and the more we can move forward, but no hypocrisy! Interview with Thomas Dermine today in the press. Thomas Dermine, Secretary of State PS: "The Belgian model is interesting because it is predictable. Automatic indexation provides a minimum threshold and the 1996 Wages Act capped wage increases. One protects purchasing power, the other protects competitiveness. We have a socialist secretary of state who defends the 1996 law! That's not right! For Monday's protest, we want to review the 1996 law!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u18	Mr Alexander, you have fooled the people for months with a so-called expert group that lives in another world and writes worthless reports. You know what I'm gonna do with that report? This is what I do with it! (Mr Van Lommel tears a sheet of paper and throws it on the floor.) It's not worth anything. Do you really think that people can fill their shopping cart by slowing them down on the motorway, promoting green investments and increasing VAT on energy again? You do nothing while the water is on people's lips. They just can't take it anymore. That is all because your government members do not agree and because you do not have a red cent in cash to take real measures that strengthen purchasing power, all because the Belgian system is as rotten as weeks-old apple sauce. Damn it, Prime Minister, do something for the people. Bouchez is right for once, you're a fuck-up. [[(Rummer]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u19	May I ask you to take your paper, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u20	Mr Van Lommel, if that sheet of paper was the report, you have not even read the report. Prime Minister, you were right to point out the effectiveness of the measures already taken by the government. Nevertheless, I repeat my plea from last week. We agree, the best purchasing power measure is more people working and people working longer. This presupposes that we finally approve the agreed employment deal, in any case before the summer. This presupposes that we pursue even more policies tailored to the regions than we have done so far. More asymmetry. This also presupposes that we take pension measures. This also presupposes that we reform taxes for the benefit of the working class. Mr Prime Minister, you have rightly pointed it out: today's labour shortage requires all hands and all heads. We have to reward them, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u21	Prime Minister, rising interest rates and inflation will hurt citizens' portfolios! A road map, which remains to be discussed, is at your disposal. Increasing the employment rate is the best way to improve purchasing power and competitiveness. In the area of wage indexation, all workers must be placed on an equal footing. Everyone's entitled to it, it's normal, but all at the same time, would be fairer! The need for the 1996 law is confirmed – and that is a good thing. Finally, it is important that the new measures which must be taken as soon as possible should be part of the sound budgetary prudence advocated by the experts. We still have to raise our sleeves and take action!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u22	One thing you certainly learned as Prime Minister at Vivaldi: picking up shrapnel. Apparently, that's something you've specialized in. Prime Minister, you say facts. I see the interpretation of all your colleagues from the government, except the Vld, because they have not yet received the report; all others have intervened and they read it all differently. The fact is that what you boast about has been paid with money you don't have. Your policy lives on the poof, as it is called. If the experts say: we have a good idea, drive less fast on the auto strade, that raises money, then I can also write an expert report. Shower at least with two, never eat hot food and do not travel. That too is a huge saving. However, we expect a little more from experts. If there is something going too fast, not so much the car on the motorway, but your budget deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, some groups have spoken with great contempt about experts and their reports. That's a bit of an illustration of this time maybe. We live in political times where it's popular to run experts. We saw the same thing during the corona crisis. When we see that a colleague here has symbolically torn up an expert report, we know that right-wing populism, extreme right-wing populism, is also within these walls. I am pleased, Prime Minister, that you have defended the methodology of an expert report and the fact that experts can help policy. This government has already been able to make difficult decisions and it will still be able to make difficult decisions, I am sure. Know that the purchasing power of certain income groups is under severe pressure. In the coming weeks, a breakthrough will be needed within the government. Let this report be an important inspiration for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u24	Prime Minister, your answer is the same as you have been giving us for months now. I sometimes feel that you take the same card every week to come back to Parliament with a form of permanent incantation without seeing actions again and again. Yet we hear things! When you tell us today that the Belgians' purchasing power is best protected, this is an average. Let me tell you how the averages hide very different realities. These averages ignore the situation of citizens who have terribly difficult endings of months. Several parties in your government completely minimize the extremely difficult equation of some independents and some SMEs. I think everyone's tired of promises in the air. Every day, we promise them the moon. A government is supposed to govern! Prime Minister, listen and act!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u25	Prime Minister, I have heard a lot in your answer, but unfortunately I have not heard that you will urgently convene a social kern to take the necessary steps. It can no longer be tolerated that the price per litre of fuel is more than two euros for workers who have to travel with their vehicle every day. We need to intervene on the energy bill. You recalled the steps that have been taken. However, it must be noted that they are not sufficient. Of course, 6% VAT must be maintained on gas and electricity, which are essential and essential products. I will end with the invitation of Comrade Raoul, who invites the Socialists to participate in the mobilization action on Monday. Please, Comrade, that we do not need the PTB to be, on Monday, alongside the unions! I must remind the PTB that when the unions asked us to lower the VAT on electricity, we did! When we asked to increase the minimum pension to 1,500 euros, we did! When we asked to increase the means of wages, we did so too! And, if you were present, a few days ago at the FGTB's anniversary convention, they said that the counterpower (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u26	Mr Prévot, your time has expired! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you. I believe that the experts' recommendations are indeed clear. I, together with my group, want to support a whole series of leads that I have cited. It is now important to seal agreements and to continue to reform. That's what you've done, that's what we've done with this government: to make strong agreements in terms of the social price of energy, in terms of dealing around employment – we need quality jobs for those who don't, and opportunities exist – as well as for fairer taxation, greener taxation linked to climate goals. This government, this coalition must continue to reform. That is what we see as politics. These reforms must improve people's daily lives. It is on this point that we expect you in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u28	Minister, we feel somewhat like we're reliving a nightmare. The press informs us that Europe has become the epicentre of the contamination of monkey smallpox, since it now reaches 80% of the world's contamination. WHO is right to report on measures to raise awareness and limit viral spread. On Tuesday, you participated in a Council of European Ministers of Health, which decided to order 110 000 vaccines to be delivered this month. As the summer approaches, there will be a period of festivals and close contacts. Minister, have you ever drawn up a plan to stop the spread of the virus and to inform the public? It has been demonstrated during our work in a special committee covid that information, awareness-raising, and the fight against fake news are essential. Most recently, passengers were identified on a train as carriers of the virus. This can lead to a panic effect, which must be countered. Will Belgium, through the European Union, order doses of vaccine and have them delivered? Are you going to launch a vaccination campaign? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u29	Thank you, Mrs Gilson. Your time has been up for eight seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u30	Minister, between the tabling of my question in early June and today, we have moved from a dozen cases of monkey pox to more than 50 infected people. Yesterday afternoon, the pre-alert phase of the medical intervention plan was activated in Ghent after three commuters carrying the disease were reported. It has been said: high fever, rash, crustal formation are the main symptoms. Most often, they are benign; the patient usually heals spontaneously after two to three weeks. For WHO, however, the magnitude of this epidemic poses a real risk. Europe is indeed the largest and most widely reported geographically outside the endemic areas of West and Central Africa. According to WHO, the more the virus circulates, the more it expands its reach, the more it will be implanted in nonendemic countries. Mr Minister, the strategy is unfortunately familiar to us, but it is immutable: we must test, trace, isolate and vaccinate. This will be my first question: what about today's strategy to control the number of contaminations? In a notice issued this Tuesday, the Supreme Council of Health recommends vaccination for people who have not been vaccinated against smallpox in their childhood. He also advises people who have been exposed to the virus to be vaccinated within four days of exposure. This will be my second question: is there sufficient strategic stock of vaccines? What measures are envisaged to limit the spread of the virus at major gatherings this summer? Finally, the covid will have shown us enough: we must communicate, inform the population and young people in particular. That's essential! Again, are information campaigns planned? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u31	Minister, yesterday there was an alleged incident involving monkey pox on the train in Ghent. There are no conclusions yet, but we note that there are 1,600 diagnosed diagnoses worldwide today. The World Health Organisation is somewhat concerned about this, although it is not panicked. They come together on an emergency committee to determine whether this really is an international dangerous situation. At the same time, the same World Health Organisation says that our society is less prepared for a pandemic than it was two years ago. In the United Kingdom, the monkey pox virus has been detected in a child. This presupposes a certain level of vigilance, because the virus can have serious consequences for children. The researchers there also indicate that the pressure on the healthcare system, which is already high, could increase significantly. You communicated that vaccines would be bought. Initially, there were about 625 people. Germany has bought five times more. How do you explain this difference? What advice is that based on? The opinion of the RAG states that there should be a step-by-step scaling-up. Have you provided for the contract you can order? You have also indicated that there is a strategic stock of smallpox vaccines. Have you ensured that these vaccines have been properly stored, that the expiry date is correct and that we have enough? After all, you know that we have a certain history in this area. There are few therapies, but can you do the therapies that are provided for our patients? I have one last question. The passengers on yesterday's train have to wait until tomorrow for their results. Can peripheral labs detect monkey pox today via PCR?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u32	Colleagues, to date, there have been 52 confirmed cases: 24 in Flanders, 24 in Brussels and 4 in Wallonia. These are men who have had close physical contact with an infected person. Only one person was hospitalized. Of course, we are following this situation very closely and, even if the risk to the general population is assessed as low, on the basis of current scientific information, since the cases, whether here or elsewhere in Europe, are often linked to an event, the ECDC has published with the WHO recommendations for health authorities with regard specifically to the events of this summer. That is a first important point. We will indeed implement these recommendations from the ECDC and the World Health Organisation in practice. Together with our Belgian Risk Management Group, we will ensure that these recommendations are disseminated to target groups in healthcare, target groups in the population and, of course, to the Communities, which play an important role in sensitisation. Those recommendations, which focus on what happens in the summer, revolve around three things. Firstly, there are recommendations to the authorities to review the planned events and the main partners so that they can contact the organisers in advance. The caregivers are also informed about this. It will also ensure that good information is available to all. Secondly, there will be specific advice for the organisers of these events, on communication, hygiene and so on. Thirdly, there is a very large section with recommendations regarding communication with participants, via social media, the event's website and so on. For international events, it is recommended to align with other countries, for example through the ECDC. We will, of course, do the same. As far as vaccines are concerned, we have already purchased 3,000 doses. Currently, 200 doses are available, which makes it possible to put into practice the recommendations received, i.e. to use them prophylacticly in the case, for example, of caregivers who would have been confronted with a situation of high risk contact with a patient. In this case, and if we act in time, this vaccine can be used very usefully. That is the policy we are following. With the 3,000 doses purchased, which represent our share of joint purchasing at European level, we believe that we can apply these directives. Mrs Depoorter, you referred to a study in the United Kingdom. That was actually about a clinical presentation of seven cases of monkey pox, before the relevant outbreak. You were right to point out the importance of children. We absolutely must avoid contamination in this group. In that study, it is recommended to further investigate the use of the medicine Tecovirimat. I think that's what you were thinking. The problem is that the medicine has only recently been approved by the EEA in the context of the treatment of orthopox viruses. We are looking at how to buy this medicine at European level and make it available in the Member States, but we are not that far. The problem is, if we do not yet have it at our disposal in Europe, we will not yet be able to use prospective studies. We must, of course, keep a close eye on the issue and let it move forward. The British study says that we do not yet know much about what to do to follow up on the virus. That indeed confirms the need for research. We have not yet started a formal investigation in Belgium; we must certainly do that additional investigation. Let me summarise briefly the measures: we need to focus on events in the coming summer; we need to disseminate the necessary information for organisers, care providers and the public; we need to involve the Communities, establish international contacts, use the vaccines purchased properly and ensure that, at European level, we have any useful medicines, even if there is still a need for research.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. We saw in the crisis of the covid that information and the fight against fake news was essential. I am pleased to hear that you have taken this case in arms-to-body and that you are acting in the area of vaccine control and awareness-raising. Thank you for keeping us informed and continuing in this direction so that our young people can spend a serene summer, in complete freedom, with all these festivals that are about to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u34	Minister, thank you for sharing the material in your possession today. You tell us that the risk is low, but when we talked about covid more than two years ago, we also thought the risk was low. Vigilance must therefore remain in place. You have paid particular attention to communication. This is an essential point when we know that during the crisis of the covid, it has sometimes been lacking. You will have to be able to communicate the right information to the right people, but you are well aware of it, which will reassure us. The strategic stock of 3,000 vaccines seems to you to be sufficient at the moment, and as far as drugs are concerned, further research is still needed before they can arrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u35	Mr. Secretary, you have already given half an answer. I very much hope that you will not be doing half of the work, as in the special committee responsible for investigating Belgium's approach to the COOVID-19 epidemic. You say you can't do much because of a lack of information. There's a lot you can do. You did indeed order vaccines, but you did not answer the question of whether you could order additional vaccines if necessary. You also did not answer the question of whether you checked whether your strategic stock is in order. You know well enough that this strategic stock was identified as a problem in the Covid Committee. That was one of the recommendations of the special co-vid committee. Another recommendation from the same committee was that it should be possible to detect a pandemic virus decentrally when needed. We have repeatedly said that the central labs have their merits, but when it is necessary to scale up to peripheral clinical labs, one must be able to do so immediately. Again, people have to wait 24 to 48 hours before they are diagnosed. You're not doing well. I hope it will not be necessary to scale up, but at the moment I am (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u36	Minister, 'all punishments must be carried out' could be a quote from the party programme of Flemish Interest, but no, it was in the government statement. In the meantime, this punitive promise, which, as you know, we have been able to support, has been watered down several times. It went from "all punishments will be served, including the short of 15 days" to "there are no detectives to detect and prosecute different forms of serious crime" to "the entry into force of the law which regulates the punishments under three years is postponed for the twelfth time and the sentences under six months will never be carried out again," to now end with "the government wants to release prisoners six months earlier." These are all statements, Minister, which give a rather curious interpretation of your justified announcement that you wanted to make justice more criminal. What was initially introduced as a corona measure to respond to the capacity problems in prisons now threatens to become a permanent reality. After all, we have heard that you are going to the Council of Ministers on Friday with a draft law stating that some prisoners will receive a six-month penalty reduction. Of course, this measure does not apply to, for example, sexual offenders or terrorists, which would be lacking. This way you really make a caricature of the execution. First you do all kinds of great announcements.. even penalties of 15 days would be executed... to end now in a low point. However, Vivaldi would not be Vivaldi if there were no disagreement about this either. CD&V does not agree on the basis of the coalition agreement, your sister party is a bit more subtle and refers to your statements. I have two questions for you, Minister. Is there a deal? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u37	Minister, the security of society and the execution of punishment are the core tasks of a government and you are competent to do so. When we debate this, that happens sometimes, you say that I have to deal with your actions. I'd like to put your words and your actions side by side. There are plenty of words, ladies and gentlemen. For example, you say: "We will carry out all the punishments, including the short sentences. It's over with impunity!" There are announcements at the flesh. But then there are the actions. As far as the implementation of the short sentences is concerned, we did not reach 1 December, nor did we reach 1 April. It may be before September 2022 and in part for 2023. The sentences up to six months we apparently drop. Meanwhile, there are figures that show that the longer punished under Vivaldi are getting out faster and faster. Furthermore, your bill on penalty discount will be discussed in the nuclear cabinet tomorrow. Apparently, the solution is to release all criminals who have been in prison for a while and therefore give them a free penalty discount. We've been hammering it for weeks and months. That is not a new fact, we already know that for a while. Yesterday, however, the journalists finally realised that what you are saying is not always the same as what you are doing. Not only the journalists have noticed that, but also the MR and CD&V now think that penalty discount goes too far and say that they do not want to apply it. But where have you been the last few weeks? After all, that is not a new design, and we have known it for a long time. I really thought we were the only ones from the opposition who fought for the execution of punishments and of your coalition agreement. What about the government agreement, Minister? Tomorrow, that bill will be put on the table in the nuclear cabinet. Will you push ahead and give a penalty discount or will you listen to the MR and CD&V? If you push ahead, Minister, will you really go into history as the Minister of announcements? Are you finally going to do what you've always promised?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u38	Madam President, Minister, you have announced a measure which will temporarily release certain prisoners and not everyone six months before their sentence. Colleagues, this is not a new measure. The measure was already taken in 2020 and 2021 during the corona period. Mr. Secretary, why do you do that? You do that, of course, to relieve the pressure on the prison system. That pressure was undoubtedly there during the corona period. She's here again today and she's very high. In your capacity as Minister, you are responsible not only for making the living conditions of the detainees acceptable, but also for bringing the working conditions of the staff and the management to an acceptable level. So I fully understand that something must be done in the short term. Colleagues, the measure is not a right but a favour. It'll be the prison director who decides. It will also be subject to conditions. The measure applies only to certain target groups. Minister, I had a few questions for you for the sake of clarity for Members of Parliament. Firstly, can you give us a clear picture today of the current overpopulation and the current shortage of capacity? Secondly, the measure was introduced in 2020 and 2021. Have you evaluated the measure? Can you tell us if there were any problems with that target group that was released in the past? Thirdly, most people believe that after a third of their sentence, all of the convicts are already released in this country. The figures contradict that. We note that 70% of prisoners remain in prison until the end of their sentence. Can you explain that? Finally, the most important question is the following. Can you tell us what structural measures you are currently taking or what you are working hard on today, in order to solve the problem of the capacity shortage, which has existed in this country for decades, even in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u39	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, allow me to begin with a fact. The MP with the longest record of service, a member of my party, started his career in 1980 with Herman Vanderpoorten, then Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice then referred to the overpopulation of prisons as the biggest problem he faced. We are 42 years later now, and that problem still exists. Each Minister of Justice is confronted with it, and thus with the scandalous consequences of overpopulation, degrading conditions, ground sleepers, multiple people on one cell and currently more than 700 interned in prisons. It is therefore the moral duty of every Minister of Justice to take action. All my predecessors have also taken measures, such as grace, electronic supervision without detention, or, under the Swedish Government, alternately one week in prison and one week out of prison. An ultimate measure was the non-implementation of short sentences. All these measures are necessary to control the problem of overpopulation. I too am faced with this problem today. There are 9,500 places for more than 11,000 inmates. Doing nothing would be irresponsible, which is why it is my moral duty to take action. I'm taking a measure that I admit is a difficult decision. To certain inmates I give the opportunity to be released six months before the end of the sentence under conditions, indeed. Mrs Dillen, that is not impunity, because those people are doing most of their time. Mrs De Wit, it is not a penalty discount either, because there are clear conditions attached to it. It's about inmates with a maximum sentence of ten years, it's not about sex offenders, it's not about terrorists, it's not about illegals. Of course, people are not allowed to commit new crimes, because whoever does, goes back to prison. Exactly the same decision was approved in the Chamber in 2020 and 2021. On 9 April 2020, an overwhelming majority of the Chamber approved this measure, including the N-VA Group, Mrs De Wit. That is the reality. You will replicate that it was because of corona, but the problem of corona is the problem of overpopulation, of too many people concentrated too much in one place. That is why we are making the same decision today, because it did not cause any significant problems for the 636 people who were released on parole. Is this measure so problematic? The conditional release after a third of the sentence has been in our country for 100 years. This is, moreover, inherent in a humane and effective policy of punishment. Why am I taking the measure? I do that because I want to see the short sentences implemented from 1 September. Why is that so important? I want to avoid people who start with small crime and are not punished committing more and more serious criminal acts. That's why I'm continuing my plans for a better sentence. The measure fits into a much wider picture, in which we build and expand new capacity, with 700 additional places, where we accompany prisoners from day one, making a new Criminal Code applicable, making prison time the ultimate remedy, 6 months or a year, and ensuring a more humane execution through the detention homes. I would like to dwell on the difficult and courageous decision taken by Mr Van Peel, who has called for cooperation rather than the blame on each other. May I repeat that call here? Mr De Wit, of your group, mayors and ships from Lubbeek, Edegem, Aartselaar and Kapellen are part of it. Tell me in which municipality there may be a detention house, then together we can put an end to impunity and withdraw that measure together. Colleagues, I will conclude my speech. There is no miracle solution for the overpopulation. If there is, tell me. In any case, I will always oppose the execution of a cheap slogan, like lock them up and throw away the key! Die fout, lock them up and throw away the key, maken wij al veertig jaar lang. That is why we must now opt for a different approach, a humane approach, a step-by-step approach. That is the only way to break the spiral of criminal inflation, the recurrence and the overpopulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u40	Minister, I listened to your reply with some surprise. You are right to say that the overpopulation in our prisons has been a problem for decades. When I entered the Chamber in 1991, more than 30 years ago, it was also a problem. But how many liberal ministers have been to the Department of Justice and have not answered the problem? Even when the government agreement in which promises were made was concluded, and when you promised that all punishments would be carried out, you knew the problem. Minister, citizens' security must be paramount. It's the government's job to protect them. But unfortunately, you've spelled yourself a license of inability. Please stop being a minister of announcements. Execute the coalition agreement. Perform your policy statement. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u41	Minister, what a flat political recovery you have done now! So flat! [[Applause]] ) Do you speak of working together? Our proposals are being voted down. Mrs. Van Peel had a working group on child protection. What did you do with that? You torpedoed it. That's working together for you. [[Applause]] ) Mrs Gabriels, a provisional measure until 2025 is very provisional. Minister, you made a government agreement in 2020, and you already knew all the reasons you mentioned earlier. Nothing has changed in this respect, but you have promised to deal with the punishment; you would go to war against impunity. People sentenced to prison for up to ten years are not pussy. What should the victims of your measure say? What is your word worth, Minister? Nothing is worth your word anymore. It's all about political statements, announcements and recuperation. That's all it's worth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification on the subject. I have heard a lot of criticism, ladies and gentlemen, but I have not heard any alternatives, at least not in the short term. Everyone in the hemisphere also knows that there is no miracle solution. If there is, it was carried out today. The lack of capacity cannot be denied by anyone. That problem has been dragging on for decades. Prisoners are also not lego cubes, which one keeps stacking on each other. Everyone realizes it's inhumane when three prisoners are locked up in a cell for one person. In that you take responsibility, Minister. In addition, I am pleased that you are also taking structural measures: more capacity, more places, more prisons, more alternative punishments and more guidance, so that we avoid recurrence. You cannot do that alone, but you must do it across jurisdiction. I wish you every success in doing so, because we all agree that in the long term all the penalties that judges pronounce must be enforceable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u43	Madam Secretary, when the news came in at the beginning of May that Electrabel was passing money to the parent company, that made it feel a bit harsh. That news came at a time when many families and companies were struggling to pay their energy bills. So that news was a slap in the face. You had previously announced that you would tackle the excess profits, and when that news came in, you said quite loudly: 'That is unacceptable, I am going to come up with a proposal to deal with these excess profits'. Meanwhile, it's mid-June. Our group understands that such a measure takes time and that it is not legally evident to introduce it. People often say they want to tackle the excess profits, but what are the excess profits? Who's making profits? How are we going to merge this measure with the agreements already made on the nuclear contribution? That's a lot of questions. You wanted clarity and asked for the advice of the CREG and the National Bank. The proposals of the CREG have been known for some time and since yesterday we know what the opinion of the National Bank is. The National Bank says very clearly that skimming overprofits can be useful and timely. It advocates a structural measure rather than a one-off crisis contribution. Madam Secretary, a lot of time has passed since your first announcement. All ingredients and all advice are now well known. In the meantime, I hope you've used the time to gather some figures. I had three questions for you, but two of them you just answered in Villa Politica. It is remarkable, however, that you go to the cameras first and then to Parliament. Too bad. Mr Calvo, that is remarkable for a minister who is so committed to political renewal and wants to upgrade Parliament. My question was what your proposal will look like and when it will come, but we already know that in the meantime. Madam Secretary, how much do you think of usury profits and how much do you intend to get out of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u44	Mrs Dierick, you have outlined the context very well. We are facing a very large energy crisis, with companies making very large profits. At the moment, record profits are being made and a record number of people are in trouble. The dividend paid only a few weeks ago by Electrabel also gave an initial indication of this. However, it is not an obvious matter. An overprofit is a profit that damages the economy and our families. However, there are other contracts too, so it is not so obvious to act. That is why we have not gone ice over one night and have requested several reports, in particular at the CREG on the size and location of these excess profits, not only in terms of nuclear power stations but also in terms of our gas plants and other technologies. We also went to the National Bank to help us with the criteria. What is an excess and can we deal with it? I am very pleased that I have received the report from the National Bank. That report effectively paves the way. We've known each other for a while and you know I don't stick around. We have already worked in parallel, so we can now finalise a proposal that we will pass on to the government. We will discuss this with our colleagues, first and foremost with the Finance Minister, Mr Van Peteghem. As you know, the joint expertise of Energy and Finance has already produced good results, particularly as regards the energy standard. I will not anticipate the modalities, but I was questioned here week after week. Today, however, you are the only one doing so, when all the elements are on the table and the government can say that it is going to do so. After all, our people and our companies deserve that no one is enriched by this crisis. Mrs Dierick, I would like to thank you for your question. We are done, we are going to the government and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your words of thanks. We've known each other a long time, and I'm sure you're working hard. We also know that you face major challenges. You want to tackle the excess profits and at the same time negotiate the extension of the lifetime of the two nuclear power stations. These are two important dossiers, which urgently need to be resolved before the summer recess. So time is very important here. There is also great uncertainty about both dossiers in the sector. It is therefore very important that this uncertainty be removed and that it be clarified. I would say let the summer come, because you come to Parliament with two agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u46	Secretary of State, three years ago when I left Fedasil, we were going through a crisis of reception. Three years later, you are Secretary of State for a few more days, I am a parliamentarian for a longer time, I hope, and we are still going through a crisis of reception. Hundreds of applicants for international protection are denied a right to reception to which they are entitled, are placed on waiting lists without knowing what tomorrow will be done and are on the street. Some of them go to the Labour Court, get heavy convictions from the Belgian State, because it fails to fulfil its obligations. The Labour Courts also tell us: "Can't we? We are overwhelmed by unilateral requests that we would do well today. We need a solution. I know you didn't inherit a house in perfect condition. I know that you also went through the crisis with its consequences on the management of asylum. I also know that we are suffering the massive influx of Ukrainians fleeing a country under siege. However, today we must provide concrete answers and when I hear that we are going to open camps with tents tomorrow, Mr Secretary of State, I say no. It's not okay! This is not the reception of quality, it is not the fulfilment of our legal obligations! A few days from your possible departure, I'd like to know which house you're going to leave to your successor. What is the plan of action to spend this summer, to ensure the reception places for everyone who needs them and fulfils the conditions, to avoid periodicities that cost the State and therefore to be a State governed by the rule of law that guarantees its missions? What solutions do you have, as short-term leads? Have you considered calling again on the private sector to open up collective spaces? If so, when and how? Have you considered using associations, NGOs to open up places that are sorely lacking and that we need now? In short, what is your action plan? How will you leave your house when you close the door and leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u47	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, for months, asylum seekers have been forced to spend the night in the streets almost every day because there is no room for them in the reception network. You've already made a lot of efforts. At the moment there are more than 30,000 reception places, but it still does not appear to be enough. The situation is becoming untenable, even for Fedasil staff, who have to work in particularly difficult circumstances. The waiting list you entered is not a solution. Judges have ruled on several occasions that that waiting list is an unlawful practice. Ladies and gentlemen, when we debate this, we must be careful not to give a false picture of the cause of the reception crisis. The problem is not so much with the inflow, but with the slow outflow. Asylum seekers have to wait an average of 300 days for a decision. Some even have to wait 2 to 3 years for an asylum decision. According to the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, there is currently a deficit of 13 000 files. 20,000 asylum seekers are waiting for a decision. But people who get a positive decision and are recognised as refugees sometimes find it difficult to get out of the centres. They find it difficult to find a home and they have to call on volunteers or citizens' initiatives to help them find a suitable home. Some even end up in the street. Here too, we notice a contrast with the way we deal with Ukrainian refugees. What will you do to speed up the asylum procedure and to eliminate the backlog of cases? What factors are hindering the outflow from the reception centres? How do you work with other ministers to promote the integration of recognised refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Platteau is right. For months now, we have had problems with reception, while shelters have been added. Do you remember the situation in the autumn of last year, when shelters were needed? Thousands were created. Today there are 31,000 reception places and Belgium is proportional to the top six countries with the highest asylum pressure in the European Union. Of the people arriving in Belgium, 46 percent have already been registered in another country. Yes, 46% of those arriving in our country have already applied or are registered in another European country. Each month, at least one hundred persons who have already received international protection status in another European country reapply. I know European regulations. The rules are what they are, today everyone who arrives in Belgium has the right to care. However, if we have a reception capacity of 31,000 people, and there are more than 2,000 people arriving every month, of whom in fact half should be in another country, then I do not think it would be illogical to avoid a policy in which people on the streets have to wait for shelter. Think of last year's fall and winter. A waiting list is not intended to deny reception, but to ensure that the most vulnerable can be received immediately. In other words, there are similar problems in other countries. In the Netherlands people sleep on chairs in Ter Apel, in France thousands of people are in the homeless shelter, spread throughout the country, and so I can give some examples from neighbouring countries. The reality is what she is, and with shelter alone, you can't get there. Otherwise the problem would have been solved. A number of months were asked to create additional shelters. That has happened, we have more shelter now than ever before and yet we are not there yet. That still means that there is a problem! It would be interesting, when it comes to creating reception places, to ensure that at least at the local level it is created. Mr Rigot, it is well known that some mayors, regardless of their political colour, are making complications in order to quickly collaborate in the opening of centres. That's not the case for all of us. Unfortunately, that's the reality. We need to invest in staff. This government has done more than any other. It is important to ensure that the CGRA can do its job and provide quick answers to every person arriving on our soil. We do. The reason I talked about these tents is because we know that potentially in addition to the number of arrivals and those who have already applied elsewhere, others could come and load the system. We do everything we can and, at some point, we have to be creative. In the Netherlands, they built large structures. In Belgium, the question was asked. We'll remember Glons hosting 70 people. We need to be more creative. In addition, we need to be realistic. The reality is that asylum and migration policies do not function as a system at European level. At European level, we need to find other solutions. We need to screen asylum seekers at the external borders of the European Union so that they know where they stand right away. We must prevent 46% of asylum seekers from arriving in Belgium, even though they are registered in another country, because that is how the system comes under pressure; that is unfortunately the reality. That is why the solution will be European, or, unfortunately, Rwandan, because others are asking for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with you on the need to speed up procedures. We are on track to achieve this – it will probably be next fall – and this will avoid having to create places each time because there is a saturation in the processing of applications and therefore too long time to give answers to applicants for international protection. But right now, there are people on the street. The summer is there, the sanitary conditions are bad and we need answers. We cannot count on the solidarity of our citizens to give answers, as we have done for the reception of Ukrainians. It is the federal state that must give structural answers, otherwise we will still be condemned, otherwise we will not have taken on our duties. We can't just do what we can, but we have to do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, I have heard very few answers to my questions about how we can improve and accelerate the outflow. However, that is part of the problem that we need to address. I do not have to tell you that, of course, the right of reception is not the same as the right of residence. The law is clear: people have the right to apply for asylum and are entitled to receive asylum during the procedure. The government agreement also places a very strong emphasis on respect for human rights and for judicial decisions. We must therefore put an end to the illegal practice of waiting lists. In addition, additional efforts should be made to speed up procedures and to reduce the delay in the file. Anyone who gets a positive decision must also be able to integrate quickly into our society and quickly find a home and work. Anyone who gets a negative decision, Mr Secretary of State, indeed deserves a human and sustained return policy tailored to their needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u51	Madam President, Minister, they pushed Victor into his hands three shares, and suddenly Victor was a bogus self-employed man. Victor worked at the construction site in Antwerp, which collapsed in 2021. When Victor raises his T-shirt today, we can still see his injuries. He was badly wounded. Mr Minister, twenty-eight years of being a construction worker, standing on the fourth floor of a yard, watching the yard collapse, seeing two direct colleagues die, being taken to hospital and waking up a day later, finally being in financial shit, because he has no social protection: that is how this country is dealing with the people who are building our schools today. Someone has to tell me why a specialized chape company cannot build its own chape and why a sub-contracting of sub-contracting should be called upon to do so. Minister, that is not a chain of specialisation. That's a chain of underpayment and exploitation. When a public government builds a school, the public government must remain responsible for me. First of all, how can that responsibility be shifted? Secondly, how is it that the city of Antwerp has no idea at all of the number of contractors active in a city yard? How is such a thing possible in our country today? I shall, of course, also put that question to Mr De Wever. I'll take them to you, too, the Minister responsible. Thirdly, the problem with the floor loads is addressed for six months, but nothing happens to them. The information is not passed on to the workers. Apparently, the city of Antwerp is not aware of this either. Finally, Minister, is it not high time that we set up a legal framework here, to oblige public authorities to ban bogus self-employed people, to provide total transparency and to ensure that the public authority itself remains responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u52	Thank you, Mr Mertens, for your questions. First of all, in the run-up to this sad birthday, I would like to say that my thoughts go to the family and the relatives of the victims of this tragedy. You're right, there are too many accidents at work at yards. I am thinking, among other things, of the two victims in Watermaal-Bosvoorde this week. Unfortunately, I cannot provide any additional information on the judicial investigation into the construction disaster in Antwerp. I can tell you that the inspection is very strict and has a zero tolerance policy on the risks of accidents at work at heights. Unfortunately, the best control measures can never completely rule out the fact that malicious behaviour of individuals results in unsafe working conditions for workers. Stability problems, for example, cannot be detected by the naked eye by inspection. If they had been informed, they would certainly have acted. The working material and the appropriate protection must always be perfectly in order. As in other areas, training is also essential in the field of safety. In consultation with the social partners, basic safety training will be established in the short term. This training will have to be followed by everyone who is in a yard: employees, self-employed workers, temporary workers and posted construction workers. The fight against social dumping remains a top priority for all social inspection services. Last year, no less than 4,830 studies were conducted and 618 PVs were prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u53	Mr Minister, you are talking about malicious people, but it is not about malicious people, it is about a malicious system, with a cascade of subcontracting. The system on these construction sites is rogue and it is not normal that public authorities are no longer responsible for the construction sites they order themselves. My simple question to you was whether the public authorities should not remain the ultimate responsibility for every construction site and you did not answer. You say that the social inspection has a zero tolerance policy. Last year, however, you said in committee that there had been no checks on that construction site in Antwerp and that there were far too few social inspectors. At that time, you promised to provide additional social inspectors. Today, you say everything's fine. Mr Minister, it is not all right, it has not been added and social control is still not in order. Your answer is absolutely incomplete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u54	People who pay 10,000 euros to end up being exploited and raped in a small room somewhere above a commercial store, or young Chinese women who are recruited, deep inland, and then exploited in massage parlors, they are not just a few examples. It is what is happening now: a network that operates from Spain and is always looking for the weakest link, shifts its field of activity as soon as it is addressed in Spain, and thus strikes in Belgium. We are dealing here with tough criminals with an extremely heavy approach. Victims arriving here are in trouble and have to pay off and make debts for years. Those who do not deliver enough will simply be moved to another country where they earn less and will have to work for many years. If one calls for the help of an institution, the family will be punished, threatened or whatever. Those criminals are everywhere. For example, it is about economic or sexual exploitation; it is about catering, but also about small shops. As far as sexual exploitation is concerned, there is extremely good news. The government is strengthening the Federal Justice Police. There will be specialised detectives on trafficking in human beings, and that is the way it should be done. As far as economic exploitation is concerned, Minister, your inspection services are doing a fantastic job, but you have already admitted yourself that the capacity of your specialised inspection services is totally inadequate at the moment. This has just been confirmed in the committee dealing with trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. For now, it's clear. With Vooruit, we are turning this fight against trafficking in human beings back into the absolute policy priority that it should be. Minister, will you work on this very targeted recruitment? Will you provide more inspectors with ECOSOC inspection services? Will you ensure that the networks are stopped and dismantled and that the exploiters are stopped?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u55	Thank you, Mr Segers, for your question. It gives me the opportunity to bring the problem to the attention of my colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, with whom I share the supervision of the RSZ. Together we try to obtain a reinforcement of the ECOSOC teams from the inspection services of the RSZ. I am particularly committed to strengthening the monitoring of the Social Laws. Both inspection services are committed to the fight against economic exploitation, each with its own approach and purpose. We share your concern about the fight against sexual exploitation, which is primarily run by the federal police. Social inspection services focus on economic exploitation, including in the prostitution sector. In particular, they carry out studies on the traditional jobs. Last year it was decided to recruit 45 additional social inspectors. The recruitment procedures for such staff are ongoing. Minister Vandenbroucke and I will point out to the administration that the fight against social dumping and the fight against trafficking in human beings are priority objectives of the Strategic Plan for Social Combating Fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is wonderful that the government will ensure recruitment. They must be very targeted recruitments. In the past, there were general recruitments and the inspection services ordered to combat trafficking in human beings were subsequently not strengthened. Those recruitments will therefore have to be very targeted. I understand that until now this has been a general recruitment process. If you really want to make a difference and stop those networks, you will need to focus on specialisation and highly targeted recruitment for the inspection services specifically fighting against trafficking in human beings. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u57	Minister, more than four out of ten people of non-European origin in our country are not working and are not looking for work either. When we look at women, the situation is even more dramatic. That's six inactives out of ten. We are dangling all the way back to the European platoon. That is never good news, especially when the labour market is on fire. Thousands of vacancies are not filled, companies are in difficulty and our productivity is suffering. Over the last two days, you have held the second employment conference, specifically around the very low level of activity of non-EU citizens. You will not be surprised that we welcome any initiative that should lead to a higher level of activity. Action is needed to increase the number of people employed and to increase interregional mobility within our labour market. This action should also provide for more consultation between the different authorities in order to eliminate mismatches between the number of inactive and the number of vacancies. In short, there is a need for a comprehensive approach to employment policy, education and also discrimination in recruitment. The latter is an unacceptable and real problem, but we cannot hide behind it as if it were the main reason for the low level of activity in that target group. There has been enough talk about the problems, now we are going to find solutions and we need action. Minister, what lessons have you learned from the last two-day employment conference? What concrete measures do you see to drastically increase the activity rate of non-EU residents? What steps will you take to strengthen the inter-regional dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u58	Mrs. De Jonge, there's a very satisfied man in front of you. This year's employment conference was very educational. The subject of this conference was particularly well chosen in the light of the figures you quoted, which is also reflected in this week's OECD report. The social partners found a consensus at this employment conference on many issues. It concerns, for example, the need to reform the instrument of positive actions so that more use can be made of them. It is also about facilitating access to the labour market of persons with legal residence status and improving the available information in particular, the single national website. You will understand that all the information that was shared at the conference and all the social partners' proposals must now be carefully analysed. A concrete action plan will be presented in the autumn. If you have not been able to follow all the work of the conference, which I understand, you can review it over and over again through the website of the FOD WASO.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to thank you for working on this and for presenting a plan effectively in the autumn. We all agree on a higher level of effectiveness as an objective for this government. This is also mentioned in the coalition agreement as extremely important. This is necessary for our companies, for our employees and also for our society in general. More people need to contribute to keeping social security affordable, so a higher level of effectiveness is really needed. It is clear that thresholds need to be removed in order to get more people to work. We must be aware of the fact that a great deal of talent is being lost. We need additional measures to re-activate people of working age who are not currently working. The labor deal is a good start. I hope that it will be on the table in the near future and, above all, unharmed in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u60	Thank you, Mrs. De Jonge and Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Dieter Vanbesien, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u62	Madam President, this bill was due to two judgments of the Constitutional Court. As a result of these judgments, urgent legislative changes had to be introduced. Our group, in particular our former colleague, Mr Matheï, has tabled amendments in committee to solve a legal problem. In fact, business auditors have an exception to professional secrecy which applies today only to transactions for the benefit of companies. In 2016, there was no provision governing the merger or division of associations and foundations. In the meantime, in 2019 the Code of Companies and Associations provided for a specific regime for the merger and division of non-profit organisations, e-profit organisations and foundations. In fact, only the derogation from professional secrecy did not apply to business auditors working for associations or foundations today. We have corrected this by means of amendments, so that the derogation from professional secrecy will apply in future to company auditors working for associations or foundations. In addition, we have provided an extension to certified auditors. These amendments were also adopted in committee. I would like to quote this because our colleague, Mr Matheï, has done a good job. I would like to thank him for that. Of course, our group will fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u63	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u64	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2669/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2669/6) The title has been amended by the committee in "draft law on various urgent provisions relating to the fight against money laundering and laying down provisions relating to exceptions to the obligation of secrecy of auditors and certified accountants". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law laying down urgent various provisions on the fight against money laundering and laying down provisions on exceptions to the professional secrecy of business auditors and certified auditors." The bill has 9 articles. The draft law has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u65	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Patrick Prévot and Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt, rapporteurs, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u67	Madam President, Minister, there is a transposition of a European copyright directive. We probably agree that the current copyright no longer meets the digital needs of the 21st century and that it therefore needed to be adapted. Currently, authors see their rights undermined and receive no or only a small fee for their work. So I fully agree with an adjustment. As I have already mentioned in committee, this is not a debate on pro- or counter-artists. We agree that there should be a fair remuneration for performance. The debate is about whether or not to maintain the ecosystem of the current music sector, the audiovisual sector and the game sector and the associated cultural wealth. We do not think that is right, but I will come back to that later. Before going into more detail, I would like to stress that Belgium is again far too late in transposing this directive, which should have happened more than a year ago. The way in which this transposition was carried out is at least remarkable. No advice was requested from the Council of State and the Intellectual Property Council, although very far-reaching changes were made. In addition, no impact analysis was made. It is, however, about changes that will have very serious consequences. In addition, an amendment was introduced at second reading to extend the scope. As a result, Belgium occupies a unique position in the European Union, and that is not what we mean in the positive sense. As I have said, I will go into this in more detail later. Before I go on with the transposition, I would first like to point out that this has been accompanied by a great deal of commotion at European level when this directive is being drawn up. I myself was able to see this at close range in the European Parliament. I was one of the rapporteurs and negotiators for our group in the drafting of this directive, and I can assure you that there was no night ice there. Just because a very precarious balance has already been sought at European level, I think that the way in which Belgium has dealt with this precarious balance is very special. I would first like to say some positive things, because that is how you know us, Minister, positive things can also be mentioned. There is fair compensation for the artists, or for the right holders, because of course that goes wider than just the artists. For online exploitation, too, it is a very good thing that this is happening and that this is being addressed with this draft law, which is the transposition of that European directive. It is also positive that a number of exceptions are provided for. It is only logical that, for example, the illustration of certain aspects of education will not be covered by this directive. It is important, of course, that the exceptions will be interpreted strictly in order to fully assert the rights of authors, performers. The transparency and information obligation provided for is certainly also positive. Another positive and certainly not to be underestimated is the fact that the draft law provides for a new exclusive neighbouring law for press publishers for the online use of their press publications by, for example, online platforms. After all, we see that a lot of press publishers have less revenue by reducing ads because people are looking up the news online more and more. The problem was often that if you clicked on the news editor's website, they would not receive any compensation for it. Behind that news website are journalists who still have to be paid. For hyperlinking, the placement of loose words in itself, no fee will be required, but once clicked on the publisher's website, a fee can be paid. For us, it was very important that the exclusive rights of the press publishers were guaranteed 100%. Therefore, if a press publisher chooses not to make his or her article available to a platform, it must be possible to do so perfectly. That was the intention of the directive, but in our view there were other interpretations possible. That is why we have tabled an amendment in committee to clarify this. We are grateful to the majority for approving our amendment. This guarantees more for the press publishers that their right is indeed an exclusive right. In order to make the transition a little less significant, before moving to the negative elements, I would like to begin by expressing a reflection or a concern of the N-VA Group. This has nothing to do with the draft law itself, but it has to do with the directive. After all, we fear that the free internet will be undermined by the famous Article 17 of the directive, Article 55 in the draft law. It states that online service providers will be liable for the content placed on their platform. If material is uploaded on their platform, they are liable for it. A number of exceptions are provided for, such as memes and parodys. However, no one can give a conclusive answer to the question as to how we can avoid precautionary platforms leaving out certain items in order to avoid being held liable. How can any filter system - which will always be a computer - make a distinction between a parody and a meme, which are not regulated, and other things, on the basis of artificial intelligence, among other things? We are concerned about this, which I repeat is not about the draft, but about the directive itself. I come now to the negative points and our concerns about inserted articles in the transposition of the directive. Firstly, Article 54 provides for an inalienable right of compensation for authors and performers through collective management. There is a great deal to be said about this, first and foremost in procedural and legislative matters. I shall then go into the substance in more detail. On a procedural level, the current government has rightly chosen to ask for an opinion from the European Commission on the introduction of the article. The European Commission was very clear on this point. It has twice called for an opinion from the European Commission to give a negative opinion on the insertion of the article. Ik citeer de Europese Commissie dat de richtlijn zelf "does not permit member states to introduce a remuneration right of the kind currently discussed in Belgium". That leaves nothing to the imagination. It also states that the Article will exceed the limits of harmonisation envisaged in the Directive and thus be completely incompatible with the Directive. We can also ask a lot of questions about the content of the transposition process, in particular when the inalienable right is introduced. Firstly, how will this provision be applied in practice? How, for example, will the distinction be made between those who have and have not transferred their rights? Only record companies know that for their own artists. The practical effect is therefore one element. We also see that, in countries where the scheme already exists, the initial disbursements are still awaited through such a system, because after nine months we simply do not know how to get started. I have already referred to a very important element, namely the ecosystem that is so inherent in the music industry, the audiovisual sector and the gaming sector. Those three sectors are hit and thrown into one pile, without distinction between them, while they all function in a different way. In the music industry, for example, there are royalties per exploitation, and in the audiovisual sector it is done on the basis of buy-outs. Everything is simply being lumped together here, which will create a great deal of legal uncertainty in the sector. We also fear that the system will only benefit successful artists, not the less successful ones. For example, music producers take a risk. Of the ten artists they offer a record deal, on average one is successful. One in ten. We all know the big names. Young people look up to that, play some guitar in the garage, record that, put it on YouTube and want to be world famous. Justin Bieber has succeeded, but unfortunately there are so many others who try, but who can't. Producers take that risk anyway and give young, unknown, talented artists a chance, but then they do need that one successful in order to achieve positive figures. We fear that what is ahead of us will not take those risks and that the small artists will no longer have a chance, which will lead to a deterioration of the cultural sector. That wasn't taken out of the sky. One might think that it is logical that large music producers cite those arguments, for example the Googles of today. That is true, but not only they express that fear. We have also received a letter from VI.BE, the support point for artists and the music industry, according to their website literally "from beginner to pro, from local to international." It can hardly be said that this is only about the greats of the earth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u68	You'll tell us about the breakup and create a doom sculpture. You refer to countries where that has not yet been transposed, or nine months ago. In committee, you asked me what I knew about Germany. That was very clever of you. In Germany the transposition is not yet complete and I could not tell you much about it. I could ask you today what you know about Spain. Let me explain it to you myself. Spain is a very interesting case. This duty was introduced in Spain in 1996. In 2006 the online section was added. We have been working on this for a number of years. Then there is the possibility of looking at what has happened to the audiovisual sector in Spain. I did. Since its introduction, also with an unwaivable right, like here, which makes the comparison very nice, the number of films produced in Spain has risen steadily between 2003 and 2019. The fiction has tripled over the same period, with EUR 4.3 billion revenue in Spain today for fiction and films. For the music sector we see the same trend. There was a coronadip in it, but outside there is a constant increase. In 2019, Netflix also said that the European production hub would be installed in Madrid. Last year, that hub was expanded from five to ten studios, which is good for 7,500 jobs. Something like this doesn't happen in a fragmented landscape. That simply indicates that today, where that system has been in place for a long time, there is absolutely no objection. An audiovisual landscape can flourish like this. Spain is a very good example of this. You shouldn't be too scared of the doom images you're trying to sell us here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u69	Mr. Verduyckt. The question with the figures you list is just how much it's going to be. Here too, such high figures can be found in Belgium. The question is, how long will that last? In other words, do you know how many small artists there are in those numbers? Someone may have one successful film or some successful productions in their name, but the question is how many more opportunities are given to others than the big names. You mentioned the audiovisual sector, but what about the music sector, for example? What about the little local artists? Do they still get opportunities? That's what we're wondering. The way we work surprises us, by the way. If you are so convinced of the added value of this system, why is no impact analysis done? This added value would then turn out to be in writing. Why were they no longer heard after this amendment was introduced? Isn't it strange to introduce such far-reaching changes without hearing the people involved? I do not think that this is the right way to come up with legislation in which many people can find themselves. Of course, everyone will never succeed and bring clear added value. That is the fear we want to express. Moreover, an additional amendment was tabled at second reading. It is very special that such a far-reaching amendment is tabled at second reading, extending its scope. Now, for example, Spotify and Netflix would also be included. I sincerely hope that we are wrong and that the proposal will have positive effects, but that is what I fear. That is why the N-VA is tabling two amendments, one to delete Article 54 and the other to delete Articles 60 to 62, for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u70	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before you sets out the rules for the remuneration of authors for content published on the Internet and platforms. I would like to give two examples. You open YouTube, you type "The jazz box", you listen to Mr Jonasz's tube, but Mr Jonasz will not touch a franc, a euro, a cent for this beautiful music. Another example: you open Google News and browse through what is said in the press. But neither The Evening nor The Echo will touch the slightest cent for this information they give you and for which they have worked. For me, any work deserves a salary and if I wanted to sum up the scope of this text, I would say that it protects the weakest actor compared to the strongest part of the GAFA digital platforms. This project enshrines a reality of freedom. Freedom must be framed so as not to evolve in a world where the strength of the market crushes the weakest part. We had already worked on this with the law on the regulation of abusive business practices. You remember last November 18th, a law to that effect had been approved. Freedom can't do anything. On the internet too, every job deserves a salary. Journalists who find their press articles on Google and whose newspaper or themselves do not have financial compensation for this publication are for the moment very poor. Today, we will vote for a text that will give them the opportunity to receive remuneration. What are the advances? We can always have more but for the press, the European directive and therefore the project provides that platforms of type Google or Facebook, etc. We'll have to pay the press publishers. Of course, negotiations to set prices are not going to be easy. Platforms will be concerned to drag discussions on to preserve their current benefits. This may take a long time. This is why the text provides for a mediating role for the IBPT to facilitate negotiations, but the draft goes further and also provides for the possibility of making binding decisions if publishers and platforms do not agree. So there's still a lot of work for stakeholders, but it's for the better. For performers, platforms such as Youtube, Netflix, etc. They will have to pay the artists properly. We received hundreds of emails from the platforms and their representatives to change our minds. This right is contested. We understand this view, but our position is that the authors must be compensated. The artists deserve to be paid. Currently, only the big stars are paid. This text will provide an opportunity to pay all content producers. The text also provides for exceptions, as set out in the Directive. For example, publication should not be remunerated if it is no longer commercially available. Or if it takes place as part of excavations for academic research. Of course, our group fully supports the logic of these exceptions. In conclusion, I also wanted to highlight the work of Parliament. Mrs Van Bossuyt spoke of an amendment, which came to second reading, which made it possible to integrate into the project the platforms which were initially excluded from it (Spotify, Netflix, etc.). Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we have no oil. We must protect our discoverers, our artists and we will support this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u71	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is with enthusiasm that my group will be voting on this bill. The Minister's project is an important turning point for the remuneration of artists on the Internet. Under this law, their rights will be better paid and perhaps even up to what they produce. Artists, like many other workers, have become weak links in an economy where platforms capture most of the wealth produced. What would YouTube or Netflix be without artists, performers and all content creators? It is time for some of the billions of turnover generated in Europe to serve the European art sector. I would like to welcome the quality of the debate in committee. Thanks to a second reading requested by Mrs Van Bossuyt, the majority had the opportunity to extend compulsory collective bargaining to platforms such as Netflix. Without this second reading, we would never have had time to achieve such a result. Colleagues, with this bill by Minister Dermagne, Belgium joins Germany and Spain among the most willing states to defend artists. We are in line with the European Parliament's recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us say that the debate on this subject in committee was quite moving. Allow me to begin by saying that it is self-evident that compensation should be paid to artists and that legislation should be adapted to the new digital world. That makes sense to me, and we understand that. However, we are particularly pleased that new opinions have finally been requested from many stakeholders and organisations that will be affected by this new legislation. We also note that, when we looked at the opinions later, that was actually necessary. However, we also see that a lot of advice has been ignored. In any case, I think that it is always useful to seek advice, even though we have been accused in committee of calling for it to be delayed. Of course, that was not the intention. Politicians, however, often live in another world that is not reality. Colleagues, this is a European transposition that should have been done a year ago. Therefore, it is not the first time that we have been late in this House for the transposition of European directives. There was a broad consensus at European level to arrive at the original directive. It is therefore a negotiated whole, of which Germany has left during its transposition. We believe that a fundamental change has been made to the transposition process, without seeking advice from the Council of State. The Council of State gave its opinion on the preliminary draft directive on the pure transposition of the directive. The majority then later introduced an important amendment, which, in our view, is fundamental, without seeking advice. This change gives a very different dimension to the draft law from that of the European directive which had to be transposed. I find it strange that when something is negotiated by parties who always say that we should work together at European level and harmonise as much as possible, precisely those parties consider that we should abandon it. My fellow Members have already referred to Germany. Indeed, that is where the directive is now being fully transposed. But the fear is that it will turn square there. We cannot refer to Germany because no evaluation has yet been carried out there. Spain is indeed in a different situation. I expected that to be referred to today. But I do not know whether we can look at it that way at all, my colleague. I'll tell you why in a minute. When I hear the concerns expressed by the majority parties, I understand, of course, that the audiovisual sector is experiencing a certain problem today, especially as regards copyright. I understand very well that something needs to be done about this. But as I made very clear in the committee, the actors and the musical artists are thrown into one pile. I believe that this is the problem of this bill. They're actually throwing everything in one pile. This is regrettable, because it is not easy to compare the two situations. Of course, there must always be a balance between the various actors involved. I believe that this balance is no longer there with this bill. That's gonna get broken in here. I believe that there are certain parties in Parliament who see the producers very often as enemies, as profiteers, and so on. I wonder whether it is a good thing to say that all these artists should be obliged to join a management company. What guarantee is there that they will be paid correctly and, above all, in good time? The management companies are very often on large amounts of money from unincorporated copyright. Take a look at the annual accounts of all these management companies and you will find that there is a great deal of money there. We must also honestly admit that not all artists want to join a management company. I think that artists should be left free choice. You have deviated from the European directive with that obligation. If connection was optional, I could have agreed perfectly with the relevant article. The European Commission has certainly not expressed itself positively in several letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u73	Mr Verduyckt has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u74	Mr Van Lommel, when you talk about collective management, you must be a little bit correct. You argue that no one is obliged to join and claim that certain parties are against the producers and for the musicians. It's not about that at all. Most record companies today touch their money in the same way, namely through collective management. With the best known of all, Sabam, 60% of the innings go to record companies and 40% to artists. So please do not pretend that there is a division in this respect, because that is absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u75	Colleague, I would like to point out that there must be contractual freedom between the parties. It seems logical to me that an artist himself should sign a contract with a producer, allowing him to arrange certain fees. In my opinion, that principle is being broken with what is now before us. There is now a compensation system for producers per operation. This approach is largely put aside if we have to go into the business of managing companies. Anyway, the producers are gonna run with some of the profits. We can find that fair or unfair, because it is part of the contractual agreements on, among other things, the expected service provided by the producer, who sometimes has to be wider for one artist than for the other, agreements that have to be put on paper. A starting artist who wants to release a record needs a producer for the necessary investments. Several advisory parties fear that this guarantee may no longer be offered in the future. Not every artist succeeds in building a career. I was just talking about joining the management companies. In my opinion, the second reading of this kind is common practice in our Committee on Energy, Research and Technology by extending the fees to the streaming platforms. While the majority parties at first reading were not quite in agreement yet, that was what I made out of the undertone of the debate, the opponents were silent and kept their lips together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u76	Mr Van Lommel, you have been talking here all along about procedures and the Council of State, and you have said that the amendment made things worse at second reading. What is the amendment about? It's about Netflix, Spotify and Disney+ being taken into the whole package and that they will also pay a fee to our artists. That you have a problem with the way things have turned out up to now, but I would like to talk to you about the content. I want to talk about whether it is a good thing or not that these online platforms are being included in the story, because that is what the change is about. When we had the discussion, I was reminded of the abolition of the watch and listen money at the beginning of the century, after which we could watch free television and listen to the radio. Today, the contrast could not be greater. The families pay quite a lot to watch their popular movies and TV shows today and to listen to their popular music on those pay platforms. That's where a lot of money goes. You say that the amendment only makes things worse. I understand you have a problem with that, but just say so. Then say that Flemish Interest does not want Netflix, Spotify and Disney+ to pay those rights, say that Flemish Interest chooses to be on the side of foreign players, say that Flemish Interest does not want our own artists to receive compensation. Then say that instead of shooting at the procedure here and the fact that an amendment has been added. That is what it is all about in the end, that is the content of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u77	Mr Verduyckt, you have not read the file yourself. Have you read the advice, including that of VI.BE, the association for artists and the music industry? It itself raises questions and complains that no consultation has taken place with the sector and that no impact analysis has been carried out on the entire value chain. So we are discussing an arrangement here today that you think is better, but when we talk about the concrete figures, nobody can tell us exactly what the impact will be. The Minister was also unable to answer this during the committee's discussion, because no impact analysis was made. If we make such profound amendments to legislation transposing a directive that has been working for so long, and we do so without making an impact analysis, then Parliament is not doing very well. That makes sense, doesn't it? If I have to approve such matters, I would like to know in advance what their exact effects are. However, these effects are not known, because the Minister cannot give them. The music industry and the artists themselves say that the Belgian market is already very small and that one should be careful not to make it even more vulnerable. I have listed the various opinions in committee and they were not largely positive because of the lack of consultation. There are different actors in this process, and one has to sit down with all the stakeholders, listen to everyone's version of the story, and then try to find a good balance. If this is not done, there is a risk that the great artists might not agree with this legislation and move abroad. Then we've lost them. The remaining little ones will then have to submit to this system. That is a pity, because if we had opted for this minimum European transposition, we would have found this good legislation everywhere, and we could fully support it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u78	VI.BE is a support point and not an interest association. So that's very easy. If you are talking about this sector, the artists and the actors, read the advice of De Acteurs Guild and that of De Muzieckilde. They are in favour of the present system. I wonder why you think you know better than she does and why you say it won't work. However, you do not include these opinions; you merely refer to the advice of a support point that has said something else. You are very selective in calling for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u79	The main music streaming services have also spoken out. They are also concerned about the new right of reimbursement introduced without any consultation or analysis. That's the same story. They even say that this could potentially lead to double payment and can have a domino effect throughout the entire music ecosystem. I didn't invent those things. If the Minister sees such things, he must have an impact analysis carried out. Then we're sure it'll all be better later. However, we do not have that guarantee today. The honourable Member has just put forward a large number of arguments which I will not repeat. If the original transposition had taken place as in other countries, apart from Germany, we would have supported this bill. However, as it stands, we cannot do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u80	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is about transposing into Belgian law the European directive on copyright and related rights into the digital single market. This directive should have already been transposed into Belgian law since 7 June 2021. So we had to move forward. This transposition has been the subject of numerous discussions, intense debates on the right to remuneration, a right to inaccessible remuneration and collective management for the contributing platforms (YouTube, Facebook, TikTok) but also for streaming platforms such as Netflix or Disney+. Mr. Minister, you have deviated from some of the articles in the directive to strengthen the position of authors and interpreters in the face of the big platforms that are Spotify, YouTube or Netflix. This has earned you a reserved opinion from the European Commission. As for the sector which comprises many different professions, it has positioned itself sometimes for, sometimes against. Of course, Minister, we will be supporting this government project because, as you know, the artists sector is of particular interest to us, but we also want monitoring and evaluation to be carried out as soon as the text is adopted. It is also provided for in Rule 98, which also states that this evaluation must be submitted to Parliament within three years. This is a discussion that we will have again, I hope, in three years' time. Finally, in view of the number of professions in the sector, from authors-interpreters to producers, it is essential to hold a round table with all these actors at an early stage. This right to remuneration must be supported by the widest possible majority. I repeat, we will support the government's amendment, but I believe we are here at the beginning of a long process. I therefore urge you, despite the adoption of this draft, to continue the social dialogue because, despite the fears of the European Commission, this bill must be a win-win for the entire cultural and artistic sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u81	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee, we support the transposition of this European directive aimed at defending artists and performers against the big platforms by updating copyright and related rights to the digital space. At the first reading, I had pointed out that we were only half the way because, contrary to the law in force in Spain – a good pupil in Europe – the transposition did not concern all genres of the web but would have concerned only platforms for sharing content online, not those of videos on demand or streaming. We were planning to charge YouTube, but not Netflix or Spotify. Minister Dermagne told me a month ago that what I was proposing with the PTB was not the compromise that had emerged in the government's discussions. But, good news, the majority has corrected their bill to meet the demands of organizations that defend the interests of artists. We look forward to it. I am glad that the remark I made by the majority has been heard and that it has tilted the balance of the compromise to the left. That is why we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in autumn 2020 Streamz started in Flanders. Streamz is a new digital platform, the Flemish Netflix was said to be. Everyone was very enthusiastic about that, because nobody can be against a canal with Flemish fiction. At that time there was a remarkable testimony from Johan van Assche of the actors' guild, who pointed out that an actor doesn't have a cent of a series playing on Youtube, Netflix or on Streamz. If the same series is shown on TV, then there is a small amount of money left. That's very strange. When I look at the umpteenth replay of FC The Champions at home in my seat, that helps the actors. If my son is on top of his laptop looking at the new series of Undercover, then those actors will not be reimbursed for that. That's an illogical thing that couldn't be explained anymore. That is why Europe has created a directive to encourage Member States to ensure fair and proportionate remuneration for the online work of artists. In October 2021, after a very difficult period of corona for artists, the European Parliament called on all Member States to support those artists. This can be done by transposing this directive as quickly as possible and by ensuring appropriate compensation. In that resolution, it was literally about collective management as the best guarantee of continuous remuneration for artists and creators, in order to protect them from unfair practices by large media companies and streaming platforms. A large majority in the European Parliament has adopted this resolution because they want to support our artists. Two Belgian parties did not do so. Those are also the parties that are today opposed to this bill, the N-VA and the Flemish Interest. Those are the parties that often call the hardest for artists to earn their own money, but they always make it impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u83	I am very glad that you refer to that, Mr Verduyckt. Have you also read why we voted against this directive in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u84	I read that resolution very well. It asks us to do what we are doing here today, and you voted against it. If it's such a problem, you'll get a second chance today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u85	Mr Verduyckt, the reason why we voted against is the element I mentioned earlier. We fear that the free internet will be compromised by Article 13 of the directive, because there is no distinction between memes and parodys. Unlike all other parties present here, our party is for the free internet and against censorship. If you had read the explanation of vote, you would have known that was why we voted against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u86	What is before us today is not about that, Mrs Van Bossuyt. I'm referring to a resolution...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u87	We have voted against this directive for a reason other than the reason you are now quoting. If you had read the explanation of vote, you would have known it. It's clearly in there. It would be more intellectually honest to mention that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u88	May I conclude that in the resolution you saw dangers for the free internet, but that you did not have a problem with other provisions, such as the right to compensation and collective management, which we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u89	Mr Verduyckt, now you are contradicting yourself, because our criticism of what is going on today is due to the fact that the text contains two provisions which are not included in the directive, including the extension of its scope. The European Commission has explicitly stated that what the present draft law wants to introduce is not the intention of the directive or even the basis of the directive. That is why we are critical of this. Why we voted against the directive had a different basis. I deliberately did not say anything about it, because I did not want to discuss here which parties are for or against the free internet, but since you are quoting it yourself, I think it is appropriate to conclude that you are apparently in favour of censorship and against the free internet. That is how you voted in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u90	You're throwing things at a lot. You say that such a provision is not contained in the directive. With all due respect, of course, that's a false argument. I do not need to explain to you how a directive works; that is not a regulation. The directive is very clear. Article 18 states that the Länder must ensure appropriate, proportionate remuneration for artists and artists for online use of their work. The responsibility lies with the Länder. Article 17 says that Member States have the possibility to use different mechanisms to achieve that appropriate remuneration. That's what the government does. You're talking about a lot of problems today. You ask how one will determine who is or is not connected. You also include the whole discussion about the free internet and talk a lot about procedures and opinions, but what is the debate really about? The question we need to ask ourselves today is who is taking the real risk in the ecosystem you describe. Whose income for his family depends on his creative work? That is the crucial question. The answer to that is very clear to me. It is the artists who are taking the risk today because their income depends on it. Don't record companies or media companies take risks? Absolutely. But in the current market model, that is certainly not the only thing they are doing, otherwise they would not be here for a long time today. If it is up to us, they can certainly get some of the cake, but for us the artists, the artists, the actors, come first. That seems logical to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u91	Mr Verduyckt, you blame me for dragging everything, including the free Internet or not. When I expressed our concern about this, I just underlined that it is not a mistake in the draft law, because that simply translates the directive. You have dragged that issue into it by referring to our vote against the directive in the European Parliament, concluding that we would be against fair compensation for artists. It wasn't about that at all. That is why I referred to why we in the European Parliament voted against the directive. The directive must ensure harmonisation. This means that Member States' freedom of movement is limited. That is why the European Commission, to whom the government has explicitly asked for an opinion, has replied that the text in Belgium is not based in the directive, because it goes beyond what the directive seeks to harmonise. You started again about being for or against artists. That's not what this place is about. I also felt that Mr Vanbesien had a fair debate in committee. Because you find that you may have said something wrong, you want to put everything on bottles. I'm not going into that any further. You also say that artists take no risks. I believe that the artists will have to take much more risk because of what is now going on and that they will also have to share in the risk, which will reduce what they receive. What happens now? Session musicians receive a so-called flat fee for the session, when a recording is made. The compulsory membership of collective management companies and the inalienable right will also require them to share in the risk, which will reduce their flat fee. It doesn't seem to me to be in favour of the artists. In any case, it seems to me that there are a lot of points of discussion here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u92	Mrs Van Bossuyt, for the record, I did not say that the artists are not taking any risks, I would point out that this is the essential part of the whole story. It is precisely because they take that creative risk that we believe they should come first and receive that right of compensation. You are here today arguing for the maintenance of a system in which actors and singers depend on the media company or record company to which they are affiliated. Let me tell you the story of Universal Music, which I'm sure you've also read. That company paid a € 275 million bonus to its CEO in 2022. That's what people have money for. That amount is higher than all royalties for a whole year of all artists who are members of the company. That is the ecosystem that you are calling for today to preserve. We say no to that. We are choosing the path chosen by the government, which goes for the untransferable right of compensation. When I hear the N-VA and the Flemish Interest about the cultural sector, I always hear that the cultural sector receives too much subsidies. However, musicians and actors would like to stand on their own two feet. These are creative entrepreneurs who would love to stand on their own two feet. It is therefore only logical that they should receive appropriate and fair remuneration for their work. They are small self-employed people who create prosperity in our country, pay taxes here and give colour to our country. It is therefore only logical that we should consider them for compensation. However, I would also like to comment on a number of other points that have been touched on here. Firstly, Mr Van Lommel, you said that it all took too long and came too late. Now, however, you make a plea for an impact analysis and additional consultation. The consultation has been ongoing since 2019. So that's not really in proportion. Secondly, Mr Van Lommel, as far as collective management is concerned, that is quite logical. When we look at the sector, it is often about vulnerable entrepreneurs who cannot make a fist against the platforms. It is therefore only logical that they gather in collective management, which is provided for by the present law when there is no agreement. You claim that it is mandatory, but that is absolutely not true, the possibility is offered here, but that is the logic itself. Do you think that for example Camille Dhont herself will call YouTube to ask if she can get the money she is entitled to broadcast her videos on the channel? At least 85% of the collective management companies are distributed to the shareholders, i.e. the artists. At least 85%! Call me one record company that does better. You won't find one. It is therefore logical to opt for this system. I also told you just now that the record companies and media companies themselves are collecting through collective management today. I have already quoted the opinions of De Acteurs Guild and De Muzieggilde. I would like to say something to Mrs Van Bossuyt. You did not repeat it today, but in committee you told me that this is just a bad thing. The cake should be divided by many more parties and there would be less money. That's not true, of course. Because we're cutting a bigger cake today. We ensure that the rights of online exploitation end up with our artists. There are a lot of platforms like YouTube, Spotify, Netflix and Facebook today that don't pay or don't pay enough. As a result of the new exploitation, more money will be available, including for performers. The transposition of Article 17 is the result of years of battle, in which platforms such as Facebook, YouTube and others have not paid or not paid enough for the use of music or movies so far. Pretending there will be less money is therefore not correct. The attack on collective management is simply a reason not to have to answer the question of whether you think that artists should receive appropriate and correct compensation through this right of compensation. That is a question you will never answer. You say it's not about whether you're for or against artists, but in the end we make a choice that has a big impact on their income. You also said that it was too complex, that it would take too long and that we see that in Germany too. I also read these arguments in the opinions of Google and YouTube. They wrote us the same thing. You choose to take over these arguments. However, YouTube and Google are companies that have a direct interest in the absence of this remuneration. Mr Van Lommel also referred to such an opinion. Of course, the streaming services have not been won for this, Mr Van Lommel. They have to pay to the artists and, of course, they don't like it. If Google was really into our artists, they would have paid an appropriate fee out of their billions of turnover for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u93	Madam President, for the report I would like to express my joy and satisfaction at the fact that Mr Verduyckt has supported the principle that our group has been supporting it for a long time, namely that an artist should, in principle, be able to stand on his own feet. I am very happy about that, that is a very good evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u94	For the report, too, I have said that this is something you always say. You have a unique opportunity here to do something about it and you don't give at home. That's so weird to me. I have heard the same arguments here today as in committee, but they have actually been rejected for a long time. Today we make an essential choice. We say that artists are entitled to an appropriate, correct remuneration, through a system that brings the money directly to them. We no longer choose a model in which they get the crumbs after the record companies have partially eaten the cake. I have heard today that a broad majority will support this bill, and we are very pleased about that. Belgium takes responsibility today and does not respond to the European Parliament's call in the resolution in question, Mrs Van Bossuyt, in the directive, in order to ensure the appropriate remuneration. We believe that investing in artists by properly compensating them will ensure that they are more and better able, that they can focus on what they are really good at and that they know that there is legislation that they can fall back on. I would like to thank the Minister for the work he has done, as well as anyone who has made this possible behind the scenes. This legislative text will, of course, be adopted shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u95	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was important that the issue of the rights of authors, artists, performers and performers in the exploitation of their works should be dealt with at European level. The adoption of a harmonized framework in this area should discourage competition between national frameworks and avoid loopholes for each other. We were therefore pleased with the adoption of the European directive. Its transposition into Belgian law is therefore important. As a first step, it took place in good intelligence and in close collaboration and consultation with stakeholders. And then, for reasons that are beyond our control - and I am relaying today Vanessa Matz, who had participated in the debates in committee and who will join us later - the government decided to go beyond what the European directive provides by inserting Articles 54 and 59. Mr Minister, you, who are also in charge of employment, have chosen not to consult the parties concerned about these articles. Obviously, you only use consultation when it suits you, since you have bypassed it in this case. In addition, you have decided to move forward without submitting these articles to the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State, despite the comment of the European Commission. I am looking at my colleagues in the MR, to whom I point out that European Commissioner Reynders - whom you know very well - has delivered an opinion which considers these provisions to be contrary to European law. It is true that the provisions in these articles may seem sympathetic. In principle, we are not opposed to it, on the contrary. But the way in which you have done things, their fragility, the fact that they are likely to undermine the necessary harmonisation at European level are problematic. This harmonisation was still the objective of the directive. There is also a problem with the fact that these articles undermine the legal certainty of the entire system. In fact, these articles may tomorrow be brought before the Constitutional Court or indirectly before the Court of Justice of the European Union. These two famous articles lead to a complete weakening of the framework. This is of great concern to us because it may disappoint those who are to be supported by these provisions, and cause very clear difficulties in setting up the system. In this case, Minister, the best the government claims to bring is in fact the enemy of the good of simply transposing the directive. For these reasons, my group will abstain. In fact, we are particularly concerned about the attitude of the majority towards rejection. The majority refuses to take a minimum of precautions by consulting the Council of State. I remind you that you normally had an obligation to do so. The majority also refuses to discuss these new provisions with all stakeholders. It's pretty incomprehensible and it's going to be worse than good tomorrow. Finally, we fear, as you will have understood, that these Articles 54 and 59, which go beyond the content of the directive, will turn against those who hoped to benefit from it. For all these reasons, you will have understood that we will abstain from this text. It is not ruled out, minister, that this case should be heard later on. I heard one or the other fellow Member of the majority letting some of the elements in their speeches be unobtrusive. We will then see how you managed this issue in Parliament, but also - and I am looking at the parties of the majority - within the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u96	Madam President, I have already said in committee that I understand Mrs Van Bossuyt's intervention and certainly respect the passion with which she is defending this dossier, as well as Mr Verduyckt's passion. Today, too, it is clear in this debate that the main point of discussion is the way in which compensation for artists is organised. On this particular point, we have asked for many opinions and received many opinions. Even after the vote in committee, we have received several messages from both sides, probably just like us. Those advices go both ways. Half of them are for the way in which this bill implements the directive. The other half is against the way. I also said in committee that we should make a choice. It's our job to make and capture those choices. It is no coincidence that the government has been debating this very long. So I understand the arguments of both sides, but I am not convinced of the opposition's argument that the government is making the wrong choice here. Nor am I convinced that this implementation would go against the European directive. Mrs Fonck, you do not understand why the government has made the choice, pour des raisons qui nos échapt. I understand that you don't know why they did that. I don't understand why you're saying that. That is precisely what the debate was about. That's what we've been discussing for hours. That's what all these opinions have come up on. This has also been explained in detail by the government. Those reasons should be clear. You may agree or disagree, but those reasons have indeed been explained and discussed. If you are looking for a line in those opinions we have received, it is mainly the platforms and the large companies and producers who are not in agreement with the proposal. It is mainly the performers and the artists who are in favour. That has nothing to do with naming producers as profiteers. That's a suggestion that goes side by side with the issue. It is precisely for this reason that I also understand their arguments. In this kind of situation where a weaker partner is opposed to a stronger partner, the Ecolo Green Group always tries to draw the map of the weaker partner in the relationship. So that's the choice we have to make here today. We are in favour of protecting the executive, and we are therefore in favour of the way in which the draft law is put to the vote, and we will support it with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u97	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the discussions in plenary but also in committee on this important bill to transpose a directive. I will return in a few moments to the various elements and political choices that have been made. I have heard and read several times that this text has not been sufficiently agreed. I would remind you that there have been several rounds of consultation with the sector. First of all, there was a long consultation with the various actors in the IP Council in 2020. In 2021, there was a consultation at intercabinets meetings at the time of the preparatory legislative work. Finally, there has been a series of opinions sent to the committee at the legitimate request of Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u98	I have a question for you, Minister. You referred to your meetings with the sector in committee, but you did not mention that they took place for the submission of these two amendments, which are now the subject of discussion. It is easy to say that consultation has taken place when the essence of the matter has not been discussed. I find that rather special.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u99	This is a somewhat special exercise, Madam President. I thought I could answer and hear the replies of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u100	It is a tradition for the minister to be able to respond. The answer can be followed by possible interventions. If the minister has to add something, he does, otherwise it is not possible. May he at least be able to answer the questions asked of him! And if there are any other questions, they will be asked later. We agree, Mr. Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, these various elements were put on the table during the discussions in the Intellectual Property Council. The representatives of the Council who were present in committee confirmed this to me during the discussions: these positions have been put on the table, exchanged and have been known for a long time. And indeed, we decided to make a choice, as Spain did, as Germany did, for the benefit of the weaker party in the relationship. And it's not opposing one side to another, it's making a political choice. And this political choice is now taken care of. It is true that the untransferable right of remuneration with mandatory collective management for streaming was added after the opinion of the Council of State. However, that is only copy-pastet of a similar article in Book XI, Title 5 of the Economic Law Code. That is not a leap in the dark, because compulsory collective management has existed in Belgium since 1998. The new law provides a clear definition of the relevant platforms. Nothing new on the substance, nothing new on the practice. The collective management of rights has indeed been known in Belgium since 1994 and is also known in the European Union. I come back to Mrs Reuter's request to launch a consultation on the implementation of the law once it has been passed. Of course, I am happy to subscribe to it. A process of consultation on the implementation and enforcement of the law will be launched at the end of this month. In addition, as foreseen in the text and as Ms Reuter pointed out, an evaluation is planned after three years. But I don't want to wait three years. To be very clear with you, I want to make this dossier one of the dossiers for the Belgian Presidency of the European Union and, in the framework of this Presidency, to ensure that we, together with all the Member States, can look at how this directive has been transposed into the 27 Member States. In the first half of 2024, this dossier will return to the table of the European Council. This will be a priority for the Belgian Presidency of the European Union. I also heard that the impact had not been measured. We know the impact assessment. In the past, remuneration rights, comparable to the one created, have not been prejudicial. On the contrary, it was recalled by Mr Verduyckt. The impact will depend on how the reform will be implemented by the various actors. I believe in the collective intelligence of the various players in the chain to ensure that this transposition and the implementation of the law – which I hope you will vote in a few moments – are a success for all parties. Each party has a common interest in the success of this implementation since all parties have an interest in the circulation of works and performances. I am convinced that a collective agreement will be a good way to implement this reform. I also believe that sectoral specificities will be taken into account in the agreements to be concluded between the various parties. Some spoke of a risk of isolation from Belgium. I repeat, and others have done so before me, and we will not be the only ones to implement this directive in an ambitious way; indeed, important countries in the European Union, Germany and Spain, have done so and have preceded us. It was said that the proactive way in which the directive was transposed provided a possible layer of administrative complexities for the different parties. I am convinced that the sum of the problems to be solved in collective bargaining is less than the sum of the problems to be solved in the plurality of individual negotiations. It is also a choice made by some independent music producers who have had the experience of negotiating individually on their own behalf and have themselves opted for collective management through the Merlin company. The company has been regarded in Europe as a collective management body, which is also controlled by the regulator of the European country in which it has its headquarters. For artists, we are also part of this logic of collective management. I also heard that this reform was being considered without evidence-based. I don't think that's the case. The analysis is well known. In this regard, I refer you to the June 2021 study commissioned by the World Intellectual Property Organization and discussed in a group of national experts. This study is based in particular on data published by Spotify which clearly confirms the obvious imbalance in disfavor of artists. This imbalance is widely recognized. The French Presidency of the European Union has obtained the opinions of the Member States on the subject. As you know, the European Parliament made the same observation in its resolution of 20 October 2021. The solution chosen is not a leap in the void, as I said. Compulsory collective management has existed in Belgium since 1994. Today, it applies to compulsory licences, reprographies, private copies, public loans, fair remuneration, follow-on fees and remuneration for teaching and scientific research. It also applies to cable retransmission. I repeat that the text is ambitious. It does not generate any legal uncertainty. However, its implementation will have to be accompanied. That is why, as Mr Vicar has mentioned, the IBPT has been entrusted with the task of accompanying the process and putting oil in the workings of collective bargaining which will take place in accordance with this text. As a reminder, according to the latest figures available from the Management Companies Control Service, in 2020, compulsory collective management in Belgium allowed management companies to collect EUR 120 million from users and to pay EUR 100 million to the rightholders. It is therefore a reasonable share that belongs to those who create content, who carry out artistic productions. As I have already said, the text is ambitious and, in my view, responds to the concerns of a large part of the sector and, in particular, artists who create content.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u102	I will certainly not repeat the whole debate, Minister, but I would like to pick up on some of the points you have raised. You refer to your meetings with the sector, but you happen to forget to mention that they took place before submitting these important amendments. You are shaking your head in denial, but we have heard other things, especially with regard to the last amendments, which extended the scope even further. You refer to the Intellectual Property Council. We have, like you, received a letter from members of that council stating that they would never have agreed to such changes if they had been submitted to them. I find it bizarre that when such fundamental changes are in the pipeline, you state that you are aware of their impact, which would not require impact analysis. The European Commission takes a different view from the Belgian Government. The majority think they're omniscient. On the basis of the various signals from the sector, a different conclusion could be reached. I referred earlier to the typical ecosystem of the sector. A particular feature of an ecosystem is that a single change can cause a chain reaction of changes. Surely we do not want the fair compensation, which the artists are entitled to, to be compromised? Sometimes, at first glance, certain things seem sympathetic, but on second thought, they can generate an opposite effect. I would like to refer to something that was previously approved, although not by our group, namely the automatic availability of audiovisual work in other Member States after placing the work online in the country where it was produced. At first glance, that seems logical, but it has the opposite effect as a result, just because of the specific ecosystem. Let me explain why. You yourself referred to Undercover, a successful Flemish fiction series. For such series, funding is first sought. Of course, in return, the financiers want the exclusive right to resell the series in other Member States. If, of course, the country of origin principle is introduced now, then Undercover must be available automatically in all the other Member States when the series comes out in Belgium. Then the financiers will no longer be willing to bear the risk, because they will no longer be able to negotiate in the other Member States to market the series there. This shows how the change of one element in an ecosystem can have far-reaching consequences. We fear that this will also be the case with what is now going on and that we will not achieve the objective that we all have in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u103	Once again, Minister, for the sake of clarity, we are not opposed to fair compensation for artists. However, we make a very clear reservation about the changes that were made after you had drawn up the preliminary draft with the government. Just now, as in the committee, you referred to the many discussions that took place between 2019 and 2021. That is all true, and I am pleased that you have had those talks, but in the end you have made a preliminary draft with your cabinet, which you have sent to the Council of State, after which you have decided to change the preliminary draft, and then make further amendments at second reading. There has been no further consultation on these last two amendments. Only the initial text has been discussed. You point out that the government has already made a decision and made a certain choice. That is indeed your right; you must make decisions and make choices. However, I still find it very strange that you should submit to the Council of State a preliminary draft which deals with the exact transposition of the directive, so that, when all the opinions of the Council of State are in place, everything can be overturned. In committee, too, you did not respond sufficiently to this criticism. You also argue today that there is no need for impact analysis, as you know the impact. But you can't give a single number. You act on feeling. You look at Spain and decide that it has come to a good conclusion and that it will be the case here. What the hell is wrong with an impact analysis, with a serious study? If you've been sitting around the table with those involved for years, as you say, what does that make a little extra time to make an impact analysis, then? Every time it comes to that, you spin around the pot. You did that on the committee, and you are doing it again today. You actually act on feeling. You don't convince me, you don't prove anything. I'm just as sorry about that now. The initial transposition of the European directive would have been fully supported here today, because artists are entitled to fair compensation. But against all the provisions that were made after that, to which the European Commission has reservations, and where there is even a risk of legal uncertainty, we say quite clearly no. That is why we do not support the draft law today. Mr Verduyckt can claim here hundreds of times that we are against the artists, which is not correct. The point is that a link is being changed that will have an impact on all other aspects of the ecosystem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u104	Madam President, I shall reply at the same time to the Minister and to Mr Vanbesien. Yes, Mr Vanbesien, I do not understand why the government chose to circumvent the Council of State by means of amendments to Articles 54 and 59 or why it decided to avoid any agreement on the same articles. It's not trivial! In my opinion, it is mainly for political reasons. On the bottom, to sum up, you answer that you're going to defend the little ones against the big ones. All right! It's nice, and I can understand that logic. You explain that with these amendments, artists will receive more money from the main digital players through a collective management company. Point! You're not saying anything else. Is it really that simple? Maybe, but maybe not. We are still waiting for the moment from which artists can be better compensated. The future will tell us. You have obviously chosen to go beyond the European directive, bypassing the Council of State and avoiding any consultation. So we will see what happens. It is for all these reasons that we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u105	Mr Van Lommel says I blame him for being against the artists. Mr Van Lommel, you say so yourself. You say that you do not agree with everything that has been added after this pure transposition. What's that about? It's about the untransferable right the artists ask about and the addition of Netflix, Spotify and others. I asked you whether you did not agree that these international payment forums should be included in the story, but you do not answer that. I know how you feel about that. You'd rather leave those big international platforms alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u106	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u107	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2608/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2608/7) The bill has 100 articles. The draft law has 100 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u109	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Ms Lanjri, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this draft law must transpose European legislation into national law. We could talk about the procedure, not a textbook example of good governance. It's richly late, among other things. That is not just what we say, but also the Council of State. To talk immediately about the content, the question is whether this bill will prevent the abuse of posting in the transport sector in that country. I would like to stress that Belgium is a major exception in the European landscape when it comes to posting, because it has become a rule rather than an exception, especially when it comes to the transport sector. More than half of the lorries on our roads run with foreign plates, where posting in all other European countries is rather the exception, whatever it should be. The question is why our country is so "attractive" for posting. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that the wage costs in Belgium are extremely high. That's something this bill doesn't solve. It's something this government could do about, but you're not doing it. That's, to put it mildly, not your strongest yard. The labour cost handicap is moving towards 16% again. What she's ever been, she's again now, and that's not a good thing. That's kicking in an open door, but you're letting it go. A second reason why this country is so attractive for posting is that we have a lot of open vacancies. It is therefore logical that in this country employers use every straw to fill open vacancies that are so difficult to fill. Posting is indeed one of the means. This bill does not solve that, but it is something you could deal with with with the government, triggering the millions of inactive people in this country. But you don't either, and that remains a set-aside ground. The third point that makes posting so attractive in our country is because there is very little control of it. It is not always easy, but there is hardly any control over those who are posted to Belgium, or, for example, they pay taxes. This draft law does not resolve this either. Of course, that is also logical, because this draft law merely aims to transpose European legislation into national law. You nod in agreement, but that obviously means that you have to solve it yourself and you do not. That's too bad. The problem at European level is for us that the maximum duration of secondment, with RSZ in the home country, is far too long. If that could be shortened, it would already help us a great deal with our very generous social security, which also makes us particularly attractive to many other European countries. What is important is that we have also discussed this in committee, and I would like to repeat it here, that in recent years several attempts have been made in Europe to further relax the rules on posting. Belgium has always voted against it and well, for the reasons I have just mentioned. Until the Croo government, until Vivaldi, came to power. Then the vote against was already watered down towards abstinence. Why was it still abstinence and not even a vote in favour? Because only Flanders held that vote against, so the consensus in this country could never be a vote in favour. Because of the Flemish government, we are not sitting here with the fried pears. I spoke to you about this in committee, and you said very clearly at that time that you are not in favour of further easing. I think this is the most relevant today. I find this particularly interesting, especially when I see that all governments, in which your party is an important partner, do not hold a vote against it. I would therefore urge you to do everything in your power, Minister, to use all your knowledge, skills and influence, because you are a very authoritative voice in your party, and therefore in all the governments of which your party is a member, not to relax posting further, but even to tighten up a number of rules at European level. At the same time, I would also ask you to get on with your own government work when it comes to triggering and controlling wage costs. I can already hear people thinking: if wage costs are to be controlled, people are not going to make enough money. However, one can perfectly go hand in hand with the other if the government is sufficiently united, so that people will have more left at the end of the month without the wage costs getting out of control, without compromising the competitiveness of our companies, even more so, you must urgently strengthen that. If you do not do so, then you are threatening to mop up in this country with the tap open into a true art, Minister. I hope that's not your ambition. Hence my warm call to your address.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u111	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall today that the adoption of this transposition is the result of a victory upstream in the European Parliament, where my colleague, Hughes Bayet, supported the adoption of the directive in the discussions on the Mobility package. Welcomed by European trade unions, the adoption of the directive was already an important step in the protection of workers. This transposition is today an important tool for combating social dumping, which you have made a priority, in particular by planning to hire 50 additional social inspectors in 2022. I see it in so many cases today, the fight against social fraud in the field of labour exploitation is really a crucial issue for the protection of workers: in the matter of delivery of parcels with the scandal of child labour at PostNL, (the hearings I attended yesterday clearly show the conditions of modern slavery found in this sector); in the brokers who pedal for Deliveroo and Uber Eats; in the construction, among undocumented domestic workers, who protested this noon to denounce the exploitation they were subjected to on a daily basis; in the securities-services sector which had published their black book a year ago. It must be tackled with all the necessary means. We are in the twenty-first century, these working conditions are not tolerable. This project is a step in this direction and we count on you to provide further answers to these unacceptable operating situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u112	Madam President, in some cases one should already be satisfied with very small steps in the right direction. This is one of those files. Only three weeks ago, in plenary, I defended Resolution 979, which sought to stop social dumping and make the rules on posting stricter and stricter. Today there is such a small entanglement for the vote in the hemisphere. This draft law concerns the transposition of a European directive which should have been transposed by 2 February 2022 at the latest. Even in the dossiers for which there is a majority in the hemisphere, we are unable to meet our deadlines. For example, the necessary advice from the Data Protection Authority was requested only on 19 January 2022. That's like a student discovering that there are exams coming in early June. Your fellow Minister and Professor Frank Vandenbroucke will confirm, those students will be hopelessly late and won't make it. That is perhaps also the fate of this coalition, but that aside. However, we can endorse the aim of the draft law before us. It wants to stop social dumping practices in the transport sector. We must stop unfair competition, especially from drivers from Eastern Europe. This unfair competition ensures that our transport companies are competitive from the market. The legislation before us is too limited for the Flemish Interest. It shall focus only on seconded directors. Furthermore, the control system provided for is rather complex and is not yet fully waterproof due to the lack of smart tachographs, but better than no regulation. It is also particularly regrettable that the government needs Europe to intervene. It should, by means of its own legislation, better protect our transport companies from social dumping. However, not only the Flemish interest commented. The Council of State was very critical of the legislative work, the Advisory Council of Social Criminal Law as well as the NAR denounced the lack of consultation with the sectors concerned. They are also afraid of the complex and sometimes very unclear wordings in the design. The legislator sometimes seems to forget that the self-employed transporters do not all reach the legal level of the members of the Constitutional Court. Also, the criticism of the Data Protection Authority is not easy and is in line with our earlier remark on clarity and therefore legal certainty. This European directive has been considerably weakened by the many lobbying work from Eastern European countries. However, as we have just said, we prefer something rather than nothing. My party is on the side of the Flemish truck driver who continues to oppose social dumping through the European Posting of Workers Directive and certainly against those who also fraud. Mandatory companies to pay social security contributions in our country. Shortly shorten the posting period and tackle the chain of fraud and abuse around posted workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u113	Madam President, this is a bill that is a transcript of a European directive that should have been transcribed before 2 February. This bill is the result of the struggle of trade unions who are trying to organize this sector, which is not in a simple situation. We will support this project because, in an area where there is artistic uncertainty due to the absence of rules, it will require employers to provide more documents to workers, including contracts and working hours, so as to facilitate controls and punish employers who do not comply with the basic rules. That's a good thing. The reality is not simple for these workers. Too many drivers drive hours and sleep a few minutes in their cabin. How many drivers get on their way without knowing when they'll have the opportunity to go home? How many drivers are left without any guarantee of having actual holidays or days of rest, with the result that they take the risk of falling asleep while driving? Working at such a pace also leads to health problems earlier in their careers. However, we have a few comments on this draft. The first is that this project does not concern all drivers and excludes those who travel from one country to another. The second – from trade union organisations – is that they have not been sufficiently involved in the process to lead to this project. The government even said that it was not competent to do so. This is not our opinion because the workers in this sector are very scattered, very isolated and, in the end, it is the unions that try to organize them and bring them together. Trade unions have the expertise and the best knowledge of the field. The third criticism we make is the following. It is good to have more restrictive rules in order to be able to punish companies that do not comply with the basic rules, but to do so we need strong inspection services, inspection services worthy of that name. Let's not face it! Let us say it frankly: this is not the case today! However, if we want to tackle this project, we will have to invest well in inspection. Otherwise, we may be happy to have a nice bill, but in reality nothing will change.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned here on several occasions that this legislative proposal implements the revised European Posting of Workers Directive. It is, of course, a European compromise. I would have preferred the compromise to go much wider and farther. It certainly should have been more for me. Nevertheless, it is a step forward in the protection of drivers. This is also recognised by the international transport trade unions. It is true that too many drivers are currently working under inhumane conditions. Driving and rest periods are not respected. They live and work in their trucks and are forced to camp in car parks along the motorway. Last Tuesday, during a hearing in the Committee on Social Affairs, representatives of the inspection services and employers' organisations received a large number of figures on parcel courier services, services involving the whole transport sector. Well, even when checks............................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's not due to the drivers. They are always subject to the business model more for less and always cheaper, model at the expense of drivers, their health, their families and the road safety of all of us. The draft law is a step forward in protection, because the design prohibits drivers from living and working in their cabin for months to come. They have to go home at some point. Rules are also laid down on the flow of information in order to better enforce and control the law. I hope, at least, that checks will be carried out. To this end, Minister, I would once again urge that work be carried out on the planned recruitment of 45 additional inspectors. I think it is also important to have specific profiles, as Mr Ben Segers has just said, because monitoring of posting is not easy. Companies go bankrupt easily and use a different mailbox. They disappear off the radar to start the same game soon. We are dealing with very complex dossiers. That calls for specialist profiles. Yesterday I followed the employment conference. A number of recommendations have also been made on posting. There were voices that there are enough rules and that it is now a question of enforcement and control, but on the other hand I also heard concrete proposals for improvement. The European Labour Auditorate would start with a prevention campaign, as you said in committee. It is used for international control. Finally, I wonder to what extent the sector will be involved. The ABVV-BTB has a black book. The unionists are constantly on the ground and can sometimes indicate faster than the government that a firm simply moves to start over elsewhere. Trade unionists also hear a lot of stories from the drivers. I think cooperation is important. In my opinion, the problem is a business model under the motto "always cheaper." An IKEA cabinet costs a few cents more when it is transported through fair transport. So that really can't make the big difference for the price. Anyone who is active in the sector must work together so that we can put an end to these inhuman conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u115	Minister, I think we all agree that the issues in this bill are extremely important. Indeed, the transposition of the European directive contributes to many positive elements in a sector which suffers terribly from social dumping with thousands of SMEs in difficulty and practices which draw down wages but also working conditions. We will therefore support this bill, which is a transposition of a European directive. However, let me make two comments. The first concerns social consultation and the lesson to be learned from the way it was conducted in this case. I do not remind you that the first report of the National Labour Council was terribly unfavourable to your original bill. After that, you took it into account and integrated the remarks. Here I would like to highlight the following point. The social partners had made repeated requests, through the chairman of the Joint Committee, to be involved not, as you have done, after drafting the bill but from the beginning of the process of drafting the transposition text, which dates back to early June 2021. In a matter such as this, there is a real need for the field and the social partners to move the issues forward in the right direction, from the very beginning of the management of the case. However, there has been a waste of time, which is not a reflection of positive and modern cooperation. It's a lesson to learn. The second comment I would like to make concerns the effectiveness of monitoring and combating social dumping. These are political priorities for us. We believe that the forces on the ground are insufficient, while this is a major issue. How can we ensure that controls will be carried out when we have been observing – for too long – the understaffing in the administration, especially in the control and inspection services? Controls have been carried out in the transport sector. In looking at the number of transits, trucks, and related devices, given the number of checks carried out, we must conclude that there is a problem, minister. This is all the more true since the checks show that only 35% of infringements have been detected. It seems to me that this proves that certain practices must be sanctioned and that more checks must be carried out in relation to today. This is essential for the workers concerned and for our SMEs. Similarly, it is essential to stop social dumping and unfair competition. You promised the commitment of fifty additional tax auditors. The Court of Auditors' report is unequivocal: only six new inspectors have taken up their duties. So we're a long way from the point of view. If we support the bill, we urge the government to take control, so that the fight against social dumping is much more effective and the sector is much better regulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u116	Madam President, not all political groups have taken the floor on this bill, but the groups that have done so agree, as I all agree, that there can be no soldiers for the working conditions of those working in our country, that there can be no soldiers for the working conditions and that we must make people contribute as much as possible to social security when they work in this country. These are principles that everyone here supports, at least the groups that have taken the floor. Mr Vanrobaeys has said that it is exactly a business model, that it must always be cheaper, but it is not that simple. The question is how to tackle the problem at the root. Why is that important? Other colleagues have said that controls must be stepped up. I have made a number of suggestions on how we can do this, for example with regard to labour costs, the competitiveness of our companies and the open vacancies that are not filled, but it would be more useful to consider whether we need to provide more capacity to check or whether we can strive to check fewer. For example, if we could reduce the posting in this country to a level similar to that in the other countries, that would be 50,000 full-time equivalents that we could have filled in in another way, with regular employment. That would be a very nice ambition. Then a number of advantages would be linked. I would like to argue in favour of trying to tackle the problem at the root as much as possible with regard to posting. For a good understanding, I did not say that the postings should stop, but it would be good if they could be reduced to normal proportions, similar to those in other European countries. Then some of the challenges we face today - which I fully agree with when it comes to working conditions, working conditions and monitoring - will perhaps be feasible. Hence my plea earlier, which I wanted to repeat briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u117	Mr Anseuw, since you mentioned me, I would also like to respond. I have indeed said that it is a business model, more and more for less. You said we need to cut labour costs. I believe that the government has already taken a step forward for low wages. However, I would like to point out that some companies are not prepared to pay for a small hotel when workers have to stop on weekends so that people can spend the weekend and rest properly. How far are we supposed to go? It's a race to the bottom and at some point it has to stop. After all, it must remain reasonable. People who work, from wherever they come, are entitled to fair pay and strong social protection. Whoever works contributes and needs to get something in return. I don't think we should follow this race to the bottom completely, because it goes on and on. In the past, hotels were booked, now these people are in a parking lot along the E40.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u118	Madam President, I want to take advantage of the second round to avoid giving the illusion that those who have spoken agree on the same criticism. That's not the case! Beyond this project, we believe that much more comprehensive reflection is needed on how to combat social dumping. For this reason, we must indeed dare to tackle the problem at the root, provided we agree on the root of the problem. In our view, we will not be able to do this if we are content with proposals at the Belgian level, even if it is important that we take each of the positions where we are. The dogmas of what we really call free competition at European level will really have to be reviewed. It will really be necessary to review certain fundamental rules, always at European level, to stop this endless subcontracting chain and also to fight against the practices of companies that use the famous mailboxes. There is also the question of the European minimum wage. The problem must be tackled both at national and European level. All this social dumping does not serve first of all some workers who would benefit from one thing or the other but it serves the multinationals who organize the competition to make more profit by making people work at the lowest wage and in poor working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u119	Mrs Vanrobaeys, I did not criticise at all what you said. I have just made a number of suggestions to make the task we are facing on the actual use of secondment feasible in this country. I have listed some of the advantages that we could achieve. In fact, I think we agree on that. I have also made some suggestions regarding factors that can play a part, but I am prepared to listen to other suggestions from colleagues. I believe, however, that I have made a very constructive contribution in the field of posting, in a very nuanced way. It is true, however, that I have addressed the Minister and the Government on their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u120	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u121	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2687/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2687/3) The bill has 37 articles. The draft law has 37 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Frieda Gijbels, referred to her written report. We thank him for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u124	Madam President, on behalf of the MR Group, I would like to welcome this project, which confirms that human health, environmental health and animal health are essential and linked to each other. The WHO has made this interconnection a concept called "one world, one health" to make every effort to minimize the overall impact of animal diseases. The current situation confirms the importance of the organisational and legal arrangements provided for in this project for the safety of the food chain and the control of potential interactions between food and health products. To this end, the proposed project guarantees a professional framework for the trade in foodstuffs and for the nutritional monitoring of the food supplements produced, the consumption of which is growing increasingly. Within the framework of the regulations brought about by this project, the Advisory Council on Food Policy and the Use of Consumer Products is systematically integrated and requested. In addition, a Nutri-vigilance Committee will be established to identify and evaluate the side effects of these supplements and foods, which is essential to control, adapt and thus protect the consumer. The draft also provides for a reminder of the law of labelling statements in the language of the Language Region where the product is marketed. This is important in terms of informed access, respect and consumer protection. In addition, a tolerance period for producers and resellers is provided for a period of one and a half years. It's also a good thing. Two other elements are worth noting: the strengthening of regulation in the face of antimicrobial resistance and support for the pig sector. Indeed, thanks to this text, the AFSCA will be able to initiate stronger and more targeted measures vis-à-vis large antibiotic users. This project also strengthens the budget fund for the health and quality of animals and animal products for the research and development of the sector. In addition, collaboration with the Public Health FPS was confirmed during the committee discussions. It's also very favorable. This necessary European transposition and these elements to strengthen consumer protection are important advances. We thank the government for this project. It goes without saying that everything is in the right direction and the MR will support the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u125	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u126	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2634/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2634/1) The bill has 40 articles. The draft law has 40 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u128	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u129	Madam President, I refer to my written report. I will speak later on behalf of my group, if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u130	The Government is validly represented. So you have the floor, Mr Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u131	Madam President, it is striking that Mr Clarinval is not here. It might be understandable, too. If Liberals were to win such a big trophy, I wouldn't be able to defend it either. I'd be a little embarrassed about that, too. I'll explain later why. What do entrepreneurs need today? What do self-employed people need today? They need administrative simplification. Mr. Clarinval just came in. Welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u132	Welcome, Mr. Clarinval. We've just started.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u133	Minister, I'm glad you're here. I was afraid you wouldn't come. Welcome! Minister, today entrepreneurs need administrative simplification and structural measures to safeguard and strengthen competitiveness. We cannot ignore the fact that the labour cost handicap is again heading at 16%. This has already happened once and the previous government has succeeded in eliminating this labour cost handicap. Now we're back to square one. Therefore, more than ever, measures are needed to strengthen the productivity of our companies. It is about flexibility, but also about costs per hour worked. This is a particularly interesting parameter because it is much more representative of the cost of enterprise in this country if one wants to make the comparison with other countries. Another urgent package of measures should ensure that inactive people are activated. There are over 200,000 vacancies that are not filled. This jeopardises the functioning of businesses and reduces the prosperity of our society. To date, however, the government has mainly supported and encouraged inactivity. The living wage will be increased by more than 12% by 2024 and unemployment benefits by 8%, without including indexations. To tackle all these structural problems of the self-employed, you have enchanted an incredibly strong measure out of your hat. You will give the starting self-employed a one-off allowance of 100 euros. So we are discussing a draft law to stop starting self-employed people from paying 100 euros. The time we put into it now is probably more expensive than the return on investment in our self-employed. But the worst thing of all is that it is a shameful misapprehension of entrepreneurs and their entrepreneurship to reduce it to a premium of 100 euros, a charity, something you give to your goddaughter in a good report. The highlight of cynicism is that you have the invoice of that alms paid for a piece by the self-employed. After all, the money for it comes from fiscal resources, and who pays the taxes? Among other things, the self-employed. So you're gonna give them another shot. Still, it could be worse. Actually, you're laughing at them in the face. In the committee, you said so, and I quote literally: 'a symbolic contribution, which is visible'. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, its own symbolic contribution is that it does not in fact solve anything, that it does not make any difference in the facts. Still, there had to be something visible. This is clearly the only thing that the liberals on the carpet market, which the Croo government has become in the meantime, have brought in for the self-employed. The EUR 100 is in stark contrast to the many billions that the Socialists in this government have already spent on helping people to get to work. That makes it clear forever who is in charge here, but it is also clear who is paying the price here, and those are the people who are doing business, the people who are working. Well, Minister, I only have one call. If that's all you can do, stop it. With this measure, you will not solve anything. The only thing you are doing is disrespecting entrepreneurship in this country in a shameful way. Our self-employed people deserve much better than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u134	Madam President, in the context of the EUR 300 million tax shift from this government, the self-employed also get something, albeit peanuts. It is about EUR 6.8 million to increase their purchasing power. With nearly 1.2 million registered self-employed persons at the social greenhouses, this is about 5.66 euros per self-employed person. Purchase power increase for the affiliated self-employed! But because even this government thought this was too ridiculously low, it has been decided to limit this to just the starting self-employed. These starters get a one-time discount of 100 euros. When I questioned the Minister in committee a few weeks ago, he himself admitted that it was actually a very symbolic measure. Good for a few seconds in the TV news or a newspaper article with a photo, but we really don't help anyone with this. This kind of drink notes is indicative of the policy you are pursuing towards the self-employed. They are an ever-growing group and their contribution to the economy and employment cannot be underestimated. You were able to determine for yourself what financial disaster it was when the government forbade them from working through the lockdown. As part of the employment deal, we have been waiting for two years for an integrated policy in which the self-employed could provide added value to boost the employment rate. However, you refuse to participate in any scenario that could contribute to the activation of so many unemployed or inactive people. If you get just EUR 6.8 million out of 300 million for the self-employed, that is no more or less than a front for those self-employed who you should represent as a minister in the government. We regret that. You leave a chance to make a real contribution to increasing the employment rate to 80%.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us be a little positive in this Parliament; once it is not customary! After what was called the mini-tax shift aimed at increasing the purchasing power of wage-earners (mainly the low and middle income), we had to act for the self-employed and the choice was made for the first self-employed, those who made the choice to start as self-employed, to take risks and that despite a difficult economic context, we cannot be more uncertain. It was therefore decided to grant them a single reduction of EUR 100 on their social contributions. This still represents a budget of €6.8 million. Some shout at the scandal, that it's not enough, that it's peanuts. This was repeated today in plenary. So let's be on the right side. No! It's not a heavenly manna. But in the economic context we know, any help is welcome. This is an additional small step that affects no less than 65,000 independents. No, it's not annoyance when you start an activity. For my group, this is an encouraging signal for the self-employed who dare to embark on the adventure, most of whom are women entrepreneurs, who we are committed to supporting. I hope that my colleagues who abstained in committee will understand that we must not turn our backs on any support, especially since all the technical corrections have been made to the draft, in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u136	Madam President, here we have a bill that grants a reduction in social contributions of 100 euros for the self-employed who start their business. It is important to say this: they are not all self-employed. We are going to support the project, but I must admit that it is without great enthusiasm. Not because we do not want to grant support: we are very aware of the financial investment required to start an activity. I am thinking of the purchase of equipment, the guarantees for rents, the various insurance premiums and the various taxes to be paid. We will do so without enthusiasm because it is a one shot, and 100 euros. In our view, if - and I insist on - the will is really - and I insist on the real will - to support the self-employed who start their activity, then this measure is clearly insufficient for us. It is also ineffective and, above all, it does not take into account the concrete reality. I will give two examples. I'm thinking of Serge, who was all excited, and who started a park and garden activity. He was unemployed with an accounting degree. To find out if an activity works, you have to wait at least two years, he told me. What's going on? After a year and a half, unfortunately, his activity is not viable. Serge's problems begin because he's lost his rights. He finds himself without income and the problems continue. It's the fall. Second example. Jamila opened a snack. She said to me: "With increases in energy and food prices, I cannot afford to recover this increase by raising the prices of my sandwiches". The question to be put on the table is this: will we finally dare to talk about a price freeze to deal with these realities? We also have another criticism. We are not against support even if it is minimal. But we do not share the method of this support. Of course, we are not surprised by this method, when we know that it comes from the Liberals. What method is it? The one which comes mainly from the MR, which is supported by Vivaldi and which consists of reducing social contributions. In this case, it is "small" amounts. But this method actually reduces the financing of our social security in a structural way, and behind that, it is the full reliability of our social protection system that is at risk. We believe that if we are to continue to reduce certain social contributions for the small self-employed who are starting up or are already in place, we must seriously consider doing so in parallel with structural financing via the big structures, the big companies and, why not, through a kind of solidarity contribution. There! Otherwise, we are developing bills that please your ears, but not the independents' portfolio.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u137	Madam President, this draft law concerns the implementation of a budget notification of October 2021 on the EUR 300 million tax shift, including the reduction of the special social security contribution. At the moment, start-up self-employed people pay the minimum amount of social contributions, i.e. 774,16 euros per quarter, during the first three years. The present draft grants the starting self-employed at the start of their activities a one-off and final reduction of EUR 100. It has already been indicated that this is a small step, but the measure certainly lowers the threshold for starting an independent activity. The number of people who risk the independent status is also in the elevator. The numbers show that. Every year, we saw an increase in the number of self-employed persons in the main occupation of 1.4 % between 2010 and 2020 and this percentage continues to rise, because between 2019 and 2020 there are already 2.5 % more self-employed persons in the main occupation. The number of self-employed in the secondary sector and the number of self-employed who remain active after retirement are increasing even faster. The figures also show that the number of self-employed women increases faster than the number of male self-employed workers. Our economy and our society benefit from the entrepreneurial spirit of all those men and women. They provide innovation; create work and contribute to growing prosperity, because they want to expand their business with heart and soul and with great commitment and passion for the profession. In addition, the abolition of the correction coefficient and the reform of the right of bridging make this measure by the majority more attractive for self-employed workers. We can therefore approve the draft with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u138	Mr.Minister, of course we will vote in favour of this bill to support the independents, but you will allow me to make a number of comments. First of all, it is neither correct nor respectful to claim that this measure is the equivalent of the mini tax shift for employees. You said it in the press and you repeated it in committee. This mini tax shift applies to about half of the taxpayers, if you take the median wage. Moreover, it is structural. Here, the reduction in contributions of EUR 100 will apply only to about 5% of the self-employed. Besides, it's a one shot measure. The choice of the government was therefore not at all to offer the same support to the self-employed and the employees, whereas the two groups are obviously faced with the same decline in purchasing power, with the same reality in terms of the explosion of prices, particularly energy, but not only. In addition, indexation does not apply to self-employed persons. This choice of government asks us a number of questions, which is the least we can say. You are presenting the bill as a first step, but we consider it to be a very small step. That is true, we can only support this project. We will not oppose it. However, we expect your government to do more for the independents. Beyond the context of the crises that we are experiencing, including the energy crisis, if we want to achieve an employment rate of 80%, it will only be possible to stimulate the economic fabric, create and develop TPEs and SMEs and support the self-employed. The speeches and requests of their representatives have been clear for years, but they have been more pressing in recent months, quite rightly. We need to hear them. You need to hear them. According to Allianz Trade's forecasts, Belgium will end the year in the top 3 of the number of euro area bankruptcies. We are only ahead of Austria and the Netherlands. It is therefore high time to act on maintaining and preserving employment, but also on boosting employment. It also requires more frank support for the self-employed, not just one shot but structural support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u139	Madam President, I have not heard any questions. So I will not answer the questions, but I will make two or three small comments. "Cacahuets", "mistakes", etc., these words had already been heard in committee. I didn't hide that it was a hundred euro boost for the self-employed who are launching. Of course, we only start once because, after that, we hope that the activity is sustainable. It is of course a one shot for all the self-employed who are starting, but it is a measure that is taken in a structural way. Some independents are starting this year. Others will launch next year. The effort is therefore made structurally. We did not target all the self-employed because, as you know very well, if we had, they would have had a contribution reduction of four euros. Rather than being ridiculous with a measure, we preferred to target an independent segment that is the one that needs it most. When you start your business, you don't necessarily have the money to pay your dues. It was therefore more sensible, I believe, to target the effort of the independent mini tax shift. It's the independent mini tax shift, Mrs. Fonck. The volume of aid is proportional to that granted to employees. The amount is certainly lower as there are fewer self-employed than employees. But in proportion, the volume is the same. The philosophy is indeed different: rather than giving four euros to all, we preferred to target. It seems smarter - forgive me for using this qualifier. That is the government's choice, and I welcome it. Mrs Moscufo, if Serge starts an unprofitable activity, it is obvious that it is better to stop it. This is the question that all the independents ask themselves when they launch themselves. There are plans to help them when they start, because you're right to say that that's when we're the most fragile. Hence the importance of having a well-built financial plan with, among other things, well-equipped economic partners to help them. Indeed, you are right, when an independent breaks his face, he is not entitled to unemployment and it is all the more important to be well prepared when he starts his activity. Serge will have to wait a while to recover his unemployment rights, you're right. But it can be helped to launch an activity so that it is profitable. As for Djamila, which sees its production costs increase, it is clear that today, all the independents and certainly those who are concerned with raw materials - the agri-food sector, the chemicals sector, the metal sector, the furniture sector, etc. - their production costs increase and must ensure that price increases are reflected in their selling prices, otherwise they will have a margin problem that could jeopardize the activity itself. In this regard, the Government has taken note of the experts' note and is in the process of preparing, inter alia, support measures to meet the cost of energy to citizens as well as to independents. We will have more details in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u140	I guess it's gonna get some reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u141	Thank you, Minister, for your intervention, because you have highlighted the problem once again. What's it about? You have been able to get EUR 6.8 million out of the fire for the self-employed, while the socialists have walked out almost a thousand times, mainly to stimulate inactivity. You came out with EUR 6.8 million by a decision of a government in which there is actually no agreement on any fundamental challenge and how to tackle it in a structural manner. That government is therefore becoming a carpet market, where you are bringing in 6.8 million euros. You came out with your 6.8 million euros and thought for a moment about what you would do about it. I would ask myself the same question. If you gave all the self-employed something, it would be 4 euros, but that is of course a bit silly. However, if you gave something to all starting self-employed people, it would be 100 euros. So you were out, it was going to be 100 euros. That is the De Croo government's policy on entrepreneurship in this country. This is the cart for the horse, after you took a lousy 6.8 million euros in the carpet market. Well, we are not going along with that. We would very much like you to work at last on structural solutions to the structural challenges facing entrepreneurs and self-employed people in this country today. I think they are well known, I will not list them again. In all these structural yards, this government is literally doing nothing. That's nothing less than reprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u142	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u143	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2700/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2700/4) The bill has 8 articles. The draft law contains 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u144	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u145	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteurs are Mr Jef Van den Bergh and Mrs Laurence Zanchetta. They refer to their written report. They're thanked for that. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u146	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2546/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2546/7) The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill on the implementation of the HNS 2010 Convention". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law on the implementation of the HNS Convention 2010'. The bill has 37 articles. The draft law has 37 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u147	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The reporters are Marianne Verhaert and Laurence Zanchetta. They refer to their written report. We thank them for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u149	Shipping is one of the cornerstones of prosperity in Flanders. Although revisions of the Shipping Code are generally very technical, they are of great importance. As far as the revisions of the Shipping Code are concerned, the government has not so far made a good path. In the middle of last year, we also had a revision of the same code. Minister Van Quickenborne then declared to Parliament that the proposed amendments were widely supported and consulted with the shipping sector. But that didn't work out. The changes were only consulted with the shipping industry and the other sub-sectors of the maritime world received no input. Logically, therefore, the amendment of the law came up with a lot of opposition after the adoption in committee. As a result, the government had to reverse its own legislative amendment in the context of the budget debate in autumn 2021. On the subject of a more recent legislative amendment of the Shipping Code to review the implementation of the HNS Convention, Bill 2564, the previous item on the agenda, we heard the Minister at first reading explain that the draft was widely consulted with the sector during the discussion in committee. It was a déjà vu, because it turned out to be wrong again. The final draft law was only delivered to the actors in the sector after the first reading in the committee. Several organisations involved, which are involved in the law, had not seen the final design before. The proverb says that a donkey does not hit the same stone twice, but Minister Van Quickenborne does. In the last draft law, this method has only been made clear by our group's request for second reading and by a legal technical note from the chamber services, for which I would like to thank the services. The note showed that there were several inaccuracies in the draft law, which were corrected in more than ten amendments by the majority. There has undoubtedly been thorough and correct work. It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that Parliament is rather cautious in dealing with revisions of the Shipping Code by Minister Van Quickenborne's cabinet. There have been incorrect statements for Parliament up to two times. Up to two times, articles of law were submitted, which had to be revised or corrected. For the present draft law, again to revise the Shipping Code, there is a more than valid reason to believe that technical and substantive corrections were still included in the text. The N-VA therefore logically asked in committee to have another analysis carried out by the legislative secretariat. It has pleased the majority to reject that question for a reason which has not been explained to date. No fraction of the majority has explained this. Until today, we do not know why a technical note has been refused. A colleague of Open Vld has entered the list of speakers, perhaps we will soon hear it. I'm very curious about that. In any case, they have opted not to receive a note. The majority deliberately chooses not to be informed about the law that we are about to adopt. People don't want to know where the possible mistakes are. It also refuses to recognise possible improvements, not only the possible improvements made by the opposition, but also improvements made by the neutral services of the Chamber. The majority will vote blind this evening, and they will vote uninformed. That is the way in which laws come into being in this country in 2022. I don't think that's a professional way of working. Colleagues of the majority, I predict that within a few months you will have to correct wrong legislation again, namely the legislation that you will shortly adopt in your obedience to the government shoulder down. In any case, the N-VA Group will not be involved, we will abstain on principle because of this way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u150	Madam President, it is the same debate as in committee. I said that we did indeed consult with the sector in connection with the previous vote of the Shipping Code. You asked me to give you the reports and the opinions, which I did. You will see that in those opinions we are even congratulated on the way in which we operate. Consultations were also held with the Redderscentrale (Rederscentrale) for fisheries. Mr Roggeman, we are more than ever consulting with the actors involved, and the reports and opinions are evidence of this. With regard to the working methods of the committee and whether or not a note is requested, that has nothing to do with the Minister. That's a decision of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u151	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, your last remark is justified. It was therefore not a reproach to you, but to the attention of colleagues from the majority groups, who are opting tonight to adopt legislation completely blind, uninformed. I think it is a very strange way of working that a Member of Parliament refuses to be informed. It's really weird, but we're watching it happen here tonight. Mr Minister, I have one simple question for you: you say that you have consulted, but you have a rather bad track record when it comes to your previous revisions of the Shipping Code. Can you assure me that further in this legislative period, later this year or perhaps next year, there will be no re-correction of the legislation that you are presenting today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u152	Mr Roggeman, I can tell you that we are in constant consultation, but I cannot guarantee that there will never be a legislative amendment again. That guarantee would be very unwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u153	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u154	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2566/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2566/3) The bill has 23 articles. The draft law has 23 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u155	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u156	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u157	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u158	Mrs Gijbels, you have the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u159	Madam President, is the Minister on his way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u160	We need to call and wait for an answer. Normally he's coming. Mrs. Gijbels, is his presence important to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u161	Madam President, it is interesting that, when I ask questions, the Minister also hears them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip186x.u162	We resume as soon as the minister is here. Thank you for your patience. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 16 at 7.10 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 16 June at 7.10 p.m.
