ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u1	Unia's position on the burkini causes a stir. Unia encourages municipalities to promote the use of the burkini during swimming lessons in municipal schools. Unia is clearly taking a militant position here. Unia has become an activist organisation, which clearly demonstrates its support for certain dogmatic ideas with discriminatory characteristics for women. As a result, Unia not only encourages the repression and discrimination of women, but also segregation and Communityism, all under the guise of the protection of minorities. As far as equality and emancipation are concerned, Unia thus abandons women and young girls. This is contrary to the role and function of the organisation, namely to guarantee the equality and equal opportunities of each person, regardless of gender. In this way, Unia becomes an unnecessary and even harmful institution. Do you share Unia's point of view regarding wearing a burkini during swimming lessons? Unia must be an independent institution that fights discrimination, promotes equality and protects human rights. What concrete measures will you take to point out to the runners of Unia the core tasks of their institution? What is your position on equality and equal opportunities between girls and boys, when girls have to cover themselves like this during swimming lessons? Of course, a burkini is not a normal garment, but one that hides a discriminatory philosophy for girls and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u2	Mrs Safai, you believe that Unia's opinion on wearing bathing suits illustrates that Unia has become an activist organisation with dogmatic ideas that discriminate against women. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Unia's advice is now five years old. It was published in 2017 and was developed in collaboration with various bodies. The Flemish Gender Chamber and the Health and Health Agency contributed to the development of the advice. The Flemish Institute for Sport Management and Recreation Policy also committed itself to supporting and indicating the advice in practice. In this respect, the opinion is a good example of cooperation between the different competent authorities with a view to balancing interests. In the meantime, Unia's advice and the advice of the Health and Health Agency were also followed in the case law. In June 2021, the Court of Appeal in Ghent ruled that wearing body-encompassing swimwear is safe and hygienic. The Court referred to the opinions of Unia and the Health and Health Agency. In Unia's opinion, a serious balance is made between the different interests at stake. Particular attention shall be paid to equality between women and men. Unia relied on the advice of the Flemish Gender Chamber, which reads as follows: "Equality between men and women cannot be used to combat such a garment. The fact that the garment is perceived by some as too classic, too prude or even strange is not sufficient to justify a ban." I also believe that there are no reasons to accept your proposal and call upon Unia. May I also remind you that Unia is an independent equality body, which is only accountable to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State. You can list the various organisations that participated in the opinion, but that does not make the opinion correct. You refer to the opinion that the fact that a garment is prude or strange is not a reason to prohibit it. However, that is not why the peasant kini should be banned for young girls. The young girls need you to defend their rights and equality. However, you abandon them by reminding them that the opinion was adopted by all kinds of bodies and refers to the hygienic basis. I don't need to explain to you why women have to cover their bodies. Women are free to wear what they want, but the burkini is not a symbol of equality between men and women. You can't tell me that. It is your job to ensure equality, including that of young girls and boys. That is why I am addressing you, but you are not going to do so. That is a pity, and I can only regret it. I can talk here for hours about the meaning of a burkini for a woman and about the social pressure for girls to wear the burkini so they can go swimming in the pool with their classmates. I do not seem to be able to convince you that the burkini is a discriminatory garment, whereas it is your job to guarantee equivalence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u4	Mr President, I have no doubt that the answers of the Secretary of State will allow us to bounce back on this subject and, therefore, will allow Mr. From Caluwe to ask his questions at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u5	Technically, his question becomes moot. Of course, he can reintroduce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, together with Minister Van Quickenborne, we are working to ban conversion therapies. Although Belgium does not yet have specific legislation, certain acts already constitute criminal offences, such as fraud, abuse of vulnerability, inhuman and degrading treatment or intentional assault. To develop this prohibition, I will rely on the bills that are now being tabled in Parliament. My services have already summarized these texts. I also work closely with the associations and individuals concerned. My ambition is to propose as comprehensive a bill as possible that will apply to those affected by this type of practice because of their sexual orientation and gender identity. Unia presented me with a full opinion on the basis of the current proposals. Drafting of the text is under way. The introduction of a real housing policy for young LGBTQI+ victims concerns federated entities. As far as I am concerned, it is my responsibility to legislate as quickly as possible on conversion therapies, as the European resolution suggests. Secondly, I agree with you on the need to stimulate research in order to better measure the phenomenon of conversion therapies in order to combat it even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that these conversion therapies may be the subject of infringements by means of offences other than those formulated as such by conversion therapies. A person may be prosecuted for acts of harassment, torture, sequestration, fraud or the illegal exercise of medicine, but it must be noted that this remains insufficient for the victims and, therefore, their burden of proof is much more difficult than with a specific crime of conversion therapy. This is really the whole issue, especially since with a specific crime one could also have statistics and which says statistics necessarily says more targeted measures and, consequently, more effective measures against these conversion therapies. Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for your answer because, where your general policy paper placed more emphasis on the need to evaluate this conversion therapy, today you tell us, no, there is a text on the table to formally prohibit them. We're finally in a later stage. Indeed, since the United Nations describes these therapies as acts of torture, this must be reflected in our legislative arsenal. It is very important that children and adolescents can be informed so that they can live their sexuality freely, serenely and responsibly. It is certainly not necessary, as is the case with some today, for them to be indoctrinated and even less forced, especially when we know the terrible consequences of these conversion therapies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, on our agenda now are the joint questions No 55025015C by Mr Robby De Caluwé and No 55026662C by Mr Hervé Rigot, who are currently in another committee. They asked me to ask their questions later in the afternoon. The same applies to Mr Robby De Caluwé's question No 55025042C. I would like to point out here that when I am warned of a delay, I can be flexible. Otherwise, I declare the question to be moot, as is the case with the next question, namely question No 55025208C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u9	As Mr. Boukili is ill, his question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u10	Dear colleague, I have indeed become aware of the situation you are referring to. It's very challenging. I personally support better protection for whistleblowers who denounce discrimination. I am working to improve protection against reprisals against people who report discrimination in their workplace, or who support victims of discrimination. On the issue of the independence of ODA, the Secretary of State for the Protection of Privacy can best answer your questions. One of the persons mentioned in the article is subject to a procedure for the revocation of his mandate. This procedure depends, according to article 45 of the Organic Law, on the jurisdiction of the Chamber. More specifically, the working environment, whether at the Data Protection Authority or in other places where women have denounced the sexism they experience on a daily basis, is not conducive to the development of women's careers. If Mrs Dereppe and Mrs Jaspar consider that they are victims of discrimination, I can only encourage them to contact the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which is competent to receive such reports. I would like to recall that sexist hate speech often aims to silence women exposed in the media and exclude them from the public debate. Unfortunately, such practices generally achieve their objectives. A study by Amnesty International entitled Toxic Twitter shows that women, activists and journalists adapt their behaviour on Twitter as a result of hate speech and even withdraw from social networks. This prevents women from organizing, participating in online social activities or using their right to freedom of expression. I am currently working on an action plan against online sexual violence, in order to make digital space safer for all. Discussions have already begun with social media platforms. My goal is that, in the virtual world as well as in the real world, there is no room for sexism, intimidation or discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. There were indeed two parts to my question. As far as the specific situation in ODA is concerned, you refer me to Secretary of State Michel. But I'm still on my hunger. Indeed, from the moment you commit yourself to fighting harassment and sexism, especially in the workplace, it goes without saying that even when we talk about ODA, even when we talk about federal administrations, this commitment must be visible. I think it would have been interesting for you, and especially for them, to talk with them, to look at the substance of the problem. Of course, they have the opportunity to complain to the Institute. And we thank this institute for the work it provides every day. But I think that there is a structural problem that deserves to be discussed directly with them. For the rest, I will refer to the Secretary of State, Mr Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u12	Mrs Merckx is indisposed. Her question No. 55025417C becomes without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, the Netherlands recently decided to abolish the period of reflection on abortion. Since 1984 there has been a five-day reflection period. After 38 years, the legislation in this area was relaxed after a concession from the Christian Democrats. Moreover, the deadline for abortion in the Netherlands is 24 weeks, which is also a big difference from our arrangement. Belgian legislation on abortion imposes a six-day reflection period. As early as 2019, my party put in its bill No. 458 to be deleted for the period of reflection. It also put forward other proposals, for example to increase the time limits within which abortion is allowed. There is a need for a relaxation of abortion legislation in Belgium, but the government has put that ambition in the fridge. You stopped talking about the subject. In the coalition agreement, it was still cautious that the pending legislative proposals would be evaluated and that the coalition partners in the government would work constructively on a consensus on this issue. However, in the 2022 policy paper, you did not at any time refer to the right to abortion in our country. Madam Secretary of State, will you follow the example of the Netherlands and delete the reflection period? If not, why not? Will you raise the time limit within which an abortion can be carried out to 20 weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u14	Dear colleagues, my position on this issue has always been clear and you know it. I am in favour of removing all obstacles aimed at limiting the human rights of women and, in this case, at fully disposing of their bodies. I stand on the side of the countries that offer the most rights to women. I am also on the side of women living in countries that have diminished their rights, as is the case in Poland. This led me to take the initiative to fund Abortion without borders, which I have already had the opportunity to share with you. I address the issue of women's right to dispose of their bodies on every occasion given to me both nationally and internationally. In Belgium, the issue is on Parliament's table, in accordance with the government agreement, and I strongly encourage you to do constructive work to advance the rights of all women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, you are therefore calling on the government to continue this work. Of course, you're part of that, too. I hope that the Members of the government who are present here will put this on the agenda again. We think it's an important file. As for the fact that women have to wait so long, I do not think we need paternalism. The women decide for themselves. It's hard enough as it is. I would like to call on the government parties to make progress on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u16	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your brief but clear answer. I know your point of view on this matter, and that is your personal opinion. It must be noted that your government's view is quite different, namely that we will assess the state of the legislation and then reach a consensus within the seven parties of Vivaldi. Today you encourage your majority partners to work constructively. I wonder how we can work constructively with a party, the CD&V, that does not want any progress on this issue. How can you hope to reach an acceptable consensus with the CD&V, which is historically opposed to any progress, any relaxation of the legislation on voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG)? Your answer reflects that what is stated in the government agreement is powder in the eye. You did support Polish women in their access to abortion, and I greeted you for that. However, support must also be given to Belgian women and, here, there is a big problem, especially since the removal of the time limit for reflection in the Netherlands will lead to an even greater number of women having abortions in this country where, unlike ours, they are not infantilized. They are not told to wait six days because, when they ask for abortion, they don't really know what they want and still have to think. In the Netherlands, women are seen as responsible beings who know what is good for them. I ask you to respond urgently to these women who have the misfortune of having to abort out of time, after twelve weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, we also had a debate in committee last time following reports in the press on sexual cross-border behaviour at universities. Meanwhile, in Pano, we were again able to see testimonies from mainly PhD students who complained about cross-border behaviour and years of abuse of power by professors at KU Leuven and Ghent University. They were testimonies about swearing out, threats, sexism, sexist remarks and humiliations in the workplace. A witness stated that he was afraid to see the person in question even in the corridors or to see his name appear in the mailbox. That's emotionally extremely exhausting. Some witnesses, due to the toxic and sexist work culture, have ended their academic career prematurely. What is even more problematic is that the behaviour of these professors was apparently well known at the universities. In several cases, reports had been received. About a certain UGent professional from the report, there had been more than 15 reports since 2010. Despite all these reports, this man had been promoted to a professor. So it seems as if there is a culture in the universities where these powerful professors are held over a hand. The victims have been given little protection. We can see that more and more students and university staff are exposing this problem. I have a number of questions for you, since you are competent for equal opportunities. Have you been in contact with the Belgian rectors? Did you discuss this with them? What procedures do you think should be in place at universities to deal with cross-border behaviour? As Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, are you in favour of an independent reporting point for cross-border behaviour? Of course, you are not competent for labour welfare legislation, but what is your view as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities on what needs to be done to make our universities a safer place to guarantee equal opportunities for students and employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u18	Mrs. Van Hoof apologized. As a result, her question becomes without object, just like Mrs Bury's.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to combat gender-based and sexual violence, I coordinate two tools: the deployment of centres for the care of victims of sexual violence and the national action plan to combat gender-based violence. To continue, I organised a meeting with all the rectors of the Belgian universities on Friday 4 March. The intention was to talk to each other and discuss the pilot project ZSG. In addition, it was also intended to share good practices from which to learn, and to identify barriers to cross-border behaviour, both in government and in academic institutions. I also reminded the rectors of the IGVM's assignment and expertise. Based on its experience, the Institute is well placed to discuss with the various actors what measures should be introduced or strengthened in the fight against cross-border behaviour and sexual violence. This meeting focused on the lines of action at the federal level. We discussed the importance of clarifying procedures and different legislation and of strengthening the preventive framework. The aim is also to improve the training of the actors responsible for prevention, the collection of complaints and the change in business culture. Anonymity, however, encounters legal problems. Before this meeting, I was in contact with Minister Glatigny. The report and an information letter will be sent to the relevant ministers of the Länder. As a result of this meeting and within the framework of my expertise, we have identified several avenues for action. First, the Institute could work on an arc of decisions that would clarify the procedures according to the will of the victim, the role of the alleged offender and the legislation concerned. Secondly, we agreed that it would be useful to organise a consultation meeting which would bring together local actors in connection with the SCVS and the "genre" contact points of the universities and higher schools concerned. Finally, I was able to expose the pilot project "CPVS Campus". The goal is to identify referrals from outside universities, who are experts in sexual violence, who could conduct information sessions on SACH and other services available. Similarly, they could meet with all the actors in the places of celebration in a student setting to make them know the SCVs. My objective is to make them discover as many as possible, as has been requested several times in committee, so that victims of sexual assault can find their way directly and be helped as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. The last time you talked about it here in committee was after the student uprising on the Flemish side of the country. Of course, we knew that it was exactly the same on the francophone side and it took a few days for new testimonies to come out. Although we are working on gender-based violence issues every day of our mandate, we are still surprised to see how systematic such violence is and how no one is safe. Madam Secretary of State, thank you for recalling the various things you have already put in place. It seems to me that there are two main elements to our political response. The first is to make the academic authorities understand that they are co-responsible. You put all your energy into it and you're going to have to keep doing it. One realizes, in the way people react to the movement, that they are somewhat rejecting their responsibilities. No! Structurally, the academic community and its leaders are co-responsible for the violence taking place on their campuses. The second element is to encourage women who are victims of violence to file complaints. You're multiplying the places where you can find help. They must be better known and women who no longer believe in them must be encouraged to go and file a complaint. This work, you must continue to do it hand in hand with the institutions. We must continue the work envisaged in your National Plan, that is to say, to ensure that those who are in the collimator are truly prosecuted for the acts committed and facing justice as they deserve. Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your efforts and I invite you to continue because we are far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, my reply is in line with that of colleague de Laveleye. It is clear that society no longer tolerates such behaviour. You support us in that view as Secretary of State. I am very grateful that you want to support this social trend from the point of view of policy. I am also grateful for all the initiatives you take in this area in your national action plan against gender-based violence, and all the other initiatives you have taken. I would also like to thank you for your discussions with the Belgian rectors. It is true what my colleague says, it is primarily the universities that have to assume their responsibilities. The existing welfare law must be applied. We must effectively ensure that the victims make a complaint. This often happens, but often these complaints are not taken seriously and are not followed up sufficiently. I believe that we should use the turnaround and strengthen the standards in the organizational cultures. I also believe that the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men can certainly play a role in this as policy advisor, in order to indicate how we can strive for equal opportunities in universities, and wider also in other sectors of industry in society. Thank you. Good luck with everything you do in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u22	I have no news from Mr Loones, so his question No. 55025477C becomes without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u23	To date, there are no official Belgian figures on sexual or gender violence related to dating applications such as Grindr or Tinder. There is, however, enough evidence that users of dating apps, as well as users of gay dating apps, are far too often victims of sexual or gender-based violence, with dramas like those that have taken place in our country in recent months. According to the UK National Crime Agency, between 2012 and 2016, 523 dating-related crimes were committed across England and Wales, 63 of which were rapes. Some 85 per cent of the victims were women. I am determined to tackle sexual violence online, in line with my commitment in the National Action Plan to Combat Gender-Based Violence. A federal action plan to combat online violence is being prepared, which will include measures to prevent, raise awareness, protect and improve prosecutions. At the same time, actions are already under way. Discussions have already begun with social media platforms. In addition, the Institute cooperates with the police services to improve the reception and support of victims of sexual violence online. With regard specifically to harassment on dating sites, it will be necessary to identify which projects developed in other countries can be applied in Belgium. You can count on me to make Belgium a pioneer in the fight against sexual violence online. Thank you for your question, which puts this new subject on Parliament's table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is a pity that there are no precise figures for Belgium on this subject, but enough evidence shows that violence is continuing in the digital space. Thank you for reminding you of the existing actions. I count on you and the government to take the necessary action. The press relays dramas very regularly, allowing us to realize that these young people are harassed, abused through these networks, and that this can lead to drama. It is our duty and duty to tackle the root of evil and eradicate all violence, especially on networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, it's an important matter and I'm going to take the time to explain it. When I submitted my question in February 2022, the number of feminicides stood at six. Meanwhile, at the end of March, that number has already risen to ten. In 2021, the number of feminicides was 22. Those are hallucinating numbers. That is why I would like to go into this further. At the end of 2021, you published your national action plan against gender-based violence. In that you had three specific key measures on the feminicides. Under number 7, you said you'd think about the definition of feminicide. Under number 24, you stated that you would study the possibility of setting up a mechanism for the analysis of gender-based murders. Under number 127, you reported that you would seek advice on including feminicide in the penal code. We find this rather non-binding, it is not enough about an action plan. Further in the explanatory statement, you said that you are in favour of an official registration of the number of feminicides. What is the state of play of the thinking exercises, the studies of the possibilities and the consultation, as announced under the aid measures 7, 24 and 127 I have just mentioned? As far as the Go for Equality note is concerned, how much money will be made available for this measure? When can we expect the official registration of the feminicides? Where will the official registration of the feminicides be to consult?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u26	I share your concern about the impressive number of feminicides in three months. I have indeed committed myself, both alone and in cooperation with other colleagues, to the measures you have mentioned. I read in your question that you do not find these formulations in the plan very engaging. I won't teach you how politics works! Implementation and ambition in the implementation of a policy is the determination of the people who will implement it. I can assure you of my determination. As regards the mechanism for the analysis of feminicide cases, the study was entrusted to the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology. It will be available in September 2022. The total cost of the study is EUR 56 000. After that study, a second phase of research could follow, but we are waiting for the results of the first phase. As far as the seventh measure is concerned, contacts are in the process of establishing a legal framework that will enable us to register feminicides officially. As regards measure 127, the Minister of Justice had requested the opinion of experts within the area of criminal law on whether or not to include feminicide in the Criminal Code. The opinion does not call for inclusion in the Criminal Code, but calls for other interesting legal avenues. I also think it is crucial that women's organisations should also be consulted on this issue. That is why I asked the Minister of Justice to seek their advice. On the basis of these different opinions, the issue will then be discussed within the government. Mrs Rohonyi, like you, I am convinced that the anti-approximation alarm is an essential tool to combat femicides. Several studies have already shown that murder between partners or ex-partners can be the end point of a period of intense harassment. I also insisted that the needs and rights of victims be placed at the heart of the intervention. If the victim decides not to take the alarm, he or she must have other instruments to guarantee his or her safety, such as the mechanism of the re-visit. As regards the deployment of the alarm, it was agreed from the outset with the Ministers of Justice and the Interior that the new procedure would first be tested in West Flanders and Eastern Flanders. The evaluation of this phase will then develop a legal framework for the deployment of the tool across the country. Finally, I would like to stress that the fight against femicide cannot be limited to the three measures I have just mentioned; it is a collective responsibility of all ministers, who have committed themselves to implementing the provisions of the plan that depend on their responsibilities. It is essential to recall that this is a collective effort at all levels, which will help us to combat this scourge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u27	Thank you for your answer. We do want it not only to be a plan of intent, but also to be an action plan. Don't tell me we live in a complicated country. I don't think that's an excuse. The problem is too serious. The figures suggest that a faster approach is needed and that more resources are needed. And there is often the problem: there has to be enough budget to make that right. For example, the budgets are only in order for less than 5% of the measures. The funds for 20% of the measures are in a note that no one can see. The plan contains measures that will require a great deal of resources, but you say that there is no need for additional money. For other measures, according to the plan, the budgets would be fine, but in the budget table we can read in black and white that savings are being made. We have often intervened on this but it remains a problem. Together with the DéFI Group, we are the only party to raise this issue, when it is such an important problem. The increase in feminicide rates is huge, so I wonder why the government parties are not more concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the substantiated answers, but I would like to come back to some points. You tell us that the opinion of the experts in criminal law sought resulted in the fact that the inclusion of femicide in the Criminal Code would not be accepted, but that other interesting legal avenues would be on the table. I wish I knew which one. From the moment that other opinions of feminist organizations have been sought, what is the margin of manoeuvre given to them if the experts in criminal law do not want this criminalization of femicide? Could the views of these feminist organizations weigh the balance in the other direction? You tell us that you, like me, are convinced of the positive effect of harassment alarms and that it is logical that you have decided to extend this device. That's positive. However, this expansion is initially taking place in eastern and western Flanders. As a result, women in other provinces will have to wait until 2023 to benefit. In doing so, we will observe unequal treatment for more than a year among women depending on the province in which they live. Why, from the moment you are convinced of the effectiveness of this mechanism, do not develop this legal framework today? What are the conditions necessary to have this housing? The Minister of Justice explained to us that it was limited to the victims of very violent harassment of a former companion, but that in the long run it could be extended to other situations. In any case, the life of the person must be in danger. Who will attest to this danger? On what basis? Will a complaint be accepted, supported, for example, by testimony from the neighbourhood? Will that be enough? Finally, you say that the person who would not use or be entitled to this alarm would still have this re-visit device. If this is a good mechanism, I would like to point out that it applies only to victims who have already filed a complaint. However, there are all these victims who have not yet taken the step to file a complaint. It must be noted that there is a lack of mechanisms for their attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u29	Mr President, Secretary of State, International Women's Day, on 8 March, is always a day when many women come into the streets to fight injustice, exploitation, oppression and violence. I found it very encouraging that a lot of people have come out on the street. It was also the first time in history that both trade unions have called for actions and strikes to be organised in companies. That is a very good thing. The activists call for attention to be given to an effective policy against gender-based violence. In addition, the activists focused on socio-economic inequality and the importance of financial dependence. We note that this government is taking very little action against this socio-economic inequality. Thirdly, the organisations are calling for stronger public services. I myself have attended the actions of the employees in the service cheque companies on several occasions. They've been fighting for better wages for over a year. Their wages are very low. 98% of employees in the service cheque companies are women. We do not understand why they do not listen to their demand for a better wage. Have you had a discussion with the collective of 8 March, with the trade unions and other civil society organisations? When will we get an insight into the budgets that, according to the Go for Equality note, will be distributed about the measures in the NAP Gender-related Violence? Will you respond to the demands of civil society not to stop at the 10 health centres? You will argue for a better wage, as the service cheque companies demand, of at least 14 euros. That's a question from the unions. Do you support the position of the Common Trade Union Front on the wage freeze law? There is a citizens' initiative for this. As part of the International Women's Day on 8 March, the trade union also campaigned on the minimum pensions of EUR 1,500 net. Why can't the government discuss collective reduction of working hours instead of closing the employment deal? That too is a question from women's organisations. According to your policy paper, you will work towards a better balance between work and private life. The work deal is totally against that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u30	Mr President, I am not going to refer to my written question, if only to answer what I have just heard in the reply to the previous question. Madam Secretary of State, I have submitted a question to you during the week of International Women's Rights Day. This is a moment of great mobilization, both in Brussels and in other important and less important cities in terms of population in our country. Every year, it is a question of taking stock, on March 8, of the issues that affect women disproportionately. These include violence, the right to dispose of one's body, precariousness and inequality in the face of employment, etc. It is true that in Belgium, unfortunately, in 2022, all these themes are still important. To date, there are already ten femicides in our country. By the time I introduced the question, we were seven. I would like to reply to Mrs Vindevoghel. Even the parties of the majority are concerned about femicides. But we do not ask a specific question every time a woman is murdered by her spouse or former spouse. We know, however, that you are working there, Madam Secretary of State, and that we must continue to put all our forces in this fight. Sexism remains a reality. This is discussed several times in previous questions. All the movements "balance your bar", "balance your folklore", etc. are very intense at the moment and I hope that we are at a key point. Wage inequality has just been recalled and remains significant in Belgium. Precarity and poverty are particularly strong for women and specifically for single mothers. Madam Secretary of State, my question is more specific. During this important week, you have met several social movements linked to the various struggles for equality between women and men. What kind of breath did it give you in terms of priorities? What are the key issues in terms of equality? March 8 should be every day. You work there every day, but this may be the time to say again how you have worked with social movements on these priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, 8 March is an important date in the struggle for women's rights, even though this fight must be waged 365 days a year. You know that in my way of working, I associate women's associations working on equality in our society with everyday life. On 8 March, I specifically decided to highlight the issue of economic violence against women, particularly with regard to maintenance payments that are too often unpaid or poorly paid. Indeed, women's associations such as the Frauenliga, the League of Families or the Co.Fa.Mon Single Parent Family Collective, which I met on 8 March, still explained to me that if maintenance is not the cause of the violence, it can be a factor in reactivation of past violence and fears of further action. This is why it is important to improve the functioning of the Maintenance Claims Service (SECAL) and to work to minimize the interaction between ex-partners on the payment of maintenance payments. The National Plan of Action to Combat Gender Violence addresses the issue of economic violence for the first time. This is important in terms of understanding the continuum of violence. Madame de Laveleye, the day of March 8 – the two weeks around this date too – was particularly rich in activities and conferences on women's rights. On 4 March, I met with the rectors of Belgian universities about gender-based and sexual violence on campuses. On 8 March, I not only inaugurated the new Centre for Sexual Violence Care (CPVS) in Roeselare, but I was also in support and listening to the various events that were taking place in Liège. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's also important to be able to listen on that day rather than to occupy the media space myself. In mid-March, I had the chance to represent Belgium at the 66th session of the Commission on the Status of Women in New York, which allowed me to relay the voice of the associations and be in contact with them. In particular, I had the chance to meet a series of eco-feminists from Latin America, who relayed concerns about the security of human rights defenders in relation to environmental protection. I also co-organized a side event with Minister Khattabi on gender and climate issues. As far as means are concerned, we know that will alone is not enough to put in place ambitious policies. I have received more than €5 million for the Institute for Gender Equality, half of which is for the implementation of the National Action Plan. For the first time, this plan has a specific budget. The federal government has chosen to invest €2.5 million per year in the implementation of the plan. With regard to matters, all ministers committed themselves to making visible their own budget devoted to combating gender violence. So it comes in addition not to mention the federated entities. As far as I am concerned, I can already tell you that at least EUR 500 000 of the 2.5 million will be made available to civil society for the creation of a national platform to monitor and evaluate the plan. In addition, a major call for projects was launched a few weeks ago. In addition, three individuals were engaged at the Institute for the Implementation of the Plan. With respect to SPCs, we decided to open ten across the country to allow each victim to have a SPCV up to an hour's drive from home. The next opening is planned in Leuven. The others will follow in 2023. This is my priority right now. On socio-economic issues in particular, I am committed to gender equality in employment. All members of the government must analyse their actions under the prism of their gender impact, in particular for the commitments made in the gendermainstreaming plan. The first half-yearly report of the plan has just been approved by the government. With regard specifically to the measurement of ten hours of work per day, I would like to point out that this is only possible on a voluntary basis. A parent or worker who wishes to do so may request that his or her work be concentrated over four days. In no case may the others be required to organise such work. The inspection services will ensure that this is done. I can only hope that this will eventually open the debate on the collective reduction of working time. Finally, the transposition of the Work-life Balance Directive also offers new prospects. The texts will be tabled in Parliament before the summer. The aim of this directive is to provide opportunities for parents to reconcile work and family life and to motivate fathers to make use of existing leave schemes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, it was interesting to hear statistics and budgets. However, it is not yet clear to me how these budgets for Go for Equality will be distributed. However, I asked that question. I think it is a good thing that we are making progress on alimony. All the additional resources are important to our party, but I do not think that the socio-economic aspect is given enough attention by the government. After all, the wage freeze still exists. The fight of these workers for better wages is, for the time being, unsuccessful. I fear that legislation following the employment deal will not be beneficial for women, but that this will put more pressure on the balance between work and family life. There is still much work to be done and we will continue to support people's struggle to eliminate this inequality, to ensure that there are good public services, to ensure a proper balance between work and family life and that there are sufficient resources to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The work you have done at the United Nations on the issue of women and climate is very interesting. This theme will grow in scope. We will have to tackle this because the crisis of climate change and its adaptation will already affect and affect women in particular. Thank you for being active on this subject. With regard to economic violence, it is interesting to note that you, and above all civil society, are beginning to put this issue more prominently. As such, on 8 March last was very instructive since groups of single mothers in particular, professionalize their advocacy. We will have to live up to the political answers that we will give to their demands. In the opinion committee, under the chairmanship of Mrs Jiroflée, we are working on the issue of single people, specifically single women and single women with children. I hope we can present concrete solutions to the government. As far as maintenance claims are concerned, I invite you to support, as I will, your colleague Minister of Finance in responding, in particular, to the report of the Court of Auditors published in 2009, which contains a large number of recommendations. In my view, he is not given enough attention. I know that you are working on it, but we will also remind your colleague in charge of finance that this is a top priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, we have recently learned through the news that a leader in the chain of shops Action in Limburg shows bullying and racism. For example, resumes of people with headscarfs would be thrown into the garbage can. Like the workers, I am deeply indignant about this. In the Action in Eisden, the workers even laid down the work to charge this injustice. What are you doing to combat racism in the workplace? What else will you do to deal with this? It is still a major problem. The law on labour market practical tests will also be amended. However, we are disappointed to learn that proactive practical tests will still be impossible as this government is holding on to the prior written advice of an employment officer or prosecutor of the King. Have you argued in the government for real proactive practical tests as we believe they should be done? How do you justify this choice of government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u35	The behaviour described in the press by the manager of the Action Shop in Eisden is totally inadmissible if this behaviour was actually stated. I strongly condemn it. I would like to emphasise the powerful gesture of all the shop workers to denounce this unacceptable behaviour. They have my complete solidarity. I would remind you that Unia is at the disposal of all citizens to report cases of discrimination. Reporting this type of behaviour to Unia leads to an appropriate follow-up of the victim in response to the discriminatory acts. Moreover, the vote on the amendment of the Social Criminal Code will take place in plenary this week. This text contains several important improvements. For example, if the text is adopted, social inspectors will soon be able to present a false CV or use a false identity to check whether an employer's behaviour is discriminatory or not. In addition, Unia offers employers the eDiv tool. This instrument supports Belgian companies, companies and public administrations in the development and follow-up of an inclusive diversity policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, I appreciate your support for the workers who have organised solidarity in the field. I was pleased that trade unions on the international day also enter the companies to address the problem. That is a good way of ensuring that there is no racism in the workplace. We believe that there are still obstacles to the proactive practice tests. There should be no conditions to ensure that there is no discrimination. After all, it is still a very big problem for the people in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u37	(...) attention should be paid to all the organisations involved in this process and should take action to combat racism. As I said earlier, there were also many actions by the trade unions and the students. The students are our future. It makes me happy that a lot of students have taken action in the schools. I can see some progress in that. In our country, too, people are confronted with racism on a daily basis. The discrimination on the labour market and on the rental market, as in so many other places, is unbelievable. People with a migration background have a disproportionate amount to do with police violence. In our streets there is still the problem of glorifying colonial leaders. Refugees are also often treated unfairly. We expected that a national action plan against racism would already be there on the 20th anniversary of the Durban Conference. That deadline's been passed by now. I've asked you a few questions about that. Last time, you didn't even give a concrete deadline for this. In the meantime, is there a deadline for the publication of the Action Plan? The students are asking for a hotline for racism in schools to be set up. Do you think that's a good idea? They also advocate serious education on the colonial past of Belgium. What do you think of that? Do you support that question? The students also want racism to be tackled in the police. What will you do to combat ethnic profiling and racist police violence? Will the government invest in more jobs and more public services to ease competition among people? What can we expect in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u38	As I said recently in committee, the process of approval has proved long and difficult in view of the interfederal nature of the national action plan against racism. Civil society is very involved in the development of this plan. The input of organisations working in the field is of the utmost importance to me. Although I also welcome the involvement of the various political actors in implementing an ambitious plan to combat racism, it should be noted that, unfortunately, there is no agreement on a common text at this stage. Moreover, the completion of a national action plan is not solely the responsibility of the federal level. So the time limit for completion is not just up to me. Nevertheless, I will continue to work hard to achieve this plan. Education is a Community competence. As regards the establishment of ethnic profiles and the fight against police violence, I invite you to contact the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Finally, I am aiming for a proactive policy in the fight against racism. On 21 March, for example, I launched a call for projects worth EUR 500 000 to support projects with an impact. Never before has so much money been allocated at federal level to support projects by civil society organisations in the fight against racism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u39	I can see the plan isn't coming. It was planned for a few years ago, but now you still can't give a date. I don't think that's serious. Apparently, the regions are at odds. If I see that action was taken on 21 March by students and trade unionists against discrimination, and if I hear their concerns, then you should encourage them to move forward faster. It's a shame it's all taking so long.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u40	Mrs Vanrobaeys is not present for her question No. 55026330C. Neither does Mrs Jadin in relation to her question No. 55026534C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u41	Mr President, I refer to my written question. In 1975 the United Nations for the first time recognised gender inequality as a universal problem. Almost 50 years later, gender inequality is still a huge challenge. By 2020, the pay gap was still 5.3 percent. 12% of women have missed job opportunities due to pregnancy discrimination. No less than two in five women have ever had to deal with physical sexual violence. Women with non-white skin colour or a migration background are more likely to face discrimination. Under the Gender Mainstreaming Act of 12 January 2007, you have worked on the Federal Plan Gender Mainstreaming. With this, you want to work on gender equality in all federal policy areas. The plan provides for four steps: 1. Analysis of the gender-specific composition of the policy target groups. 2.Identification of the differences between the situation of women and men. 3. To determine whether these differences are problematic in terms of access to livelihoods or the exercise of fundamental rights. 4. Development of policies taking into account the results of the gender analysis carried out and preventing or correcting any inequalities identified The various ministers identified in the plan the policies where they want to integrate the gender dimension as a priority. I have the following questions: In what way will the follow-up of the plan happen? Will there be a monitoring of the steps taken in the different policy areas? Have all the policy areas already completed the analysis of gender differences? If so, is it intended that these analyses can be consulted centrally? How is the Institute for the Equality of Men and Women involved? How can the different policy areas be supported to implement the plan? Will training be organised, for example, for officials on gender mainstreaming or will other tools be made available to address gender mainstreaming? What bottlenecks do you see when implementing gender mainstreaming through policy areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u42	Ms Platteau, the Gender mainstreaming law provides for the establishment of an inter-departmental coordination group (ICG), consisting of members of the policy cells of each member of the government and officials of the federal administrations. The tasks of the ICG include, in particular, the preparation and coordination of the interim report and the report at the end of the legislature, and the preparation of a six-monthly follow-up report on the implementation of the Federal Plan Gender mainstreaming. To support the implementation of this plan, the Institute has organised a gender mainstreaming training course for ICG members. The first meeting of the ICG since this plan took place on 7 October 2021. The main focus was on the six-monthly follow-up report to the Council of Ministers. With a view to the first half-yearly follow-up report, the Institute has distributed report sheets to the political representatives of the ICG, with questions about the form the policy will take, the actions carried out and the first results achieved. On my initiative, on 25 March 2022, the Council of Ministers adopted the first report of the Federal Plan Gender mainstreaming. As laid down by law, I am pleased to present the interim report to Parliament at the end of the legislative term. As far as possible obstacles are concerned, it is too early to mention them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, it is very important that we apply the Gender mainstreaming law and that we consider in all federal policy areas how we can work on gender equality. That is why I very much support the approach, to allow all policy areas to work on it. I understand that training has been given on how gender mainstreaming can be applied and that six-monthly follow-up reports are being worked on. It was not entirely clear to me whether this could already be linked back to Parliament before the end of the legislative period and whether there would be monitoring, which would be publicly available. It would be a good thing if we could have an exchange of views in Parliament on this issue too, in order to find out where all the policy areas are in this area. I wish you every success in implementing the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, on 2 February 2021, the Court adopted a resolution on the recognition of the right of intersexual minors to physical integrity. During the discussion of your policy paper, you announced that work was under way to prevent unnecessary interventions by intersexual minors. One of the challenges is the list of criteria. At that time, you announced that you had already made progress on the preliminary draft in cooperation with the ministries of Justice and Health. Access to medical records is also a focus of attention. Not all interventions and treatments carried out by intersexual persons shall be recorded grouped. This makes it difficult to get a complete overview of their concrete medical situation. In addition, the resolution also provides for the creation of two reference hospitals, where all expertise is gathered and intersexual persons can benefit from multidisciplinary care and support. I have a lot of questions for you about that. What points of the resolution on the recognition of the right to physical integrity for minors intersexual persons have you already been able to implement? Has the IGVM recruited additional staff to take action on the issue of intersexuality? Are there campaigns already in preparation to work on that theme? Which associations may have received financial support for this? What is the state of play regarding the intention to ban non-necessary interventions in minor intersexual persons? Has a list of criteria been drawn up to determine the non-necessary medical interventions? If so, who will draw up the list? How is this addressed, given that no other country has such a list yet? What is the status of the establishment of the reference centres? Have you also had discussions with your colleagues, including the Minister of Health, on the grouping of the registration of all interventions and treatments in the medical file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u45	Madam Secretary of State, in your last replies on this subject, your priority was the development of a legal framework that is as compatible as possible with respect for the principle of self-determination in the light of European and international legislation and the demands of the associations of persons concerned, with which you are in permanent dialogue. Can you tell us more about the long-awaited legislative progress? What is the status of implementation of the resolution? What are the results of the work with your administration? What is the result of your cooperation with the MM Ministers? Van Quickenborne and Vandenbroucke in these matters to protect the rights of intersex people? Can you offer us a timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u46	As you point out, Mr de Caluwe, this resolution calls on the federal government to take various measures to improve the situation of intersexual minors. My first priority is the introduction of a ban on non-consensual medical interventions in intersexual minors. That's what it takes to protect them. My administration is currently working on a new bill. As a reminder, I had already made a first proposal to the government a few months ago. Collaboration with the Ministers of Justice and Health has highlighted complex elements to consider, including the right of the patient. We consulted with experts in this area at the FPS Public Health and the Bioethics Committee. We await their opinions and have already received opinions on our proposal from experts in endocrinology and lawyers. The feedback confirms the need to take the time for reflection in order to achieve the most balanced solution possible. It is an exciting exercise, which touches on many aspects of our society that must be taken into account in the reflection to arrive at a quality solution that will guarantee the rights of children and intersex people in the long term. It is therefore important to take the time for reflection and not to act in an emergency. Nevertheless, my goal is that the bill be passed by the government before the summer. We're moving forward and it's a priority for my team. At the same time, I will also strengthen civil society and improve knowledge on this issue through studies and campaigns under the SOGIESC plan. I have also commissioned the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, using the new means I have obtained, to devote more time to the issue of intersex persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for coming to work on that resolution. We supported it. It is important that this is done and I am pleased to hear that you are doing this effectively and that this is a priority for your team. I wish you every success with the further elaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u48	Madam Secretary of State, everything has been very well said by my colleague, whose remarks I agree with. Thank you for your investment. A schedule is set with a draft bill that should be tabled for the summer. I look forward to learning about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, you have financed 30 places for young people from the Igbtqi+ community who can no longer go home. Unfortunately, that is still happening today. This initiative was implemented in the context of the Vulnerable Groups Task Force, but has given impetus to the emergency reception policy for young lgbtqi+ people across the country. When discussing your general policy paper, you indicated that the project could only continue with the political will of the authorities concerned. At that time, you were also in favour of focusing on prevention, because you clearly have a need for more measures and means to change the mentality and improve the lives of Igbtqi+ people. Since this is actually a Community competence, you pointed out the need for cooperation with the regions. What is the status of the project on the reception of underage Igbtqui+ young people who can no longer go home? What has happened to the 30 young people you had foreseen funding for? What impulses do you want to put on prevention to improve the lives of Igbtqi+ young people? Have you contacted the Communities to establish cooperation? What concrete contribution can the federal government make to this cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u50	Mr De Caluwe, as you know, last year I allocated EUR 1 million to the temporary reinforcement of the reception and support offer for Igbtqi+ people who are excluded from or on the run from their families. This subsidy could come from the additional resources in the context of the corona crisis. Unfortunately, this was not a structural subsidy. The results were very satisfactory. The reception centre in Brussels was able to open a total of 29 reception places, all of which were occupied at 100%. In Flanders, Çavaria worked with the CAW to open 11 shelters. Arc-en-ciel Wallonie could open more than 10 shelters. I have carried out this project in close consultation with the Länder. We have clearly placed a specific need on the political agenda. I am pleased to see that this has given an impetus to the emergency reception policy for young lgbtqi+ people across the country. In Brussels, 5 million extra is now provided for the reception of women and Igbtqi+ persons. I hope that Flanders and Wallonia will follow this example. Wherever I can, of course, I will continue to support this Länder policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, it is particularly regrettable that these places are needed. Focusing on prevention is much more important. I am pleased that you have put this on the political agenda with your initiative and that there is a willingness in the regions to take initiatives in this area. So that's definitely going the right way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, I have asked you for the anonymized reports of the Board of Directors of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men (IVGM). You sent it to me, for which I am grateful. Of course there are further questions that I would like to put to you. Do you fully and fully support the leading officials and the representatives of the government in the IGVM, as you stated earlier in the committee? Do you believe that the documents you made available to the members of the committee are a correct representation of the financial management and functioning of the IGVM? Do you confirm that you were sufficiently informed about the operation of the institute? Do you think that passages that were omitted in the documents were merely omitted to ensure the anonymity of the directors and/or management involved? Do you explain that the supervision by the government commissioners was carried out correctly and ethically? Do you believe that the members of the Governing Board were given all the financial projections and data to make decisions in a timely manner? Do you want to be a political guarantor of the proper financial functioning of the institute and the organisations directly linked to it through subsidies, as well as the government commissioners? Let me take you to the workings of the vzw Amazone. How do you explain that subsidies are being granted to staff working in the restaurant, which were approved although not foreseen? How is it that the subsidy, which is not an essential part of the operation, was granted anyway? A quarterly report on the situation of the non-profit organisation was also promised. Did that happen effectively? If not, why not and what steps have you taken? The restaurant already receives a subsidy as a social restaurant. Do you therefore consider it necessary that there should also be subsidies from the IGVM to the non-profit organisation? How do you explain that the labour costs of the employees of the restaurant who also work at the convention centre were borne by the IGM at 25% and at a later date at 56% by the IGM? The Amazon vzw wants to take out a loan on the basis of the IGM certificate, against which a regular report is made. Are you serious about all this being done correctly? Do you think it is justified that the restaurant was reopened immediately after the covid period? A working group was set up, linked to the adoption of Amazon's annual plan. Was there a management agreement signed? If so, what is the content? If no, why is there no management agreement? Were there any critical questions about the 2020 budget, or were they removed, or is it purely anonymisation? Can you confirm that the budget of the Amazon association is included in the budget today? We find that the hatch is derailing legal missions. On a regular basis, there is a transfer, for example EUR 146,000 to the Governing Board of 19 September 2018. The Governing Council of 21 November 2018 also refers to a transfer, but the amount is not mentioned there. That's what I'd like to hear from you. The surplus was allocated to the legal missions. Where was this entered in the budget? Do you think it is justified to have a budgetary adjustment by the Governing Council.I am referring to the Governing Council of 24 April 2019. How do you explain that the first discussion of the 2020 budget of the IGM is immediately postponed? What conclusions and what use do you make when we found that the full amount of 2019 was not used up for those legal missions, but that a one-off increase in the budget was still granted? Do you believe that it is justified for the 2020 budgetary control that no explanatory note was available in advance? Can the Management Board be informed and take decisions in accordance with the legislation in this way? Why was the Management Board's annual report of 22 April 2020 approved without a final version available? Was there any reservation on the board? The following question concerns the financial policy of the IGM. How do you explain that a radical decision such as the appointment of a communications office is placed on the Management Board without prior consideration? In the end, a communication agency was added to the meeting. How do you explain that that company took the assignment and was not brought into contact with the members of the board of directors? In fact, reference has been made to this in the Management Board. Why was the full discussion on the 2021 budget omitted in the Management Board of 26 October? Does that have anything to do with the anonymization? Why were the annual plans for 2022 and structural grant organisations postponed by the end of 2021? In the report of the Management Board of 16 September 2020, we read that the IGM was targeted because of the allocation for Curia. Does the exception to Article 28, § 1, 4°, a, of the Public Procurement Act apply, which was not prevented by the Government Commissioner? That is the same exception to which you refer for the appointment of your lawyers in the legal missions. In the same appointment of lawyers and lawyers in the legal missions, I ask you whether the Royal Decree of 18 April 2017 is being respected or not. With regard to the various steps in the De Pauw case, I read in the report of the board of directors of 19 September 2018 that a note is being drawn up and that the members of the board of directors may consult that note, but may not take it with them. The group of victims did not request assistance in legal proceedings or mediation, but wanted the IGM to assist them in the management and organisation of media attention. Who initiated the payment of the lawyers at what time? How's that taken care of? What budgets have been paid for the management and organisation of media attention? On 9 April 2019, the Deputy Director stated that there had been no contact with the victims. However, we read the communication of 19 August 2018. The first complaint was lodged on 21 March 2018. The bourgeois election of the IGVM will take place on 19 March 2019. I would like to hear from you who paid the invoices prior to the deadline of 19 March 2019. In an answer to a written question, you referred me to the fact that there were 5 hours performed by junior staff and an hour and a half by Master Vanhecke of law firm Van Steenbrugge Advocaten. Was no invoice drawn up between 18 March 2018 and 19 March 2019? Did the IGVM pay them or not? I would also like to ask for all your invoices and the VAT state of the law firm at the hearing. Madam Secretary of State, in your answers to a written question you are talking about the qualification of sexism. In September 2020, the qualification sexism lapses. Why does the IGVM remain on board? You're also talking about the confidentiality of lawyers' fees. We've done some checking. It appears that when legal aid insurance pays lawyers' invoices, an invoice is sent without prejudice to confidentiality with the victims. This could also be done this way. Why do you continue to support the decision not to give transparency around the accounts? You also stated in committee that, when it is decided to go to court, expertise is being looked at. That's quite all right, Madam Secretary of State. Is your application of the public procurement law all right? In the Committee on 9 February, you also stated that the Management Board would be informed of the legal missions. I note that the AG2 report of the Management Board of 24 April 2019 does not mention the legal mission regarding the De Pauw case to the members of the Management Board. Then how can you make it clear to me that the members of the Management Board were indeed aware of this action? The members of the Management Board also explicitly requested access to the activities of the Legal Service. The minutes of the Governing Council of February 2021 state that they will be complied with. I would like to receive the specific question from the members of the Management Board. Those minutes state that the procedure is explained: legal notes are communicated by the file manager to the Management Board and the Executive Board decides on all possible scenarios. Can you confirm to me that the Executive Board is the only one and therefore not the Governing Board is authorised to proceed to the legal mission? An average and a median of the hourly rates of lawyers are also displayed. Is this in line with the request of the members of the Management Board? Why have no specific figures been provided? There are a number of reports about MeToo and it is mentioned that this is an opportunity for the institute. Can you confirm that the presentation of the Executive Board to the Management Board in January 2020 will provide an answer to the details? It is stated in the press that this case has cost EUR 130,000 until the end of 2021. Has that cost been submitted to the government? We remain convinced that such large amounts are best discussed at government level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, at the beginning of 2022, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men stated that a record number of new reports on cross-border behaviour and sexism were received. This happened in the aftermath of some files on cross-border behavior that were prominent in the media. These new reports were on top of an already increasing number of notifications in recent years. Also after sexual violence, care centres come at cruising speed and make more victims report and ask for help from the IGVM. In this context, the coalition agreement also provided for a strengthening of the IGVM and the structural anchoring of care centres following sexual violence. The Go for Equality note, which you have proposed to us, gives implementation to these commitments among other things. Can you indicate whether or not the IGVM currently has sufficient staff to deal with the increased notifications and requests for assistance? Has the number of staff and resources of the ICM increased in recent years in proportion to the number of files and consultative questions? How will the additional resources of the government agreement and within the Go for Equality memorandum be used to achieve assistance to victims and to strengthen the legal service? By when do you expect the new policy to be at cruising speed? Do you expect that the sum of the current resources and enlargement policies of this government will be sufficient in the light of the ever-increasing reports and requests for assistance received by the IGVM? My second question highlights a completely different aspect. In recent months there has been some concern about the organisations supported by the IGVM for the functioning of the Amazon non-profit organisation. Indeed, the Amazon vzw has a double role in the subsidies it receives from the IGVM. On the one hand, she is the manager of the Amazon House, on the other hand, she is also the facilitator of networking and events for associations active on women's rights. Therefore, Vzw's housed in the Amazon building depend on the proper functioning of the non-profit organisation. Students of the interuniversity master Gender and Diversity also rely on Amazone for some courses and to make classrooms available. Amazon has a long history, but previous legislatures turned out to have gone wrong. While the previous board of directors within the IGVM limited itself to a few comments and occasional abstentions on the vote of grants, the current board of directors of the IGVM seems to be a bit more assertive. Amazon, for example, has to make provisional budget appropriations, pending further examination of their budget work and recent implementation figures, while a request for the creation of a new documentation centre was rejected. At the same time, you announced that in the context of the Go for Equality memorandum, subsidies would also be adjusted and a more contemporary interpretation would be made. Hence the concern on the ground. In order to remove that concern, I have the following questions for you. What is the latest state of play on the subsidies made available to Amazon by the IGVM? Has a decision already been taken by the Management Board? If so, what adjustments were made? Does this decision have an impact on the partner organisations within Amazon? How do you evaluate the approach of the current Board of Directors in this dossier? Have the Management Board and the IGM acted sufficiently decisively? How do you evaluate how the Amazon file was managed in the last year? What is your vision of the future of Amazon, both in terms of the building and the services offered by the non-profit organisation? Does the framework of Go for Equality offer any new opportunities here? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u54	The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is an independent federal government institution, a parastatal B, whose mission is to protect and promote equality between women and men. The IGSM has broad legislative competence, including recommendations, the implementation and support of gender and gender equality studies and the evaluation of the impact of concrete policies, programmes and actions from the gender perspective. Moreover, the IGVM is also legally competent to intervene in legal disputes which give rise to the application of the penal law and other laws specifically designed to ensure gender equality. The financial functioning of the Institute should be considered in the light of its legal mission. I have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary of State. How is the Institute's independence guaranteed? In what way is the principle of the separation of powers enshrined in the functioning of the institute, especially when it decides to act in law? How does the control of its financial operation take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u55	IEFH has a central role in the implementation of gender equality objectives. Its operation currently allows it to carry out large-scale projects, including the national deployment of the CPVOs, or the implementation of the pilot project of the anti-approximation alarm, in collaboration with other administrations. It's good to see you. In addition, IEFH also supports civil society organisations in their work to fight for equality between women and men. In this context, the Amazon asbl plays a special role, as a "home of associations" whose mission is to create links and bring together the forces of the women's movement. At this moment in the past year's review, my questions are as follows: In addition to the IEFH's legal tasks, which are solely the responsibility of the AC, what balance sheet (political and budgetary) do you draw from the year 2021 in relation to what you have achieved thanks in particular to the support of the IEFH as an administration? What is your reading of the situation in Amazon, after a health crisis that has severely affected the voluntary sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, I am very fond of the Amazon association because it also exists in other countries. Gender was under pressure in the '90s. However, everyone will agree that acquired rights to equal opportunities between men and women are still under pressure in our society. An open house is therefore important for women's organisations, which would otherwise be very difficult for lack of subsidies. That accommodation is provided by the open house Amazon. There is also a documentation centre and an archive centre responsible for sharing knowledge on issues such as equal opportunities for men and women. The meeting aspect in the Amazon house is also important. A grant of EUR 450 000 is granted for all these aspects. The turnover of the house is about EUR 1 million, because of the fact that they also have income, but also, of course, expenditure relating to the house and staff. They are therefore not fully subsidised by the Institute and try to co-finance themselves. There is a social restaurant, which is not subsidised by the Institute. A part of the staff is subsidised because it is also used for the congress section, which is covered by the grant conditions. There's some fog spiding around Amazon. However, Amazon is controlled by an external auditor, the Court of Auditors and by the Institute's board of directors. Those are three watchdogs who, of course, do their job. Of course, it is not always obvious to run such a house, especially in the corona period in which the restaurant didn't pay off. They also did not get any support from the existing possibilities, because it is a social restaurant and not a regular restaurant. So they've missed a lot of income. As a result, the demand for subsidies has been slightly higher in certain periods of corona than in the previous period. A grant of funds was made by the Institute before approving the organisation's annual plan. The Court of Auditors' observations were also taken into account, which means that the organisation's annual plan will be adopted in November for the financial year instead of January. Madam Secretary of State, what criteria are used to grant subsidies to organisations such as Amazon? Is there a structural framework for this? Is such a framework being considered? What is the current state of play with regard to the granting of subsidies to Amazon? How many funds have been allocated in the past and how many today? In view of the above, the Commission concludes that Amazon has not provided any evidence to the contrary. If not, when is this report expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u57	Mr President, the Institute's legal mission is to ensure and promote gender equality and to combat any discrimination or inequality based on sex. The Institute does this, on the one hand, as an independent body that informs citizens and organisations, assists victims, carries out investigations, formulates recommendations and establishes a network of stakeholders and, on the other hand, as a body that supports the federal government in implementing gender equality policies. Article 8 of the IEFH Act 2002 stipulates that the Board of Directors shall have all the powers necessary for the functioning of the Institute and the performance of its tasks. He therefore has the right to organize his work as he sees fit, within the legal framework set for him. It is not up to me to answer the many questions concerning the timing of the Board's work, the agenda of its meetings and the content of the deliberations. Mrs de Laveleye, I would like to join you: the Institute plays a leading role in promoting gender equality in Belgium. With respect to IEFH's support to the federal government, I am proud of what I was able to put in place in 2021, with the support of the Institute. I think, among other things: - approval of the National Plan of Action to Combat Gender-Based Violence 2021-2025; - the adoption of the Federal Gendermainstreaming Plan; - the organization and follow-up of two major civil society consultations in these two areas; - the coordination and follow-up of the various partnerships which led to the inauguration of two new SPCVs in 2021 in Antwerp and Charleroi; - Manual on the Code for Reporting Female Genital Mutilation; - the evaluation of the pilot anti-approximation alarm project in Ghent and the decision to deploy it in West and Eastern Flanders and then at national level; - the project to support the employment of the most vulnerable women under the European Recovery Plan for a multi-annual amount of EUR 3 million; - the biennial report on the wage gap, which allows us to obtain figures to support our policies. And I could still mention a lot of projects, as well as several colleagues who get support from the Institute, particularly as part of the gendermainstreaming of the recovery plan. Mrs Jiroflée, you asked whether the Institute had and will have sufficient resources to carry out its tasks. It is because I am aware of the enormous stakes and the important work to be done by IEFH to carry out its tasks that I have obtained an increase of more than 5 million euros annually from 2022. I will focus on the "legal support" aspect, which deserved to be strengthened in view of the increase in reports of discrimination seen in recent years and which is the subject of several questions today. Mrs. Depoorter, the Institute's legal department's budget is not derailed. What happened in 2018 and 2019 was the result of two opposite developments. On the one hand, there were the savings made during the previous legislature on the Institute's budget, on the other hand, the continuous increase in the number of reports at the Institute. The increase in the number of notifications also dates from before MeToo and the De Pauw case. Since 2018, the number of notifications has increased by more than 100 annually. Between 2014 and 2022, the number of notifications more than tripled while the budget for the operation of the legal service remained unchanged for a long time. That is one of the reasons why I, as Secretary of State for Gender Equality, have been able to secure more funding for the Institute from 2022 onwards. Of the additional funds, EUR 300 000 is explicitly earmarked for a necessary increase in the budget of the legal service. There is also a staff reinforcement, with 3 additional vte's for the legal service. Will that be enough, Mrs. Jiroflée? I don't think so. However, it is a step in the right direction to help the victims. Mrs Depoorter, as regards your more technical questions about the budget, I must remind you that the Institute is a so-called administrative public institution with management autonomy. Mrs Platteau, the Institute follows the rules applicable to such organisations, including in the financial field. The Institute is therefore not subject to the budgetary rules applicable to the classic Federal Public Services. The general account must be drawn up by the managing body and approved by the competent minister. It shall send it to the Minister for the Budget by 1 March at the latest. The Minister for the Budget must submit all accounts to the Court of Auditors before 31 March. The Law of 22 May 2003, the Royal Decree of 10 November 2009 and the Royal Decree of 29 April 2012 define the contents of the General Account. Mrs Depoorter, regarding your specific questions about the legal service budget in 2018, I can tell you that on 19 September and 21 November 2018, the board approved an increase in the budget. For the sake of clarity, these were budget shifts, not an increase in the Institute's total expenditure. The Budget Commissioner was present in the discussion of these budget shifts and approved them. Contrary to what you seem to think, such budgetary adjustments by an administrative public body with management autonomy should not be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Mrs Depoorter, you also asked a question about the agreement with the letter on budgetary prudence. Budget shifts did not fall within the scope of this letter. The initial budget of the Institute's budget is discussed at least twice by the RVB. This is the first time that the preliminary draft budget has been adopted in the spring and the second time that the final version has been adopted after the budget conclave. In 2019 there was indeed a residual amount. That was the result of two developments. Firstly, the Institute only received an additional amount of EUR 4.5 million before the summer of 2019 for the consolidation and expansion of the three existing ZSGs at that time. It was clear from the allocation of these resources that it would not be easy to allocate the full additional amount during a current business period during 2019. However, then Minister of Equal Opportunities Kris Peeters released these funds because they wanted to maintain the care centres as well and as quickly as possible. Secondly, 2019 was therefore a year of ongoing business, which meant that additional procedures had to be followed for all kinds of expenditure. These procedures took more time than usual. As a result, not all projects originally planned could be implemented in good time. Mrs Depoorter, as regards the contract awarded to BBDO for the development of a new communication strategy, I refer to the decision of the RVB of 21 October 2020 on the launch of the specifications and 16 December 2020 on the award of the contract respectively. The tenders were assessed in the light of the award criteria quality and price. The communication agency BBDO achieved the highest score. The report of the RVB meeting of 26 October 2022 was anonymised to ensure the secrecy of the debate. In these minutes, I would point out – for several questions raised here – that, in accordance with Article 6(2) of the Act of 11 April 1994 to protect the privacy of the persons concerned, all information identifying the persons to whom the documents relate has been deleted, as well as all the elements appearing in the texts and allowing the identity of the member of the board in question to be verified. With respect to the issues related to the discussions at the Board, the accompanying documents and the schedule of meetings and their agendas, I refer you to the Board that manages the Institute in accordance with the established legal framework. Mrs Depoorter, your first three questions concern the financial functioning of the Institute in the context of the De Pauw case. The Institute tells me that the passages in the report to which you refer are not about the De Pauw case, but about two other current issues. That's why the names were removed. Those three questions are thus without object. As can also be seen from the reports that have been delivered to you, the members of the Board of Directors are informed quarterly about the ongoing judicial proceedings. Of course, any member of the Management Board may at that time ask questions about specific files, but both the members of the Management Board and the Executive Board must respect the right to privacy of the victims concerned. With regard to the operation of the legal service, I would like to remind you that only 1% of the reports are given by the Institute in legal proceedings. That decision shall always be taken within the framework of the objectives of the strategic plan approved by the Governing Board. I would also like to refer to my answer to a previous question from you: on the basis of objective criteria, it is decided whether or not the Institute is bourgeois in a particular file. The Executive Board of the Institute shall decide whether the file meets those criteria. I will not comment on the discussions at the AC on legal affairs. The Institute acts independently. Ms Depoorter, at the beginning of 2019, the government was in ongoing business. According to the circular of 21 December 2018, as an administrative public institution, the Institute was able to fully implement the 2019 budget, as it was not new expenditure. Lawyer services, except for some specific aspects, are not considered as one of the traditional procedures referred to in this letter. The Institute also informed me that none of the thresholds mentioned in the circular letter in 2019 in the De Pauw case were exceeded. Mrs Depoorter, with your questions, you seem to want to give the impression once again that the Institute or its management would not work transparently, but the reports that you now have at your disposal refute this suggestion. Thank you for your interest in the situation of the ASL Amazon. Since the beginning of my mandate, I have ensured that my policies are supported by the expertise of civil society and those involved. Civil society plays a central role in defining, disseminating and putting gender equality issues on the agenda. Amazone has a special place in this ecosystem because by bringing together, in the same place, several associations active on these issues, Amazone is a place of emulation and debate on gender and women's rights issues. The funding allocated to it by IEFH and other civil society organisations has been the same for many years. It wasn't indexed. The proper allocation of resources has not been the subject of such attention on the part of my predecessors. I welcome the interest of the new CA in this issue because I attach importance to it. Amazone is a non-profit organization that receives annual funding for its triple role: service centre, conference and documentation centre. In addition, she runs a social restaurant. This is an activity that Amazon carries out in addition to the missions for which it receives funding from the Institute. The social restaurant is therefore not funded by federal funds. The contribution to part of the salaries of the staff of the restaurant relates only to the activities of the conference centre, activities which are indeed part of the Amazon mission. In 2020, Amazon had to close the convention center for a longer period due to the covid crisis. In the light of this, the Management Board approved the proposal that staff costs for the conference centre could be submitted once and exceptionally for a higher percentage. Nevertheless, the use of subsidies for part of the salaries of hotel and catering staff regularly creates confusion. As a result, the Board of Directors decided that in future grants will no longer be used for the salary costs of restaurant staff. As is the case for other organisations that receive grants, the execution of missions by Amazone is subject to an in-depth audit every year, both in terms of content and in terms of finance. As these controls have shown in recent years that there are indeed problems at Amazone, more rigorous follow-up has been put in place, inter alia through periodic reports to the Board of Directors and to the Commissioner of the Government. Amazone has proposed a balanced budget for 2022. After the end of the second quarter, the association will have to submit to the Institute a balance sheet and an interim results account, with a breakdown of the activities eligible for the grant, on the one hand, and the restoration activities, on the other. In these circumstances, the Amazon Annual Plan and Budget 2022 have been approved by the Board of Directors. Finally, this year I intend to lay the foundations for structural financing for civil society. This funding will be decided on the basis of objective and transparent criteria and will take into account the specificities and strengths of our voluntary sector, as Belgium can be proud of it. I consider 2022 a year of transition. Thus, at my request, the Institute has issued a large call for projects for a budget of EUR 1,100,000. The aim is to strengthen the organisations that work every day for more gender equality in our country, first through projects in 2022 and then through structural funding from 2023. For a healthy and truly egalitarian democracy, I believe that there is a need for both proactive policies and a sustained and independent civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Depoortere, I just want to say that I do not understand what is happening here. Objectively, there is a whole series of questions which, in my view, should not be put in this committee, both because of their type and because of the period to which we refer. We go back, indeed, to years when you were not there, Madam Secretary of State. At the time, the Board of Directors was composed of representatives of the various political groups. I don't understand the intention. That's beyond me! Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for drawing our attention to the tasks of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which has a central role in promoting equality between women and men. I am therefore particularly puzzled by the fact that this action is being called into question today, when, every week, we must remember the importance of this struggle. Finally, I would like to stress the effort you are making in strengthening the rigour in relation to Amazone. We have everything to gain from having an extremely rigorous civil society. There is a need to support and commend the work of actors and actresses who are fighting every day for equality between women and men. I repeat, I don't understand what's at stake here. In any case, thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u59	Mr President, I shall first reply to Mr de Laveleye's question. Of course, the Institute's mission is not under discussion, but it is our job as a Member of Parliament to control the tax flows, the resources of the citizens. I find a number of issues where I have major questions, such as the respect of the law on public procurement and the control role of a board of directors vis-à-vis a federal organisation. I note that that board of directors cannot carry out that control with the appropriate tables. The Secretary of State took the oath on 1 October 2020. Madam Secretary of State, I am very pleased that you are taking action on the Amazon non-profit association, but that non-profit association has now received EUR 900,000 in grants from you, as well as subsidies to set up a commission of EUR 130,000 to pay off debts. In those boards I do read a certain amount of accountability, but a sentence has been omitted that interests me. It is not legal to use that 130,000 euros of commission to pay off credits. In the Flemish regulations, this is allowed when there is a goal against it, but it is not allowed in federal regulations. The Deputy Director says he will adjust it later, but what is the 130,000 euro used for? That cannot be to correct financial problems. Whatever I keep tripping about, and there will be a lot of questions about that, is the answer you have given me about the remuneration of the management. I found that at Cumuleo for 2018 there was 200,000 euros displayed for the Deputy Director. That changed on 17 January to a fork of 50,000 to 100,000 euros. You say that the Deputy Director's salary of EUR 65,000 is not indexed. Selor, who wrote the vacancy, said that the then indexed wage was 105,000 euros, so already more than 100,000 euros. In the end, this will have been around 115,000 euros in 2018. There is therefore a non-conformity. It is essential that a federal organization correctly reflects the situation. Can you explain to me what happened there? Has the Deputy Director made a double wrong entry of her salary, or did she earn less than 100,000 euros in 2018? I'll get to the lawyer's fees. Madam Secretary of State, the lawyers selected are not in question for us. I have no expertise on this, but what remains for me is that you refuse to provide information on the costs involved in a particular case. In doing so, you rely on legislation on confidentiality, which, for example, does not apply to insurance. Where tax, VAT and insurance do have access to the costs of a particular lawyer for a particular court case, you do not give them. You are basing yourself on Article 28 of the Public Procurement Act. But is this article being complied with? Is this about conflicts of interest or not? According to my information, that is not the case. Among the examples I see from the Flemish government, public procurement is still being written out. Are you prepared to ensure in future that an organisation such as the IGM will rely on public procurement for legal missions when a court case is brought? Colleague Van Hoof, with regard to the vzw Amazone, 2019 was exactly a year in which there was less loss because the restaurant was not open. So your reasoning is actually reversed. The question that arises is whether it is necessary for subsidies to go to the restaurant. Madam Secretary of State, you say that the IGM is not subject to budgetary rules, such as the government. But it is your job to ensure that the funds are used correctly, isn't it? There are comments from the government commissioner, including under your authority. Hasn't the government commissioner done his/her job enough? Or did you trust him/her without carrying out a check? I'm asking you again. Do you fully and fully support the policy pursued by both the Government Commissioner and the Executive Board? Do you guarantee the financial flows in this organisation and the organisations concerned to which the association grants grants? In my view, the information received by the Management Board is not sufficient. Do you think that those who had to make decisions were sufficiently informed or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u60	Madam Secretary of State, from 2022 onwards, recurrent funds will be made available to strengthen the Institute's legal service, plus the three full-time equivalents, but that may not be enough, as you said. I think we should follow that closely and act if necessary. Every complaint deserves proper and thorough follow-up. Apparently, here in the Chamber, there is constant confusion between an independent institution and a government institution. We need to know that the Institute is an independent institution. This will also guarantee the independence of services, which is at the heart of the matter. I am particularly pleased that you are announcing a closer follow-up on the Amazon vzw. Amazon has a triple task, as you said. With Vooruit we hope that the vzw Amazon will be able to carry out these tasks for a long time to come. That is why we welcome and reassured that the Institute's board of directors should follow suit. Mr President, allow me to address Mrs Depooster for a moment. As far as the Deputy Director is concerned, we all know by now that the so-called disturbances in the notification of her salary were related to parental leave. The government commissioner approved that. So let us not be silly here. In fact, I wished Mrs Depoorter's party had been as thorough in the previous legislature as the current board of directors, which would have saved us a lot of trouble and much discussion in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u61	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your clear answers. You have put your shoulders on gender equality and you have also made sure that from 2022 onwards there will be more budget for the Institute, as well as for the Legal Service. But there will also be a staff reinforcement. That's necessary, given the increase in reports. I welcome that. If we are serious about gender equality, we need to strengthen the Institute so that it can fulfil its legal mission. As an independent institution, she has to be able to decide how to use those resources, especially when she puts herself in bourgeois court cases. That is essential, especially given the principle of the separation of powers. I am surprised at the words of Mrs Depoorter. You say that you support the Institute's objectives, but that is not clear from your actions. There is still a great deal of work to be done on gender equality, but also on women who are victims of sexual violence or cross-border behaviour. Since the MeToo movement, we also see that society is changing. On the institutional level, we must support this change. Fortunately, in our country, we have the Institute for that. That has the expertise and can be a legal act. The court cases against Bart De Pauw and Jan Fabre, to which you refer over and over again, illustrate how difficult it is to file a complaint as a victim, let alone to bring it to trial effectively. Through the support of the Institute, the victims dare to take that step. The Institute may also consider itself a bourgeois party. It makes the assessment of whether there is a clear social interest. This is clearly the case in these two cases. In one case, we know the judge's ruling. The other is in the process, we have to wait for the verdict. Mrs Depoorter, I'm not sure which side you're on. You seem to be on the side of the perpetrator and your party constantly attacks the Institute by questioning your suggestive questions and transparency. The committee has received all the documents, we have received a clear explanation of why certain passages were anonymized, namely to comply with privacy law. I agree with the colleague who said that there is a missing spider here. It is therefore clear that there are parties in this committee that support gender equality and support the Institute and that other parties clearly have a different view.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, your answer certainly reassures me, both about the Institute and, of course, about Amazon. You attach importance to Amazon and, as you point out, the civil society, which also exists in Belgium. The house is, of course, suitable to accommodate that. The aid granted has not increased in recent years, but rather decreased. You yourself pointed out that they did not receive any support in terms of indexation. Their resources have actually been reduced from EUR 535 000 to EUR 450 000. They did not receive any indexation. They must therefore do the same with less resources. They shall continue to guarantee the same operation. Today's audit is carried out three times a year by means of a report, which is carefully monitored by the Management Board. That's useful and good. It also provides an opportunity to review certain issues. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that Amazon is asking to be able to take over the building through the Buildings Direction instead of having to pay the rent. Maybe there's an opportunity to look at that proposal. Mrs Depoorter, otherwise you say that the restaurant was closed in 2019. They also suffered from the covid measures in 2020 and 2021, of course, which meant that they had no revenue. Because they are a social restaurant, they have not been able to enjoy all the covid measures worked out. That is why an additional subsidy has been granted once for the staff. However, as the Secretary of State also pointed out, she was exceptional and exceptional. It's not right to be spided here. You speak of an amount of 900,000 euros. I mentioned earlier that Amazon has a million euros of turnover through grants and less than half through the Institute but also through other grants. It is also a documentation centre and has its own revenue. That amount of EUR 900 000 comes from that. They have also been reduced by the difficult years and by the fact that it used to be a million euros. The amount of EUR 100,000 is not a loan but an advance on the grant. They therefore did not receive that additional amount. I think it would be useful to invite Amazon, in addition to the Institute, to clarify here in committee that this is a house that does useful work and uses well the subsidies it receives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u63	Mr President, I would still like to replicate colleagues. Colleagues, Amazon has launched 2 million euros of arrows between 2017 and 2021. Mr Van Hoof, I would like to hear your explanation. The end justifies the means, that is what I hear from all colleagues here. But the funds must be checked and properly spent. You say that the budget is audited three times a year. If you look at the reports of the board of directors, you will see that there is a different excuse over and over again. In certain years no control has happened. So you cannot come here and say that everything is in conformity. There are effective structural problems that need to be addressed. We will certainly continue to monitor whether they are being dealt with effectively. I'm here to check the financial performance. That is what I said at the outset. The content follows up Mr Van Peel. When I read that a government agency is being called upon by the government commissioner to outsource legal orders for claiming an exception to the law on public procurement for one of the segments of its operation, I can only conclude that the investigation did not take place for the other segment of its operation. Then the question is quite rightly raised as to whether that investigation has taken place for the other segment. Has this been followed up? Has the lawyers actually been adopted in accordance with the Public Procurement Act? Will that be done in the future? This is, of course, an essential function of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. As far as Cumuleo is concerned, Mr Jiroflée, I am not aware of any parental leave. If so, my apologies to the lady. We will certainly look into that, or at least look at it. My conclusion remains that there are a lot of resources flowing into this institution, but without willingness to look critically, but correctly, at accounting. This is Parliament's job, but the Secretary of State has control and responsibility. They also lie with her government commissioner, who has been sent from the cabinet to the board of directors and who has also clearly not worked optimally since October 2020, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u64	Madam Secretary of State, measure 128 of the National Action Plan against gender-based violence states that you will generalise the practice of re-search. This practice, whereby agents again visit victims of intra-family violence to monitor the situation, is an important tool in the fight against intra-family violence. We are therefore very pleased that you wish to generalise your visit. We hear from police officers on the ground that they also think this is a very good initiative. However, the budgetary impact column states that this measure will have no budgetary impact. We find this remarkable, since the redirection letter on the re-search itself states that practice means a higher workload because a new home visit is required. Will additional resources be provided for this? What do you mean when you say that generalising the practice of re-search has no budgetary impact, while it will mean more work? What means are provided to cover the increase in workload?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u65	Mrs Vindevoghel, it is true that the practice of re-searching is essential for me, since it is included in the global policy of combating violence against women. As you know, I re-examined in November 2020 in the Federal Action Plan to combat gender-related and intra-family violence following the second COVID-19 wave. The measure was developed by the COL. 20/2020 of the College of Attorneys General, which is addressed to all Belgian public prosecutors. The practice of re-search was thus already carried out before the NAP was adopted. In the context of the evaluation of the COL. 15/2020 planned for 2022 and to be carried out by the expertise network crime against individuals, the COL. 20/2020 will be the subject of an evaluating survey. As an active member of the RWAN, the Institute is involved in this work. These evaluations are the responsibility of my fellow Minister of Justice and will allow us to assess what resources may be needed to ensure the re-examination. This measure seems to me more necessary than ever. I will continue to stress to the competent authorities the need to apply this COL strictly and fully in each police area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. We think this is a very good measure to combat partner violence. If I understand correctly, those budgets were actually planned. We shall await the evaluation and see how it goes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, last week the trial began against artist and theatre maker Jan Fabre following the complaint of 11 women for cross-border behaviour, unwanted touches, sexual assault, harassment, violence and the demand for sexual acts to remain active within the dance company Troubleyn. A sexual relationship with Jan Fabre is part of this, the lawyer of the bourgeois parties sketched. The trial against Fabre was initiated by the Antwerp Labour Auditorate, which opened a study in September 2018. The employment officer mentioned the file as the worst he ever faced and the victims' testimonies very credible. Only, meanwhile, we are 2022, while the 2018 investigation dates back. Despite the devastating conclusion of the Labour Auditorate, little has been done to improve the working environment at Troubleyn. Flemish subsidies continued after the notifications and despite internal investigations. Madam Secretary of State, how do you evaluate the preparation of the trial against Jan Fabre and the assistance provided by the IGVM to the victims? Has information been exchanged in the past or was there consultation between the IGVM and the Labour Auditorate or the Flemish government about the irregularities in Troubleyn due to a desire to better protect staff? Do you see possibilities for more proactive or protective intervention in cases of cross-border behavior and sexual assault in the working environment? In the aftermath of the recent reports on Troubleyn and the figure Jan Fabre, have any new testimonies or reports entered the IGVM?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u68	The attitude, conclusion and progress of the work audit body show that these are clearly serious facts. However, the case is still pending and so I cannot go into more detail about the course and views of the case. In any case, the case proves that the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has an important role to play in the fight against sexual cross-border behaviour. The Institute helps victims when they collide on walls and find no support to address such behavior, let alone call a halt. Culture and the award of subsidies for theatre companies such as Troubleyn are among the Flemish powers. I can't speak out in that respect. As far as the possibilities for more proactive or protective intervention are concerned, I note that there is a need for cultural change, so that such behaviour becomes more discussable. Such behavior must be noted and named and no longer tolerated. This must be accompanied by the establishment of the necessary internal and external procedures. Anyone must be able to report cross-border behaviour to a trusted person, a prevention service or another body in safe conditions. The Institute receives dozens of reports each year on compliance with the regulations on well-being at work. Those reports have been on the rise for some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u69	I certainly support your plea for a culture of greater openness when it comes to cross-border behaviour. I also agree with you that the Institute should play an important role in this. I understand you're not ruling on the Flemish government. I dare to allow myself to call on the Flemish government to monitor this more closely. It took four years to draw up a file and intervene in Troubleyn self-determination. To be honest, I think that's a very long time. We should indeed work on a framework that prevents such behaviour. I hope that we can discuss this in detail later. In any case, I thank you for your answers and for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic750x.u70	Since we have no news from Mr Christophe Lacroix, his question no. 55026723C becomes irrelevant.
