ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18th 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u3	Article 59(4) of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on Institutional Reform provides that the member of the House of Representatives elected as a member of the Walloon Government, the Government of the French Community or the Flemish Government shall immediately cease to sit and resume his or her term of office when his or her functions as Minister cease. Article 59 (4) of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions provides that a member of the Chamber of Representatives elected as a member of the Flemish Government, of the Walloon Government or of the French Community Government shall immediately cease to hold office and resume his term of office when his office as Minister ceases. Mr Wouter Beke, who had resigned as Minister for Welfare, Public Health, Family and Combating Poverty in the Flemish Government, resumed his parliamentary mandate. Since Mr Wouter Beke resigned from his duties as Minister of Welfare, Public Health, Family and Combating Poverty in the Flemish Government, he resumes his parliamentary mandate. Mr. Steven Mathei, who had been admitted to serve as an effective member of the House of Representatives in place of Mr. Wouter Beke for the duration of his ministerial office, ceased to serve and became the first alternate in the electoral district of the province of Limburg. This is based on Article 12, para. 3 of the Regulation. Mr Steven Matheï, who sits as a member of the Chamber of Representatives in place of Mr Wouter Beke for the duration of Mr Beke's term of office, will again be the first successor to the constituency of the province of Limburg, on the basis of Rule 12 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to thank Mr Steven Matheï for his investment in the office since the beginning of the legislature in June 2019 and more particularly in the Finance and Budget Committees, the Control of Election Expenses and Accounting of Political Parties and in the Political Parties working group and wish him to continue his commitment at the local level as mayor of the commune of Peer. I would like to thank Mr Steven Matheï for his commitment as a Member of Parliament since June 2019, from the beginning of the parliamentary term, and more specifically in the Finance and Budget Committee, in the Audit Committee on Election Expenditure and Accounting of the Political Parties and in the Political Parties Working Group. I wish him a fruitful continuation of his commitment at local level as mayor of the municipality of Peer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, this week we heard that a consular mission has taken place to check whether Belgian IS terrorists are staying in Syrian camps. There would have been no decision on a possible repatriation, but I don't see any other reason why you're sending an investigation team. Your cabinet was reluctant to comment this week and stated that, as always, you are putting the national security of our country first. Prime Minister, it is irresponsible for this government to compromise security because of these repatriations. It is downright hypocritical to conduct such irresponsible politics in the name of security. I'd like you to tell me what that consular mission cost the payer. The previous repatriation cost more than EUR 1 million. I wonder what the cost of this is. Secondly, after this mission, do you have any idea how many ISIS gangsters have told you that they want to return to Belgium? How many of them have indicated that they want to bring their children back to Belgium, even if they do not meet the conditions themselves? Is it true that there are people who didn't even want to return the previous one and who then vowed allegiance to IS, but who now suddenly changed their minds? What about those jihadist time bombs that suddenly love Western democracies? Finally, there are also the IS children themselves. German state security said a few years ago that they are ticking time bombs. Professor Loots, who participated in your mission, stated that the mothers themselves are afraid of their own children. Mr Prime Minister, do you really think that with such repatriations you are putting national security first?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, exactly ten months ago, you and your government decided to repatriate six IS terrorists from Syria to our country. That was then allowed to cost a sloppy 1.7 million euros. I quote your Minister of Justice Vincent Van Quickenborne: "This is in the interests of our national security. Here they go under lock and key. This is where we can follow them. Here we can control them." Last weekend, it turned out that out of those six repatriated terrorists, two are now locked up. Two are completely free, how can that be, I don't know. Two are free under conditions. And two more sweats in the cell, waiting for them to be released. So we can say that you facilitated a very expensive terrorist rescue operation ten months ago, Prime Minister. Four and a half months ago, I stood here and questioned your Minister of Justice. I asked him if those terrorists were actually in jail. He guaranteed me, he guaranteed us that they were all locked up, even though we already knew better. There was already one person on the loose at the time. That says enough. That means that this government is not actively working on this dossier. One might think that a donkey does not strike the same stone twice, but we now hear that another potential rescue mission is being launched. Prime Minister, in 2019 you said yourself that bringing those terrostists back to Belgium was the last thing you wanted. You said they should be tried there. What you're doing right now, retrieving them, is not in the interests of our national security. Why do you do that? Why don't you stop this mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian Government does indeed want to repatriate some women and children from Syrian prison camps. We do that for humanitarian reasons and security reasons. Prime Minister, you can count on the support of our Group, Ecolo/Green. It is about mothers and children of Belgian nationality. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the best interests of the child must prevail. It would be unjust and inhuman to leave those children, who have been trapped there for years, to their fate in inhumane circumstances. It is also important from a safety point of view, ladies and gentlemen, to repatriate these children. We recognise that there is a huge risk of radicalisation. Moreover, we know that these camps are not well guarded and that there have already been escapes. We can't risk that safety. The Belgian Government is implementing what the security services have been saying for years: repatriation is always safer than non-repatriation. We must listen to those rational arguments. Let there be no doubt about it, women who deliberately left for Syria to join ISIS must be tried. Their involvement in the horrible crimes of the Caliphate must be investigated and they must be punished appropriately. Colleagues, we must agree on one thing: children must never be punished for their parents' actions. The Flemish nationalists should also know that. Prime Minister, how many mothers and children are we talking about this time? What are the conditions for mothers to be eligible for repatriation? What guarantees are there for our safety? What lessons can we draw from previous repatriation operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I hear Mrs Pas talk about IS gangsters and I hear Mr Metsu talk about terrorists. Do you know what it's really about? It's about children under the age of 12. What kind of society do we want to be? It is about children who are sometimes born in those camps and who are victims of effective fatal decisions by their parents. In our society, do we perhaps want to condemn these children, whose parents have made a fatal choice, for life, to die in those camps? Should they not be condemned to any chance in life because their parents have made a fatal choice? That's what it's really about. What kind of society are we? Are we a society that is going to condemn children on the basis of the choices made by their parents? I hope that you will think carefully, that you will introspecte the choice you are actually proposing here. Mr Metsu, you know the dossier very well, and I know that you have looked into it. You know very well that the previous attempts to bring children back alone did not succeed. What's the reason for that? The main reason is that the Kurds who manage the camps have always opposed it. The Kurds have always said that they will not allow the children to be separated from their mothers. What are we supposed to do? What should we say to those six-year-old children? Your mother made a fatal choice. Bad luck, shit happens. On the other hand, are we going to say that we are going to stand up and listen to our experts? Mrs Pas, Mr Metsu, you say that this is not the right choice. For our security, however, we listen to the OCAD, which makes the threat analysis. The OCAD has been very clear. The Committee believes that it would be better for national security to bring children back in an organised way and to follow mothers in a very systematic way. The rules that will apply are exactly the same as those that applied to the previous repatriation. Mr. Franken, I see you making gestures. One of the things I'm proud of is the fact that we live in a rule of law. In a rule of law, justice makes the choices. Neither I nor the Minister of Justice will tell you who belongs in prison. It is the justice system that takes the decisions in honour and conscience. Fortunately, it is a rule of law and we do not know any situations here, such as in other countries, such as Syria, where politics decides on such matters. Our security services have followed every mother very closely and considered that certain mothers should stay in prison longer. However, our security services believe that it is better for others to be free and to take care of their children. These choices are made in a state of law by the judiciary and not by a kind of semi-public tribunal where, on the basis of a total lack of information, a specific case would be judged. That is a fundamental choice. The discussion that is taking place here is a fundamental discussion. First and foremost, we are the rule of law in which we allow the judiciary to make choices in all independence. Secondly, we are a country in which we will not condemn a child on the basis of the choices made by his or her parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u8	You say that national security is paramount and that it is the main responsibility of the government to ensure security. That's exactly why you can't bring that bad guy back. It is about creatures who knowingly and willingly went to Syria to stand our society literally and figuratively to life. They want you to get back at the taxpayers' expense so that they can serve a ridiculously low sentence here. That is not the society we advocate. Of the six IS gangsters of the last time, two more are under lock and key. Jihadists, whether men or women, whether mothers or fathers, should be tried in the region where they committed their atrocities and not here. That and only that is in the interests of national security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u9	We might have seen Van Groen arrive and expected that the repatriation of IS terrorists could not be called into question. I would have expected something completely different from the Liberals. You call them moms, moms. We call them terrorists. It's about the kids for you. In December 2020, a child was repatriated without a mother, because that mother signed a document allowing the child to return in the best interests of that child while remaining behind. The other mothers or terrorists attached their fate to their children to come and get them. That's just outrageous. In your opinion, our national security would otherwise be compromised. In the Netherlands there were also five repatriations. The NCTV, or National Coordinator Counterterrorism and Security in the Netherlands, says exactly the opposite of you. If they get out, national security will be under pressure. Those five women are all still under lock and key in specialised prisons for terror.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u10	Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for the explanation. Although the caliphate has been defeated, ideology has not yet been defeated. We must continue to work on combating terrorism and deradicalisation. The repatriation of the women and children concerned is part of this. Our terrorist watchdog, the OCAD, also recommends this. Members of the Flemish Interest and the N-VA, I do not understand you at all, because what you are proposing is totally irresponsible. Your proposal is not safer, it is not fairer and certainly not in the best interests of the child. Those kids deserve a future. By bringing these children and women here, we can just better control them, and more importantly, bring them to justice and, if necessary, lock them up. As the Prime Minister has stressed, Justice will do its job.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u11	Prime Minister, I'm falling into the house with the door. Are you still pumping yourself? It's a question that everyone asks themselves: do you sometimes still fill up with gasoline? After all, I am trying to think of what could be the reason why the government is still not taking measures to reduce prices at the pump properly. I see only one explanation, namely that you do not see it yourself, that you do not fill the tank that cost EUR 85 last year and now costs EUR 111. Who can afford that? The government says there's nothing it can do about it. I don't agree. [[.]] We can't go on like this. The market cannot solve the problem. What is the result of supply and demand? I refer to Adam Smith's theory with La main invisible. The result is, on the one hand, that the working class has to pay more and more and, on the other hand, that some companies make billions and billions of euros. TotalEnergy earned 5 billion euros in the first three months of the year. The year isn't even over yet! 5 billion euros in the pocket! And what does the government do? The government isn't doing anything. I ask, Prime Minister, that measures be taken. Excise duties must be abolished. The 17 cent drop was a laugh. 60 cents per litre goes into the state treasury. You need to take measures. You must impose a price freeze and put European measures aside. We cannot continue to pay such high taxes! Go get the money from companies like Totalenergys and Shell, who make billions of euros of profits, and help the people. Will you put a further reduction in excise duties on the government table, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u12	Prime Minister, last year more than 177 000 people were dependent on food banks. At that time it was an unseen, hallucinating number. Now, in May 2022, the rows on the food banks are only getting longer. A full-time job and still to the food bank. Prime Minister, I do not know if you have read that article, but what an embarrassment, what an absolute low point for this government. Inflation is sky-high. The population is suffering from rising electricity prices, gas prices and food prices. Every day life becomes more expensive. It is no longer just about the poorest of us, it is now also about people who have a job, two-earers. Do you actually think it's normal for people to choose between food and energy? Do you think it's normal that parents can't pay the school bills anymore? Do you think it's normal for people with a full-time job to join a food bank? When is this government finally going to work on structural solutions? Why, for example, can a much lower fuel price be maintained in Luxembourg, but apparently not with us? Prime Minister, regimes used to keep the people happy with bread and play. Under the Vivaldi government, however, bread has become priceless. In our neighbouring countries we see that food prices can be reduced, but this is clearly not the place to do so. Prime Minister, when will you make sure that our people feel the difference in the wallet at the end of the month? When are you finally going to get an affordable shopping cart?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u13	Prime Minister, your government is expected to do a great deal. When I hear it like that, the funds are unlimited. Within your capabilities, of course, you will do what you can, and your government has already done a great deal. The socio-economic spending drive of PVDA and Flemish Interest, which are in line in this respect and believe that everything should come from the government, is of course very populist but also not very realistic. Prime Minister, if we want to be able to look after the people, if we want to maintain strong social security, colleagues from PVDA and Flemish Interest, if we want to ensure that the government can take care of those who are struggling, we must first ensure that there are enough people at work and contribute to the system. That is what we hear a little less about these two parties. At the end of last year, when the budget was drawn up, this government made a working deal, with 30 measures to get more people working, to ensure that social security has more income and to give people self-worth. That is the most social thing there is, namely self-esteem by having a job, by being at work and making sure that one has a place in life. Dear friends of the PVDA, of course there is nothing social about people who live from cradle to grave in a benefit system. A nice package of measures was agreed at that time. This was also enforced in the nuclear cabinet and put into a design. Prime Minister, I can't imagine anyone who is socially sensitive wouldn't want to implement that law. A clear work deal has been concluded, more people at work, more people contributing to social security,...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u14	Prime Minister, let me take a look at what the colleague said. When I saw a press conference of a majority party of the Vivaldi government this week, I was a little surprised. A vice-premier proposed thirteen points for the strengthening of purchasing power. I was surprised that none of the work deal was included in those 13 points. There was nothing about how to strengthen the labour market in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. This government has already taken many measures, for example last year's work deal on flexibility and the strengthening of training. It was admitted that this would not be enough, but an asymmetric policy was also adopted. With this we can ensure that people will opt more often for bottleneck professions and persuade people from other regions to come to work in Flanders. Those measures are on the table. I was in Kortrijk this week and found that there were ten times more vacancies than interested applicants in the healthcare sector and for certain jobs, such as forklift drivers. The labour market is bleeding. In committee we had very pleasant discussions with the Minister for Labour. This has always led to an interesting debate. Nevertheless, I have to conclude that no progress is being made. I believe in social dialogue, but I have to say that the social partners do not accept their responsibilities. Prime Minister, will you come to Parliament with this work deal, with measures to strengthen asymmetry? It is up to our group to have a partner to do all that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u15	Prime Minister, with your government, you have decided on a deal for employment, an agreement that decides how the working conditions in this country will change. It's a bad deal, a social regression agreement. Why? You deleted the eight-hour day and replaced it with the ten-hour day. The eight-hour day, this victory of the world of work for more than a hundred years, you have removed it! You want to make night work easier. From now on, employers can impose this night work on each worker individually, without the agreement of the unions. This is the wrong agreement you sent to the social partners. Of course, there was no consensus because we are facing two sides. On the one hand, there is the camp of bosses who are always asking for more - more flexibility, harder work and longer - and, on the other hand, there is the reality of the world of work. It is all these workers who can no longer afford this hyper-flexibility. It is these 500,000 workers who have now fallen ill because of the stress at work and for whom you only have sanctions to answer. This agreement is again on the table of your government and you will have to decide. We feel that the government is a little uncomfortable and I understand you because there is social pressure, the unions calling for a return to the street and the hot breath of the PTB! Prime Minister, my question is very simple. Which camp will you choose? Are you going to review your copy? Is there a party in your government today that has already requested that this deal be reviewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u16	Prime Minister, every week the subject of too expensive a life comes up in this Parliament. The weeks pass but the subject remains. Prices at the store, prices at the pump, energy prices fly away and explode. The first victims are workers, families, in particular single-parent families who are forced to take the car for work, to drive children to school or to their activities or to go to the doctor. You know, I've just been 30 years old and I see them around me these very many young people who are laughing, who are poorly paid, who have just settled in and who, between their rent and the payment of the expenses, are no longer getting away with it. In these young people, there is no more carelessness. Prime Minister, young people who do not know carelessness cannot enchant a democracy. Between disillusioning young people and pensioners who cannot enjoy their old days, the purchasing power crisis pulls all these people down. All these people are clinging to each other, but it's anxiety when you get to the pump. More than 2 euros a liter of 95 gas, it's never seen before. This is not tenable especially since it could last. Minister, how do we do it when the price of a filler is more than 120 euros? How is it done when the price of natural gas increases by 140% in a year? How is it done when the price of pasta and tomatoes increases by 30%? Prime Minister, how can we live with dignity in these conditions? Today, it is the middle class, the workers, those who get high to offer a better life to their children who fall into poverty. Here we go! It's no longer time to tarry. I know that this government has already taken responsibility on several occasions, but the spiral is so infernal that these measures are no longer sufficient today. You must come back to this Parliament with new solutions. My question is no longer how but when. When will new measures be taken to cushion price shocks at the store, at the pump? When will new measures be taken to make the energy bill sustainable? When will new measures be taken to save Belgians' purchasing power? It's a necessity. We must act, and for my group, budgetary considerations are no longer in the face of such an unsustainable situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u17	Madam President, Prime Minister, I have two minutes to speak, but I can only refer to the questions put by Mr Lachaert and Mr Muylle. Sometimes a person wonders whether what we are saying in Parliament is being listened to. It takes some time, but today I find that Open Vld and CD&V are listening to what I'm saying here week after week, because they've actually made a difference to what we've been asking for weeks. A long time ago, when there was some glow over your government, when your policy statement was expressed in the Chamber of the European Parliament, you gave the impression that you had a coalition agreement, when it was simply a sum of words without substance. That coalition agreement contains the term social dialogue several dozen times. After all, you thought, the only thing connecting you with your coalition partners was being against the N-VA, and you didn't really have any real solutions. That is why it has been constantly said that the social partners will be engaged so that you can take action behind the broad backs of employers and employees. This week, after many previous failures, it has become clear that even the social partners' technology is failing. Your proposals were: 'Every labour market specialist has emphasized this; 'No more than a very cautious move towards what is absolutely necessary, for which I can also refer to both previous speakers. Nevertheless, the social partners have rolled your proposal into a clot and thrown it back in your face. It's back on the government table now. It is rare for me to repeat the PS, but indeed, which side are you on, Prime Minister? Are you on Mr Lachaert's side or on the PS side? That question is before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u18	Thank you for the question. It is clear that at a time of economic crisis, as with the pandemic, the only way for our country to get out is by using solidarity. Solidarity in our country has worked very well in the pandemic. We have organised this solidarity properly in this energy crisis. Let it be clear, solidarity can only work if you create something. Redistributing is a good thing at a time like this. Fortunately, we live in a country where there is redistributing. Fortunately, we live in a country where the strongest shoulders ensure that those who are struggling can get through. Of course, we must also ensure that wealth is created. For this reason, when preparing the budget, our ambition in terms of employment was to achieve an activity rate of 80%. This ambition is still in place and is widely shared by all the governments of that country. All the governments in our country have put that forward. So the priority is to fill out jobs. The priority is to organise the best possible combination of work and family life. We need to see how we can give people maximum opportunities. The government has made an agreement on this. That package will enable us to move forward at a time when there is enough economic chaos. We do not want to add chaos to the very difficult situation we are already in. The agreement was that this package was sent to the Council of State and the social partners for advice. That package is coming back now. The package will normally be voted for the summer recess in this Parliament. We will take into account the comments made by the Council of State. We will also take into account the comments made by the social partners. It is a pity that no agreement has been reached there. It would be better if we could, but the government will continue its work, as we have agreed very clearly between ourselves. Mr. Hedebouw, you talked about the price of gasoline. Should you occasionally start to refuel, for example in the north of the country, you would see not only a lot of Belgian, but also a lot of Dutch number plates at that gas station. That is because we have reduced prices to a level that is much lower than in the Netherlands. A full tank is 15 euro cheaper in Belgium than in the Netherlands. That is the reality today. Those are the measures we have taken. Instead of always making fun of our policies and telling all kinds of stories, you should take a look at the figures. They are very clear: the government has cut costs of EUR 3 billion to help the people who are the hardest and who are going to work. You talk, the government makes decisions. Mr. Hedebouw, I hear what you're saying. According to you, we have to get the money where it is. What you do not understand is that, in an economy, there are times when things go well and often others where they go wrong. Mr Hedebouw, your reasoning is: we are always going to take everything away, with the result that there is not every now and then a bad year but that every year will be a bad year. That can't be the intention. We must also ensure that an economy can grow, that an economy can invest, that jobs can be created. With you, it's all the same, but everybody goes straight down. That is not what we have to sign for in our country. The policy pursued by this government during a period of crisis is a careful one. It is a policy in which we support the weakest. We have not waited to extend the social tariff for electricity to the point when prices have risen, no, we have implemented that from the start of the covid crisis. When we saw that the middle class was hit, we reduced VAT and made the indexation work. You need to look at the overall picture. If you do an overall analysis, you will see that we are pursuing a sustainable policy that ensures that we do not destroy our state finances in an irrevocable way, but also that we are taking measures to support the middle class when it is necessary. That is our policy, and that is concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u19	How strange can one be? Minister, I told you that the working class here in Belgium is no longer willing to pay so much for petrol and diesel. And what do you answer? The Belgians must stop complaining because it is more expensive in the Netherlands. But how can such an answer be given, Minister? You ask why the vialdi government is being spit out by the people. That's why! You live in another world, it's untenable. Does it matter to people to know that it's more expensive in Holland? What's the argument? What are all these proposals of the so-called left-wing parties? It's the May 1 catalog! And then the Prime Minister tells us to stop complaining because in Holland it's more expensive. No, Minister, this kind of answer is wrong! What we have to do is stop with the excise duty, and make a price freeze, because the parasites of our society are those oil multinationals that make billions!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u20	Mr Prime Minister, make no illusions, the need for food aid, the need for financial assistance, will only increase in the coming months. Life gets more expensive every day. It is a bit cynical that you refer to gas prices and to the fact that the Dutch come to fill up with us. Well, go shopping in the Netherlands for the essential messages. They're much cheaper there, they're still affordable there. The government still underestimates the financial pressure on large groups in our society. It is no longer about the 10% or even the 20% poorest people in our population. No, the group is getting much bigger. The middle class is also affected. The hardworking Fleming is also affected. Finally, choose structural measures rather than muddle. Permanently reduce the VAT on energy to 6%. Reduce VAT to 0 % on essential resources. Do something! With every minute of loss of time, the government is pushing more and more Flemings into poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u21	Prime Minister, I suspect that some groups regret that they are not part of the majority, because they strongly agree with the answer you have given me, namely that solidarity cannot exist without responsibility and that everyone must make their contribution in order to maintain our good social system. When people just heard the Communists, who obviously want to spend a lot of money, and to the Flemish Interest Group, who just copied their economic programme, it seems like everything is falling out of the sky. But it's not. Ultimately, our country stands or falls with people who work, who do their best and contribute. In this respect, the government has chosen the right course. She wants to guide people to work in a human way. I am very pleased to hear that you will make the commitment to bring the draft labour agreement to Parliament as soon as possible. We will be happy to deal with it in the hemisphere. We are counting on the groups that are all applauding today to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. This is also in line with what we agreed in the coalition agreement. I am very pleased that N-VA's colleagues are also in favour of the coalition agreement. They've been saying that here for weeks; so they support it fully. I too am pleased that a text is being submitted to Parliament quickly, but more will be needed. Important decisions must be taken in the coming weeks. For us, the best protection is a job. Work must be rewarding. We still have far too many broad measures today, and it is important that we take very specific measures quickly for those who are struggling, such as temporary unemployment. A very good move has been made today and we expect the texts in Parliament. We will support them wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u23	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to reply to the Open Vld Group, because sometimes it's a little hard here. In this country, those who benefit from cradle to grave allowances are not the ones you think, but they are the shareholders. And when I hear you, Minister, say that there is a good redistribution of wealth in this country, on the one hand I am not too surprised, because you are still part of the liberal movement, but on the other hand, this redistribution is really not correct in this country. I would still like to point out that the CEOs have seen their salary increase by 14%, while you have offered peanuts – 0.4% – to the entire working class, and that the dividends of the BEL20 amount to €8 billion. Therefore, I do not know what your vision of the redistribution of wealth is. You have not answered the question of who in your government wants to question the employment deal. Of course, I had no illusions and I want to support (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u24	Prime Minister, we Socialists have always said that aid measures can be extended, amplified, without budgetary taboo. For us, now we must intervene on the price at the pump: two euros, that is no longer acceptable! Block the prices, if you have to! Help all those households who do not benefit from the expanded social tariff but who suffer greatly from the rising prices that severely impoverish them! It is necessary to maintain 6% VAT on gas and electricity, which are obviously essential products, but also to review the wage margin, increase the minimum wage, lower taxes on low and medium wages and increase the reimbursement of the travel costs of professionals. And how do we finance all this? Finally, by taxing shareholders' capital gains, by introducing a capital tax and by taxing energy companies, which make huge profits and profits at the expense of consumers! Solutions, there are, and many!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u25	Prime Minister, how lucky there are communists. If they didn't exist, you'd invent them. After all, only in relation to the communists you do not seem to be left. In addition, you will only answer their questions. You are always glad that Mr Hedebouw is here. After all, you can still stand a little bit against the left side. You do not answer the questions of the N-VA. I'll say more: your chairman copies us the other day. That is the situation today. It's always interesting to take a look at the applause in the plenum. There's a majority. That's the news of the day. However, it is not your majority. If glances could have killed, we would have carried away Mr Lachaert's corpse when I looked in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u26	Prime Minister, your government is crawling from crisis to crisis. You've been arguing for a year and a half about whether or not to shut down the nuclear power plants, last week we had here the file on gambling advertising and just now we've seen a fine example of the absence of any activation measure. Today there is another new dossier, namely the budget for the defence sector. You are well aware that the budget should be increased to 2%, as agreed with NATO Member States. Our neighbouring countries are also working on this. For example, Germany, wherever the Greens are on the board, has already decided to make the necessary budgets available. The Netherlands has also decided to release additional funds. You too know very well that these funds must be released. We must do this not only because it is good and fun, but also to show our international solidarity and guarantee our own security. You are also in favour of this and you want to go to the Madrid Summit with it. You even took the file out of the hands of the Minister responsible, Mr Dedonder, in order to achieve it effectively. You also know that this may look good on your resume for your international career. However, the Greens are drawing a line today and saying that it cannot be done. In their view, expenditure should be limited to the agreed amount, i.e. 1.54 % of GDP and no more euro cents. That is a political profiling urge that undermines our international solidarity and our own security. Prime Minister, how will you get to Madrid? Will you go and say that we'll keep it limited to 1.54 % or will you be able to announce that we're going for the 2 %? I hope for the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u27	Madam President, Prime Minister, this morning in La Libre, you were shot – this is the case for defence-related issues! – by a partner of your majority. Although we attend it week after week, we do not get used to this brutality within your majority or to this chaos in decision-making. What is also inconvenient in this interview is the talk of demagogic relents, of opposing the necessary social reforms to the equally indispensable security efforts, when one suggests that we should not loyally support our allies and contribute to the Defence efforts in line with what we should be doing. I recall that General Thys said very recently: "We're in trouble. Our army no longer has tanks or cannons. Our frigates and planes are getting older. We don't have ground-to-air missiles or batteries to protect our airports. Our Defense is in a catastrophic state." We know that the STAR plan will not be enough to achieve the necessary level of defence. We can plague the Americans who would impose their agenda all day long, but we must put in place a European defence, and we must contribute ourselves to the necessary defence efforts. Prime Minister, what will Belgium's commitments be at the next NATO summit? The new members of the Atlantic Alliance are waiting for us there. We should not be a burden for them, but rather a sign of our solidarity with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u28	Mr Dallemagne, our security is also a question of solidarity. Fortunately, today we are part of a block of 30 countries. We can now see that some of the countries that are not part of this bloc are under enormous aggression and others are saying that they want to join us. This is what we see today: security is based on solidarity. I wouldn't advise anyone to be alone in the world today. Solidarity means, of course, that each does its part. At least as important as the question of how much one does is what one does with it. That's important. It is important to indicate to Parliament that if we spend more, in what way we want to do so. Firstly, it should be less fragmented. If we look at Europe today, everyone has their own systems. If we have to work together, it's very difficult. Due to the fact that everyone has their own systems, we often also have very expensive systems. In the United States everything is much more homogeneous. So working together is the message and our country has set an example. Our Air Force cooperates with the Netherlands; our Navy also cooperates intensively, until developments, with the Netherlands. For other components we work together with France. Moreover, if investment is to be made, economic and industrial returns must be higher. If we spend too quickly and too massively, we will buy standard products – probably in the United States – and the economic return will take place there and not here. If we spend more, we must do so with intelligence, through industrial programmes that allow for an economic and technological return. A third element is the social return. If we invest in more defence, then we as a society must get more of it. Investment in cybersecurity should pay off for everyone. Investment in military intelligence must be responsible for the fight against terrorism. Defence should develop into a fully-fledged channel of training, as is the case in many countries, but not in our country. In conclusion, if we spend more, it has to be done in a gradual way. When spending follows each other too quickly, they don't happen in a well-considered way anymore. We must also coordinate expenditure with other countries. Today we are pleased that we are part of a block that guarantees our security. The last thing I want to hear as a country or society is that we are freeriders because we do not do our part of the job. Security at the border of the Baltic States, Poland and Romania is also our security. We have committed ourselves to this. It is impossible to say that we are building solidarity with security without taking part in it. The coalition agreement makes it very clear that we are aligning ourselves with the expenditure of countries without nuclear capacity. That discussion is currently taking place in the government. Although that is still a point of discussion, I would like to make it clear that the agreement in the government agreement remains valid. In view of the current situation, this agreement can be called somewhat forward-looking. Our security is collective, but we must also do our part.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u29	"GroenLinks wanted to cut back on Defense, and that was stupid." Mr Calvo undoubtedly knows that I quote the Dutch politician Jesse Klaver, who also saw the light last month. Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a month to see the light. Prime Minister, I fully agree that we need to work together and that investment must yield a return both economically and socially. Solidarity therefore means that for Defence the standard of 2% is achieved. Convince your Green colleagues that this must be done. We have tabled a motion for a resolution, as have the good colleagues from MR. Those texts will be discussed next week. We are prepared to deliver a majority change so that the Chamber can approve the 2 % standard effectively. Let us get our hands together, because I am convinced that there is a majority in favour of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like for such serious matters to be left to the populist parties for demagogy. It is clear that we all have war in horror. We're all trying to stop it. To do this, there are no more effective means than to defend ourselves, than to deter other countries from attacking us, from attacking European countries. That is what is at stake today. This is a commitment made by Elio Di Rupo eight years ago in Cardiff. We must live up to this commitment in solidarity. It is not just about climate issues or social issues, it is also about the security of our citizens, which may be their primary concern. We must meet this concern and be loyal at the international level in this and other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u31	Prime Minister, cybercrime has entered our daily lives. Yet, the last attack this Lockbit criminal organization has carried out is sensitive and revolting. Sensitive, because it aims at an intercommunal network that leads hospitals, rest homes, Vivalia. Rebellious because it actually led to postponements in medical examinations and surgical procedures. It is doubly revolting when we know that it is accompanied by a ransom threat, conditioned by the revelation, in a few days, of data on patients, their pathologies and employees. It's really disgusting! Prime Minister, tomorrow will be a year of a National Security Council dedicated to cyber threat during which our Minister of the Interior announced a six-pronged plan, including the protection of our vital interest organizations. On that occasion, you indicated that the number and resources would be increased. However, the RCCU still lacks resources, as does the FCCU. This is a challenge for our public power. We still had all the evidence at the hearings, a few days ago, on the part of the Director General of the Judicial Police. Cyber investigators, software and even small hardware are still missing and need to be renewed every three months. We're talking about phones here. Here are my questions, Prime Minister. What work is currently being done by our police forces alongside Vivalia? What steps have been taken in the past year to strengthen control mechanisms? How does the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) collaborate with vital infrastructures? Finally, what cooperation does Europol develop?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u32	Mr Pivin, thank you for your question. The example you cite shows that no one is immune to attacks in the cyber world. We can see very clearly that the threat has been moving for years from the physical side to the digital world. The question is not whether we're going to get attacked, but when it's going to happen and how to protect ourselves from it. As you said, a year ago, we developed our cyber strategy. In the meantime, this has also been reflected in the national security strategy where the cyber element now holds a more prominent place than the terrorist threat, for example, because the cyber threat can affect everyone. The example you quote from this hospital shows how intrusive this can be in our most intimate lives. As you probably know, we have taken decisions to increase budgets that result in recruitment into a labour market that is not obvious because it is not easy to recruit specialists in this area. We have also invested in our ERF plan with almost €80 million dedicated to this area. What is also important, besides means and investments, is a culture of security in general in the cyber world. We all have some reflexes in the physical world. We don't leave our house without closing the door. In the digital world, we don't always have that reflex. Very often, in our systems, there is a lock but it is not closed because we lack reflexes. These attacks are always directed towards the weakest points. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) invests heavily in the development of this culture of cybersecurity. It has launched an application such as Safeonweb that I recommend and through which, every day, you can see what the most recent threats are. The CWB works extensively with the business community and local authorities. It's a job we all have to do together. It must be understood that it is at the weakest link that the attack is taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u33	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Commissioner Bogaert illustrated things differently by saying that he has known this computer gang since 2015. For seven years, Lockbit has been developing increasingly sophisticated tools. I would like to believe that the state has also been developing increasingly sophisticated tools of struggle for the past seven years. I'd like to believe it and I think it's possible. I believe that additional measures can be taken in defence, health and interior. Prime Minister, I also believe that you have the best tool, the CWB, to initiate these measures and to harmonize them so that they are the most effective and appropriate in the face of the perils we face today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u34	Madam President, Prime Minister, for the past few months we have seen with horror the change in paradigms within Europe on the European continent. The growing geopolitical situation in terms of dangerousness leads States, which were once in very neutral positions, especially vis-à-vis their Russian neighbour, today to want to have more security, more solidarity, as you have just said in response to a previous question. They also wish to fulfil the security conditions NATO can provide. This is Sweden and Finland. Mr Prime Minister, I can only understand their desire to integrate countries that already account for 2% of GDP in terms of their investments, countries on which we must take an example, at least at that level, in the months and years to come. However, these two countries are now in a state of deadlock with respect to one of the NATO members. I therefore ask myself whether, as a founding member country, we cannot have the possibility of mediation, of having a positive influence on what we must achieve, I believe, namely the accession of these two countries to NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, Belgium naturally welcomes the request of Sweden and Finland to join the NATO security umbrella. As I said earlier, these countries have felt very lonely in the months that have passed. After a democratic process, they made a sovereign choice in defence. For let us be clear, NATO is a defence tool. It is not a threat. The accession process must be ratified. We will call on this Parliament to do so as quickly as possible. Indeed, between the application and the entry into force of this protection, a process of ratification must take place. As far as Turkey's questions are concerned, it is necessary to define clearly what the priority is today. The priority is to maintain the unity of NATO countries, to maintain this collective protection. When two countries say they want to join NATO, this must therefore be our first priority. It is understandable that Turkey has expressed certain reservations. I know that bilateral discussions are taking place today, and will take place in the coming days, between these three countries. I would be surprised if a solution could not be found, given the stakes on the table. I am even convinced that an agreement can be reached, knowing that it is about the security of the European continent. And I think I can say that all countries, including Turkey, share this concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u36	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I can only share your analysis of the need to ensure greater solidarity between countries that wish to ensure the safety of their people. These people have already expressed themselves in their respective parliaments, in any case as regards Sweden and Finland. As you said, we will also have to speak in this Parliament when these two applications for membership have been approved. I hope that the discussions we have will be constructive, as will the talks between Finland, Sweden and Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u37	Minister, before the war, the Ukrainian health care system was very fragile. It was enough to see the number of cases of AIDS or tuberculosis literally explode in recent years. It is in this context that the war in Ukraine began - a war in which Putin bombards hospitals and maternity hospitals. As a result, Ukrainians are forced to flee and survive, rather than heal themselves. It is a fatality that our government has refused - and I thank you for that - by sending medical equipment to Ukraine. Two months ago, the only answer that I managed to extract from your government was that the shipment of this medical equipment would be via B-Fast or via the Public Health FPS. At the time, we were entitled to hope that quality would prevail. But that was not the case. Today, the press tells us that almost 20% of the medicines and 10% of the supplies that were delivered had a expiry date that would expire three weeks after their arrival in Ukraine. However, the WHO guidelines, Mr. Minister, are not clear: any drug supplied abroad must have a shelf-life of at least one year. Today, you tell us with great cynicism that we had to act very quickly and that the Ukrainians agreed to receive these medicines. But was Ukraine in a position to refuse such donations, given its serious health situation? Was it not your responsibility to check the quality of this medical equipment, especially since, two weeks later, you had it removed, because the expiry date was less than six months? Why did you do it for this second shipment, and not for the first? Finally, can you assure us that these drugs will not endanger the health of Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u38	Mr. Secretary, you are most likely familiar with the Court of Auditors' blunderbook. On page 168 of the 2010 issue of that scandal, it is clear that the government then destroyed 5 million flu vaccines and 4.6 million masks and that that destruction cost EUR 85 million. That was not enough, because there was still EUR 33 million to be paid to GlaxoSmithKline for 4 million doses that were never requested and used, on the advice of our flu Commissioner, Mr Van Ranst. In April 2020 I stood here at the same puppet and asked about the mouth masks. That question is probably still on the cabinet, if you have inherited it, because I have still not received an answer. Then it was said about the mouth masks that we didn't really need them. Those mouth masks weren't so important to stop the epidemic. After all, what turned out to be? Turns out we didn't have one. The government burned them. She had tens of millions of mouth masks, between 22 and 63 million masks, burned in Van Gansewinkel's oven. It's two years later now. We are only two years away and now it appears that the strategic stock of Health again contains EUR 98.5 million of expired medicines. What is the government doing to get rid of that stock? She's giving it to Ukraine. It makes a donation to Ukraine, first a small gesture of 3.4 million euros, 140,000 needles that were in principle no longer allowed to be carried out and 280,000 doses of medication that were no longer allowed to be carried out. Minister, is that the way to help Ukraine? I have to admit that my pants are falling from substitute shame for such a policy. I am waiting for your answer and I would also very much like to hear how we are getting that EUR 100 million of decayed medication.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u39	Colleagues, when a country is attacked suddenly, it is necessary to help its people. Not reacting would be guilty negligence. Our Public Health FPS responded immediately when, on 24 February, Ukraine requested assistance. The following day, on 25 February, the SPF proposed to Ukraine a list of medicines with all the details, including expiry dates. This offer was accepted by Ukraine on the same day. We provided morphine and other medicines that could be used immediately, especially in operating rooms, to help the injured. It is true that in this list – for an amount of EUR 546,000 – there were products with a expiry date within a few weeks. Although everything has been done in good faith and Ukraine has accepted this offer, this is not standard practice. That is why FPS officials have said that this should be avoided for the second delivery. I believe that the way this case was described in Het Laatste Nieuws is far from reality. It was an immediate reaction to send morphine to help the wounded. Mr Dedecker, it is a bit uncharacteristic, but you are very much behind in your question. A detailed press release was published on 1 April 2022 on the fact that stocks of EUR 81 million are to be destroyed. Yesterday we discussed this in detail and in detail in the Committee on Health. So it's a little weird that that question is coming back now. I would like to repeat the whole of yesterday's answer, Mr Dedecker. The reasons why we are dealing with a stock that is no longer useful, what we are doing about it and also what we are going to do to avoid that in the future, of course, have all been discussed in great detail in the Committee on Health yesterday. It is strange that this is coming back today, but of course you cannot be everywhere at once and I apologize for the fact that you are a little behind on your information. However, saying that we would have dumped that stock of EUR 81 million in Ukraine is completely nonsense. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer, although I find it a little easy. It was not a question of choosing between urgency and negligence, but, on the contrary, of choosing a middle path which is that of anticipation. As much urgency could be justified in the head of the Ukrainian government, who had no choice but to accept these medicines because he needed them to treat his people, as you, Minister, can not today wave this emergency to relieve you of your responsibility to build strategic stocks of medicines, as we taught the health crisis with the famous saga of masks. As far as the health of Ukrainians is concerned, in other words, the impact of drugs on their health, you give absolutely no answer, whereas the risk today is that these Ukrainians will use these drugs, thinking that there will be no impact on their health and that these drugs will act, while either they will act very little, or they will not act at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u41	Apparently, his intellectual highness didn't listen very well. I said it was EUR 3.4 million of globality. Got it? If necessary, I can repeat it again, Professor. Second, you're supposed to know the law. The rules of the World Health Organisation say that no more medicines can be exported that are sustainable for less than a year. Yes, you did. You didn't do that once, there was even a repetition. The second time, however, they saw it, it was released. Then everything that had an expiration date for October would be taken out. It's kind of cowardly to say that we helped those Ukrainians anyway and that they knew. As far as flight behaviour is concerned, this can definitely count.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u42	Madam Secretary, never before have so many people had to appeal to the food banks. In a month's time, the number of people who have to queue at the food banks increases by more than 25% in some places. That's thousands to tens of thousands of people extra every month. The reasons for this are clear. Inflation increases food prices, which were already very high. In addition, families also have to cope with rising energy prices. More than that, Madam Secretary, today is no longer just about people who have to live on a living wage. Today it is no longer just about single moms and dads who work and who have to make ends meet. Today we are also talking about families where both parents work. Hardworking families today have to make painful choices: either they heat their homes or they provide food for their children. That is unacceptable, Madam Secretary. How is it possible in our country, in our society, that people who work should call on the food bank? Work must be waged, even in times of crisis. Whoever works must be able to warm his house. Whoever works must be able to buy food for the children. Whoever works should not only be able to survive, but also enjoy life. Madam Minister, the line at the food banks is not only becoming longer, but also the number of donations from food distribution is falling dramatically. As a result, the food banks themselves must provide more resources to buy food. Madam Minister, what are your plans to meet the rising demand from the food banks, not only now but also in the years to come, when the budget is in danger of falling dramatically?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u43	Madam Secretary, feeding the children or heating the house? That's the choice Katrien stands for. Katrien is a 36-year-old, single, working mom who earns 1,800 euros a month. She's facing a very hard dilemma. And that's what more and more working people are experiencing. This is also felt by the food banks. Last year, 180,000 people knocked on the door every month for a food package. Their numbers are growing. Every month we see the numbers rise. It's not just about life laborers. Also in working people like Katrien the need is increased, the water is on their lips. At the same time, we note that the food banks receive fewer donations from the food industry. It was also announced that public support would decrease from 2024 onwards. That only complicates the situation. This government has already taken measures to partially compensate for the increase in life expectancy. CD&V explicitly calls for attention to be paid to the working class that is no longer around and in whom the water is up to its lips. We ask that we do something about the long queues at the food banks. It is poignant enough that people in a prosperous country like Belgium have to wait for a food package. The psychological impact of this is not to be underestimated, let alone that the numbers continue to increase and that more and more working people have to resort to the food banks. Madam Secretary, what will the government do to protect vulnerable people from the rise in life expectancy? Will you pay attention to the growing group of working poor, in whom it is found that they can no longer go on? Finally, what will you do to further support the food banks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, between 2014 and 2020, the number of people in food aid through the FEAD increased by 70%. Even before the various crises, demand for additional aid increased. During this period, resources will only increase by 6.3 %. Since my arrival, I saw the urgency of this food insecurity. I decided to increase the allocated funds from 2021 to 19,911.651 euros. This means an increase of 51%. The corona crisis and rising energy prices mean that more and more people need food aid. For 2022, we decided to increase food aid resources to EUR 26,175,572. This comes from the FEAD programme and represents a doubling of resources compared to 2020. In parallel to this FEAD policy, we released 5 million euros for the OCMWs in 2 years and 5 million euros for material aid, such as hygiene protection, diapers and personal hygiene products. There were fewer donations from the agri-food sectors. As a result, the food banks were faced with fewer food and food. To assist them, we also allocate EUR 4.5 million to this sector. My administration is in regular contact with the sector and we are following developments closely. Given the current situation, in the context of the 203 budget, I am taking care to maintain the current amounts in order to meet demand as long as this situation occurs. If we can properly assess the resources and needs, this will automatically allow us to adopt a proactive policy on new applications from the food banks. It is our duty and responsibility to help people in vulnerable situations. Above all, however, we must ensure that our fellow citizens do not end up in such situations. To do this, we need to take strong measures, such as an increase in the minimum wage, a reduction in taxes on low and medium wages and a permanent reduction in VAT to 6% on energy. We must continue to dare to improve living conditions for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u45	Madam Secretary, never before has a government invested so much in the purchasing power of the working people as this government with socialists. You increased minimum wages and net middle incomes. You reduced VAT on energy. You gave everyone a heating premium. The extended social tariff for energy was extended. Today, however, the price increases are so high that some people unfortunately do not feel anything about them. Today's price increases are so enormous that even working Belgians have to call on the food bank. It really can't go on like this. Something has to be done. There needs to be more investment in the purchasing power of the working people. That is the message from the Group of the European People's Party to your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u46	Madam Secretary, it is good that you will support the food banks. However, we must also think in the longer term. After 2024 additional support will also be needed. It is appalling that even the food banks have yet to exist. I'd rather we could get rid of all those food banks, not need them. How can we imagine, in a prosperous country like Belgium, that people are pushing for a package of food? We must therefore take structural measures as a preventive measure. People's purchasing power must be preserved. It is not just about the small group of disadvantaged people, but about an ever-growing group, including working people. All the alarm bells will have to go off. Everyone in this government must intervene in all areas. The CD&V will do the same. We will certainly also give you the support to work with the government to protect the purchasing power of all people. The working class must certainly be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u47	Madam President, Madam Minister, I wanted to say "Mr Georges Gilkinet". I'll be hard enough in my speech. I'm used to being hard on Mr. Gilkinet. He's a friend, so I can be hard on him. Don't talk to me, Minister, about Vision 2040! It's 18 years from now. It's 2022. It is today that it takes means for the trains to run. Until three or four weeks ago, Georges Gilkinet replied that it was the crisis of the covid that meant that there were a lot of absentees. Trains today do not ride on certain lines because there is a lack of staff. Minister Gilkinet's responses to this problem are not sufficient since the SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail staff unions filed a joint strike notice for May 31. It's been a long time since it happened. "We are no longer able to provide basic services and the negotiation of public service contracts does not offer any prospect," says the CSC Transcom. That's why I'm telling you not to talk about 2040 because it's 2022. Trade unions go through the strike because the state of social dialogue is poor. Improving it is a claim already justifying this strike. The other demands are clear: more operating budgets, easier terms of engagement, and guarantees for the pension system. Minister Gilkinet, minister, excuse me, what are your answers to these different requests? What solutions do you propose? Do you have any opinion on how Infrabel and SNCB could otherwise distribute their operating budgets to spend more money on core missions, that is, to the workers who run the trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u48	Mr Arens, Mr Gilkinet tells me to answer this. First of all, he thanks you for asking him again about railway personnel. You seem to share that concern. After all, you have noted it, it is many women and men who guarantee the service on our rail network every day. Indeed, this week the railway unions announced to join the national action of 31 May in the public services. A strike notice has been filed at the common front and, as provided for by law, a minimum service will be arranged. Minister Gilkinet hears and understands the concerns of railway personnel, and meets regularly with representatives. The rail savings decided by previous governments hurt SNCB and its staff very much. Savings that were disconnected from any strategic vision. These savings, as well as the exceptional circumstances we have experienced since 2019, have a real impact on the ground for travellers and SNCB staff. This is why the SNCB recruited 260 train attendants this year. They are currently undergoing four and a half months of training and will be deployed in the next few days. Mr Minister would like to say – and I am speaking for it – to both rail personnel and travellers that there has never been as much ambition for Belgian rail. Driving more trains will inevitably require more rail personnel, especially drivers and attendants. You didn't want me to talk about Vision 2040. After Vision 2040, the Minister is working hard to provide SNCB with a real public service contract that will be complemented by a clear and stable fiscal path that the government will look at in the coming weeks. Mr Arens, the challenge is immense, but this challenge is commensurate with the role that rail will play for tomorrow in terms of climate, mobility, energy independence or road safety. And you know, in the Belgian rail file as in the other files, that you can count on the determination of Minister Gilkinet as well as of the whole government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. You are trying to prepare 2040 but you have limited yourself to 2022. It is clear that you have a government agreement to develop the rail. And when there is a government agreement, we can afford to ask for a budget and develop projects to get it. That's what we're asking you. We need to go further, we need to innovate. There are three different structures at SNCB and we prefer to treat the heads of these three structures financially to the detriment of the workers, of those who drive trains on a daily basis. We expect results in terms of social dialogue, we expect a better distribution of the operating budget and better conditions for staff engagement. I will end by saying that by reuniting this company, we could make a lot of savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u50	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia. We have seen this, fortunately, in the Rue de la Loi, by the rainbow flags and a rainbow zebra path, among other things, at our Parliament building. Despite the progress made, unfortunately, there is still verbal and physical violence, often motivated by hatred and ignorance, in relation to those who do not fall within the so-called heteronorm. The 2007 Act states that discrimination on grounds of orientation is a crime with aggravating circumstance or a hate crime. Madam Secretary of State, freedom means to us that one can be who one is in all safety. Liberals strongly support that principle. I know that goes for you, too. That is why we need to be able to go to the police. This organisation must be open to the diversity that characterizes our society. Again, much progress has been made, but victims of LGBTQI+ violence are still not properly received. Madam Minister, you replied to one of my written questions that there is a reference person in 120 out of 185 police zones today against hate crimes and discrimination in office. That should be 185. So there's still work to be done. Victims should not be subject to thresholds to report. Will you include complaints about under-reception of victims of LGBTQI+ violence as a category in the general national database? Do you intend to offer the further training reference person not only in Hainaut, but also in the other police schools? Would you like to make a commitment that by the end of this year all police areas will have at least one member of staff who has been trained?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u51	Madam President, Madam Minister, on May 17, it was the Day to Combat Homophobia and, this Saturday, after two years of absence, the Gay Pride parade will return to the streets of our beautiful capital to carry high and strong and under a radiant sun the colors of the rainbow but above all to carry high and strong the values of inclusiveness, equality and respect. And I have one regret, that it is only a day a year, since at all times and anywhere, 365 days a year, 24 hours a day and in every beautiful part of our country, we should be concerned about these values. I wish to walk hand in hand with my companion - even if I confide in you, I still have to find him - without being insulted, without being harassed, without being discriminated against, without being beaten, without being killed. I have a special thought right now about Ihsane being killed ten years ago and about David being killed last year. On Tuesday, Minister, your government adopted an ambitious plan of 133 measures, and you are a major player as Minister of the Interior. Should I recall that in 2021, Unia opened 176 cases related to sexual orientation discrimination. This figure is significant and is on the rise. Minister, based on your policy brief and our government's agreement, what concrete initiatives can you take to reduce the psychological, social and physical insecurity of LGBTQIA+? What can you do to encourage victims to file complaints with our police with a follow-up and reception for the third millennium? What can you do to encourage witnesses not to remain silent and to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u52	Minister, Madam Secretary of State, as has been recalled, Tuesday was the International Day to Combat Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia. This day is part of the month called "Prides", during which LGBTQIA+ people can finally express themselves and claim their pride in being who they are. Speaking of pride, this is perhaps the time to recall that Belgium benefits from one of the most progressive laws in the world and is one of the top rated countries "LGBTQI Friendly". However, this is not just about pride. We know that many countries prohibit homosexuality and transidentity. And we must not go to the other side of the world: at the gates of Europe, for example in Poland, we are still inventing "LGBT Free" areas, thus endorsing stigma and violence against the people concerned. In Belgium, their journey is not always simple, as has been recalled. Young people don't necessarily know where to ask their questions. Some people are discriminated against in employment and housing, but they are also subjected to a great deal of violence. I am thinking today of Ihsane, David or Jean-Pierre who paid for their fight with their lives. Indeed, if it is a day of pride, it is also a day of tribute to all those who have struggled hard for years - and this is never over - to get their rights. It is therefore a month of pride and tribute, but it is also a month of struggle, because the rights of LGBTQIA+ people are never acquired, neither at home nor internationally. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, you have announced an ambitious agenda of 130 measures. What are the priorities? What means are you going to allocate to them? Madam Secretary of State, you have announced your intention to fight conversion therapies. What is the status of this vital issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an important week. But actually, every week there's got to be one against homophobia. We cannot accept homophobia, and that is why we are also working on the fight against it in the police. Indeed, the fight against discrimination and hatred has long been a priority, both in the internal organisation and in the provision of services to citizens, primarily in recruitment. The police actively seek meetings with potential candidates with a different background, a different culture, a different orientation than we too often, one-sidedly, see with the police. In addition, the police are given training both in basic training and in continuing training, Mr De Caluwé. We will continue to work on this. Today, 125 out of 185 police zones have a reference person for reporting hate crimes and discrimination. They can receive victims in a good, organised way, which lowers the thresholds for victims to report. I will absolutely ensure that such a reference person is present in every police area. In addition, there are many examples of local police areas carrying out specific awareness-raising activities. There are also reference points where victims or witnesses can report such incidents. There are so many examples. This Saturday, as in previous years, local police will participate in the Gay Pride in Brussels. We are already doing a lot, but we could still do more. That is why, this week, we signed a specific protocol with the Rainbow Cops to deal with these incidents, to better train, to give more information to the police. This association of police officers focuses on this topic internally and externally. I think we'll be able to make a difference. Mr De Caluwe, you asked for a separate declaration or entry into the general national database. I'm not convinced that's the only answer to that phenomenon. All forms of crime must be reported. So today it is not an item on the agenda to create a separate category. We must, of course, ensure that we provide victims and witnesses with the right solution. We'll keep working on that. We have seen last week, and everyone is thrilled about it, I assume in the hemisphere how the flags are waving and how the Wetstraat was adorned in the rainbow colors. Above all, let us convince each other that it is not just this symbolic action, but that we are working on equal treatment on a daily basis. I will not only implement the agreed action plan, which we signed last week, but also convey the message further in the organisation of the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for putting this important subject on the agenda today. The day after May 17, I think it is important to remember that the rights of LGBTQIA+ people are recent. They have been conquered through the organisation, mobilization and struggles of the people concerned and the LGBTQIA+ associations that represent them. These rights are never acquired and constant vigilance must be maintained for their defence and to continue to go further in the protection of LGBTQIA+ people, both here and elsewhere. A few days ago, the Council of Ministers adopted the federal plan for a LGBTQIA+ friendly Belgium. This plan contains several flagship measures, including the prohibition of conversion therapies. With this measure, I want to send a very clear signal: those who are not sick must not be treated. You asked me about the deadlines. The bill is on the table in the Council of Ministers and we hope that it will be adopted before the summer, before it comes to Parliament. I think it is really important to highlight the central point of this plan. It is for me the mother of battles; it is the mother of mentalities. Each and every one of my colleagues involved in this plan, and Mrs Verlinden is the perfect example, is this set of commitments in parallel to the legislative work that must obviously be carried out. I am talking about training, raising awareness, in order to create the most inclusive public sectors possible, inclusive public spaces, inclusive public transport, health sectors that are the most inclusive for LGBTQIA+ people. Another important theme of the Action Plan is the increase in knowledge about the LGBTQ+ community. That is why we have decided to finance the research of the Dossin barracks on homosexuals and lesbians in Nazi Europe. We must never forget what hate can lead to. Finally, on the question of budgets, I can proudly announce that, for the first time, a specific budget will be devoted only to issues of equal opportunities and the implementation of this plan, that is to say to the matters that concern me, for the financing of the association and our administrations in order to be able to do their work properly. Secondly, all of my colleagues involved in this plan committed themselves to identifying the means necessary to implement their commitments. I would like to conclude by recalling the responsibility that we all have here in this struggle for the rights of LGBTQIA+ people. We must not let anything pass. Finally, I wish Mr Senesael every success on Saturday at La Pride.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u55	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I welcome the federal action plan, which rightly calls for further efforts to raise awareness of police officers. That is good news, because unfortunately we still need a day against homophobia and transphobia. We saw that last week, even when a rainbow flag commotion arose at a school, mainly inspired by fake news, so the students do not know the correct meaning of that flag. However, even in the hemisphere we are not free from such incidents. On International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, Members of our Parliament consider it necessary to appoint transgender persons as people with psychological impairment. The LGBTQIA community will always have an ally in my party and in myself. Mrs Pas, I hope you address your group member on his disgusting tweet. Maybe he should also take part in the Belgian Pride on Saturday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u56	Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Madam President, a minute is short, but it's the minute of pride. Indeed, I am proud to sit in an assembly that proudly displays the rainbow. I am proud to be a member of the PS, a political group that continues to fight for LGBTQIA+ rights. We will continue to be the driving force behind this fight. I am thinking in particular of marriage and adoption for all, the use of the LDC, the anti-discrimination law, LGBTQIA+ plans in Wallonia and Brussels and the protection of intersex minors. The government's plan is essential and must be implemented. We will take special care of this. The fight is not over. Each or every one must be able to be the one he or she is. Colleagues, I will take Mario Scolas' thought: "A prosperous country is a country without homophobia."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u57	Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I can only support this right. As it is the month of pride, I would like to reiterate my pride in having a government that has put the fight against discrimination and the valuing of diversity as the foundation of its work. I therefore thank him for that. However, I am also very concerned about raising my children in a country where discrimination still exists, in which there are still people who suffer in their flesh and in their privacy from the violence and discrimination they face. I hear there's an ambitious plan. You also say that not everything is in the plan. It is up to all of us to make our country a country of inclusion and diversity, proud of that diversity. Let us be numerous and numerous, on Saturday, to shout our pride in the diversity of our country and, above all, our support for those directly concerned who are still fighting day to day for their dignity and who need the support of women and politicians, and of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u58	Madam Minister, no one should enrich themselves in the wake of the greatest energy crisis ever. Those were your words to me here in the hemisphere. What do we see today, however? We see that large companies are currently making a lot of profits. Madam Secretary, this week Engie gave the interim results. They have made half a billion euros in their nuclear power plants in three months. This profit is recorded by the company at a time when invoices have tripled and people no longer know how to pay that invoice at the end of the month. If one finds that the company has earned half a billion euros in three months' time, then I can no longer be explained. It's really hard to explain. We have already talked about this and you have promised measures. The government is now giving back all the surpluses, the extra profits and additional income, thanks, among other things, to the measures taken by the government. I believe that such a company should contribute and that we should skim off those profits. They must contribute to the purchasing power of our families through a purchasing power contribution. You promised, and we are waiting for it. However, that was not enough. This week, Engie also came up with the message that the company wanted more clarity about the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and the management of nuclear waste. I'd like to make that clear. It can be explained in three words, namely the polluter pays. It's as simple as that. If we have gone along with Vooruit in extending the lifespan of two nuclear power plants, then in the current difficult times, among other things, it was to reduce people's energy bill, not to add an additional waste bill. Madam Minister, I know that you are taking part in the negotiations and I would very much like you to make it quite clear here whether we will transfer the waste bill from the nuclear waste to the people or whether it will end up with those to whom it is to end up, namely with the companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u59	Mr Verduyckt, your question is relevant in the context of Electrabel's communication with the figures. However, this question is very pertinent in the light of the work that we have started this week in committee. In fact, we have begun to introduce the draft law on nuclear commission, the resources needed for the management of nuclear power stations. The question about the cost and the question of who is going to pay was and is more pertinent than ever. By 2025, five of the seven nuclear power stations will close down. The decommissioning will take decades, it is the longest, most expensive and delicate yard. It is about EUR 41 billion, as far as we know at the moment. We also know today that we do not have a definitive and final solution to this nuclear waste. However, we do know who will pay the bill. That is quite clear, as you said, the polluter pays. Negotiations with Engie on the modalities for discussing the lifetime of nuclear power plants are under way. These are within the terms of reference agreed within the government. I would like to repeat this mandate here: 'The nuclear operator and the contributing company are and will remain responsible for decommissioning and the irradiated fuel and all the costs associated with it for all seven nuclear reactors. The Belgian authorities will not be an operator." That is the mandate given by the government to me and the Prime Minister to conduct these talks with Engie. I believe that it is also an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u60	Madam Minister, it may be the last question this afternoon, but it may also have the greatest budgetary impact. That is why I welcome your words on this mandate and on the draft law that you have already tabled in committee. It has not yet been approved, but it is very important. I would like to repeat once again that we have agreed to keep those two nuclear power plants open in order to have an impact on the energy bill. That is essential for both of us. On the one hand, we must skim the excessive profits and use that contribution to invest in people's purchasing power. On the other hand, it is particularly important that the cost of decommissioning nuclear power plants should remain where they belong, namely the polluter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u61	Mr. Verduyckt, Madam Secretary, thank you both.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u62	Not related Without report As amended by the Senate Complemented by the Senate Bills referred to the House by the Senate are no longer the subject of general discussion (s. 87 Rgt). There is no longer a general discussion on a bill which has been returned to the Chamber by the Senate (Art. 87 Rgt).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u63	Madam Chair, we are going to support this bill because it repairs an anomaly or an oblivion on statements of heritage concerning the mayors and district aldermen. Nevertheless, we find that there is something missing in this text. We are talking about a declaration of heritage, but at no time are we talking about transparency vis-à-vis the citizens. Citizens must have access to these statements. Other countries are doing so and we wonder why this would not be possible in Belgium. Political scandals related to corruption, malfeasance, abuse of public property, we have them almost every day. Belgium is no exception in this respect. In recent years, a course has even been taken. There is no linguistic border in this area because there have been scandals on both sides of the country in recent years: Publifin, Publilec, the Brackegate, the Kubla case, the Samusocial case. In the latter case, the mayor and the president of the CPAS Brussels were called into question for meetings paid at exorbitant prices. All these scandals raise the question of the political world's connection to money, which is quite unhealthy. Our fellow citizens elect us and pay us. We are employed by the public to do a job and the people who are supposed to defend the interests of the public and enforce the rules are the first to break them. The least we can do for our citizens is to get transparency. I'm not even talking about accountability or money. Let us remember the slogan in the Fillon affair "Render money!" This slogan can apply to a lot of politicians here in Belgium but we are not even at that stage. What we are asking here is just transparency on the wealth of politicians in order to know who represents us and whether he is getting richer during his political mandate. If we do politics, it's not to use ourselves, it's to serve. Many have confused both. In this sense, we have tabled an amendment to supplement this legislation, which is good so far but incomplete, because it does not include transparency. In this House, I hear the word transparency in everyone. Here I ask to translate it into a simple act: that political representatives at least declare their heritage and that it be transparent! May the citizens be able to consult these heritages and see if we are getting richer during his political mandate! Madam President, that is why I tabled this amendment. I hope that it will receive the majority or unanimity of votes, since everyone defends these values. I hope that there will be unanimity on this amendment so that it can be incorporated into the full text of the law. Then we will no longer need to do it again later and to come back with another text to change it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u64	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u65	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2297/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2297/5) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u66	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Delizée, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u68	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2625/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2625/3) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u70	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kristof Calvo, Chanelle Bonaventure, Nathalie Gilson, Nawal Farih, Patrick Dewael, Melissa Depraetere, Guillaume Defossé.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u72	In view of the large number of speakers, I refer to the written report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u73	Madam President, allow me first of all to address myself directly to the author of this legislative proposal, Mr Calvo. Mr Calvo, your Facebook messages tell me that you have been fighting for 15 years for what you are trying to achieve here today. At the start of the government, you were one of the promoters of political renewal, transparency and civic participation. We have seen little of that so far, but look, today there is a legislative proposal. We are, of course, also in favour of civic participation, transparency and bringing politics closer to the citizen. We have therefore studied the matter seriously, cooperated constructively in committee meetings and listened carefully to all the speakers. Of course, we have also consulted our constituents. Unfortunately, I have to tell you, Mr Calvo, that we cannot approve the bill. Our group, Jong-N-VA, the N-VA, continues to oppose the reduction in electoral age under 18, because we believe that this measure will bring little progress. I do not have to tell you that almost no European Member State will allow its nationals to vote from 16 years of age. This is only possible in Austria and Malta. Well, there are good reasons for that. I'll keep it general for now. Voting rights are, after all, linked to some legal majority. The adjustment of the age of majority from 21 to 18 years, which provoked a lot of discussions at the time, also had consequences in other areas. A criminal responsibility was attached to this, among other things. In other words, rights and duties are always linked. The proposal you are putting forward here only focuses on rights. We believe that the right to vote should be part of the package of adulthood. That is a package full of rights, but, as I have said, also of duties and individual responsibility, with all kinds of consequences, of criminal liability, the right to marry, to rent a house to participate in the democratic and political process. We believe that it is only from the age of 18 that we can fully participate in society. We do not therefore see, with all due respect for your efforts, Mr President, why Parliament is investing so much time in the dossier before us, which is actually a matter of fact, and you must admit that this is nothing more than a purely symbolic dossier. What are you going to do with it? If you put your ear to your ears, and not just your own supporters and young, green friends, you will not be able to deny that only a few minors are really awake from politics. Do you really think that the 16-year-olds have been disgraced because they are not allowed to participate in the European elections? There's no way they're gonna wake up. It's a far-from-their-bed show. It's nothing more than symbolic politics. Let young people be young people. Let them, of course, be interested in politics, let them participate in debates and debate with and about politics. However, these young people must explore the world, mature and prepare for adult life. This is not done by giving them the right to vote. After all, who is going to vote? You will be able to convince a few hundred young people to register in order to get involved in voting. One of your arguments is that we must give young people a voice. But who will represent the 16-18 year olds? Tell me. Answer that question. I think that will be very difficult. Do you know what's keeping the kids awake? They are awake from their future; for example, they are awake from the fact that the government will no longer be able to pay their pensions. According to recent studies, 6 out of 10 young people fear that they will not be retired after their careers. That's gonna keep young people awake. We adults, 18-year-olds and plus-18-year-olds, who were given the right to vote and to take responsibility, must take away these besognes from young people. In other words, the Vivaldi government should, instead of focusing on such a symbolic dossier, deal with dossiers that give real certainty to our young people on a prosperous future. That is our responsibility. We must show young people that we are paying attention to their needs. That is not happening under the government, and that is my great disappointment with the Vivaldi government. When it comes to issues of real political renewal, of which the coalition agreement resounds, none of that comes into the house. There is no necessary reform of pensions, there are no bold labour market reforms, there are no tax reforms, nothing happens. Work on that, instead of trying to score with this symbol file. In other words, let us really take young people seriously instead of giving them this gift for European elections, a level of policy where they will ultimately have nothing to say. Let us take young people seriously by addressing the major challenges for their future. Please do not limit yourself to pure symbolism. You cannot offer them more than a derailed budget and a billion invoice at the moment. After all, who is going to be allowed to pay that billion dollar bill? That's the same childhood that's worried about that. Instead of using empty symbolism, you should set an example to those young people by unitedly pursuing a constructive policy in the interests of young people. At present, Vivaldi does little more than distribute unbridled money and hypothesize the future of young people. In other words, give the young people time. The bill is well-intentioned but it is une fausse bonne idée. Colleagues, I therefore call for the legislative proposal not to be approved and for the N-VA to follow its example.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be able to defend this text today, which is of particular importance to me and to my political family, as it marks an additional opening to a wider and more inclusive democracy. Indeed, as with any measure which allows the electoral base to be enlarged, to increase the number of citizens invited to participate in a choice of society which concerns them and which involves them, we strongly and for many years have been defending the lowering of the right to vote to 16 years. This has been recalled by Kristof Calvo on the networks recently. Today, a first step will finally be taken in this direction, and we welcome it. Colleagues, three weeks ago, I was lucky enough to be able to accompany a last-year class visiting our Parliament. All the students were between the ages of sixteen and twenty, and none of them had already been able to vote. I went there with the text in mind that we are dealing with today. I was curious to hear their questions and reflections on politics, to be confronted with their objections and even, why not, with their reproaches. I didn't know if I was going to find myself facing young people who had no idea what they were doing there or some super-interested young people and the smallest details of Belgian politics. I actually got a mixture of the two. I had young people in front of me who knew the main lines, without showing any particular interest or motivation for politics and its stakes. Some – because the majority of the girls took the floor – have asked me quite lively questions about the obligation of a politician to be accountable to his constituents. Others asked me, in a more basic way, what was the difference between the left and the right. Still others did not ask any questions because they might not have wanted to be there. Finally, I was reassured. I was reassured because the young people I saw on that day, like the young people I have been able to meet in recent years, were actually in the image of the Belgian population: some were interested, others did not understand everything but were ready to learn, and others had nothing to do with it. Our role as women and politicians is therefore to provide an answer to each of these citizens, whether they are minors or not. When I hear some people tell me that young people are not interested in politics, I can only see that they are disconnected from part of the youth. After years of mobilizing for the climate, for homeless people or, today, for Ukrainian refugees, I wonder how young people still have to prove that they know that they have a role to play in society and that they are ready to do so. Is that the case of all youth? No, certainly not. Is that the case of the entire population? No, certainly not. Today, we will show young people that we have confidence in them and allow those who wish to do so to participate in the European elections. Beyond the federal government's budget to inform and educate young people about this new right, our role as political personnel is to ensure that they are as numerous as possible to register for and participate in these elections, as we must fight to bring abstainers to the polls today. For this, we will need everyone, especially federated entities of course, through their youth and teaching skills, but also from all of us. As parliamentarians, we must give ourselves a mission, and I agree with you, Mr. Van der Donckt. We must give ourselves the task of going to the contact of young people in schools, in associations, in young people's houses. We must invite them to visit parliaments, to understand the functioning of democracy. We must take every opportunity to explain to them that they can give their opinion and that their opinion counts. It is a citizen's duty that we parliamentarians have. When political men and women object to me that young people are not interested in politics, I always think that they may not have started. The world would be very different if policies were to focus on young people and their future, if policies were to look beyond the end of a mandate. The right to vote at the age of 16 is perhaps an opportunity for the political world to really listen to the solutions proposed by young people. A friend, who has recently been a retired professor, explained to me last night that she had one day taken her class to a pedestrian site as part of a course in philosophy and citizenship. To these young children, it did not take ten minutes to see that nothing had been planned for the children in this project, to protest against it and to propose adjustments. Young people are a creative pool. We must draw inspiration and give them the floor. I also hear some people tell me that young people are too influential and too naive. Sometimes I even heard it from young people. The issue of social networks and fake news is obviously highlighted. I asked myself that question. Then I came across an American study that showed that young people probably have more knowledge of social media codes, and that it is actually the older people who are likely to share fake news, up to seven times more for those over 65 than for those 18-29 years old. That puts this idea in perspective. I was also told that young people would vote as their friends or as the latest fashion influencer. I cannot help but think of the past, when in 1945 in France, in 1948 at home, the legislator finally gave in to the pressure of feminist movements and the right to vote was finally obtained by women. At the time, some opponents assured that women would vote either as their husbands or as their parish priest. Today, who would dare say that again? Who would ask that women be removed from their voting rights? I hope not. So, of course, the European scale is not the most affordable a priori. The experts and young people we auditioned are unanimous about this – and that is true. This level of power seems distant and disconnected for a large part of the population. Yet it is the heart of enormous stakes: the climate, of course, geopolitics, of course – and we are thinking about the situation in Ukraine – competition rules, monetary policy, agriculture, energy, and so on. It's a crucial place of power. It is up to us, as well as to the media and teachers, to manage to explain it with pedagogy. However, it is clear that this does not make other levels of power less essential. We hope that the movement will do a lot of oil, from the communal level to the federal level, for greater coherence and understanding for all. Fifteen days ago, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for the right to vote to be lowered at the age of 16 in the European elections for all Member States. It is also a recommendation of the Conference on the future of the European Union. By voting on this text today, we will be the first country to respond favourably to this request, if one obviously excludes the two states – or even three, if one counts Greece, where the right to vote is at the age of 17 – where this is already the case. Finally, I would like to conclude with this remark. The crisis that we have just been through has been challenging for everyone, but health measures have proved to be a calvary for young people. Their psychological and social effects remain devastating, while they were less affected by covid than their elders. Young people have shown solidarity and responsibility. We owe them a debt. Today, many of them are angry and anxious about their future. I would not like it to be considered that lowering the right to vote to sixteen years is a response to this phenomenon. No, certainly not. This is a positive element, but we must first and foremost respond to their difficulties in practice. You said it, Mr Van der Donckt, but one obviously does not prevent the other. And we do! Similarly, democracy is not just about participating once every five years in an election. It must be everyday, permanent. We need to make it live and diversify. That is why, alongside the right to vote, we need to develop participatory tools that allow everyone to become familiar with debate, positioning and decision-making. These tools must be accessible at an early stage, such as joint committees in the Brussels Parliament, which are open to citizens at the age of 16, for example. Indeed, we must always do more in favour of political renewal. Colleagues, you will have understood that we will support this text with strength, conviction and enthusiasm. And we invite you to do the same today. I also encourage you to make this vote a commitment to explain, raise awareness and encourage young people to take their place in our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, through this text of which I am a co-author, our Parliament is about to grant young people over 16 years of age the right to vote in elections to the European Parliament. We will be the third Member State to implement this European Parliament recommendation in a broader debate on the European project. A teacher of training convinced of the positive impact of this proposal and particularly attached to education and citizenship, like Mr. Defossé, I chose to start a tour of the schools in my district in order to present, exchange and debate our bill with the first concerned, young people between the ages of 16 and 18. I chose to start my meetings in my former high school, the Royal Thil Lorrain Athena, this May 9, 2022, symbolic date since it was Europe Day. It is important to know that this school is an EPAS school, i.e. an ambassador school of the European Parliament. I knew that I would face young people who were already informed and curious about issues related to Europe and democracy. And yet I was able to listen to Emlie, who is in favour of our proposal but who shares her fears because she finds that young people have little interest in politics and she is aware that voting is a great power. She wants us to talk more about it in schools, in all schools and not just hers. For Ricardo, preparation for this new right should be included in the curriculum and included in the history-geography course. Audrey, on the other hand, has the age to vote but explained to me that she feels that she does not get away with the political issues that lead to the major decisions. Without having access to all the information she will need to vote in her soul and conscience, she is afraid of being influenced by ideas that are not really hers. Younes, on the other hand, is aware that some parties spend exorbitant sums on communication on social networks to manipulate opinion and, even though he believes he is in the middle of building his critical mind, his fear is that social networks will become a weapon of manipulation of young people. He asks only to learn how to master these tools that will allow him not to fall into the traps of this manipulation and that of extreme ideas. This first meeting ended for me with a "yes but" on the part of the main concerned who deserve to be further deepened with them. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you, too, to meet our young people because they have a lot to say about this proposal and they are always happy to discuss it. I turn to the text, which contains many strengths and weaknesses. Its strength is that this openness is an opportunity to enable young people to express their views on European issues which cover a broad spectrum of subjects of particular interest to them and of which they are not always necessarily aware of the political dimension. It is therefore a clear signal of confidence that is sent to them today so that they can make their voice heard in the European debate. We heard from the experts and the youth spokespersons. Hearings have enriched the debate and demonstrated the extent to which, in order to make this right fully effective, it needs to be accompanied by mechanisms for education in citizenship and politics. I am even more convinced of this today after my meeting last week. Measures must be put in place, in conjunction, in particular with the federated entities, to educate as much as possible about the importance of democracy so that this new right for young people can be fully effective for each of them. We must work to invest in information and citizenship campaigns so that all young people can benefit from the information they need to make their voices heard, that every young person has the keys to knowingly vote, that every young person goes to the commune and wants to go to vote, that everyone knows that this right is powerful and that they must take full advantage of it. I now turn to the main weakness of this text, in my view, that the involvement of young people in political life should not call into question the obligation to vote, because voting is for us a cement of our democracy. I do not hide from you that for my group as a whole, and in my view, it is an essential aspect of the Belgian electoral system. This obligation is all the more important when looking at neighbouring democracies where this obligation does not exist. The sad observation of a record score of the far right coupled with a high rate of abstention only strengthens me in this conviction. It is therefore essential that we continue to work on mechanisms of education for democracy in order to strive for equality in political participation. In conclusion, the European Union is an area of freedom and respect for fundamental rights. The involvement of young people makes sense. If the extension of voting rights to 16 is a first step, we know that the challenge remains immense. We must continue to work for the political inclusion of all young people so that they can participate in the construction of society, Europe and the world of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that my party scores very well among young people, we are not in favour of voting rights from 16 years of age, because voting rights are part of a package of rights and obligations. We are not alone in that opinion, because I have just heard Mr Van der Donkt explain something in the same way. Those rights and duties are part of the age of majority. That is indeed always arbitrary and it is now fixed at eighteen years. That may be arbitrary, but it is certainly not lightly laid down at eighteen years. That has been well thought out. At the time, the age limit was raised from 21 years to 18 years. To date, it has been felt that a person from that age, i.e. from 18, should bear the consequences of legal acts which he or she makes. From then on, he or she will be legally liable. From then on there are rights and obligations which are inextricably linked to us. We certainly do not think it wise to separate them, especially if we want to teach young people the importance of responsibility. I do not understand some parties that sometimes consider minors adults and sometimes do not. I see parties like Green and PVDA, who are in favour of today's proposal and want to grant minors rights such as adults, in this case voting rights, but who do not want to try underage criminals who commit serious crimes as adults. I also see CD&V, which at the end of March 2022 proposed extending parental leave to 18 years. On the one hand, teenagers of 16 years old are old enough for them to vote, but on the other hand, mommy and daddy have to hold hands until 18 years old. Colleagues, an additional reason why we are not in favour of this proposal is that it creates inequalities. There is inequality between the 16-year-olds and the 17-year-olds who have the right to vote and the 18-year-olds who have the right to vote. There is also inequality between the different elections, namely the European elections for which they will be able to vote and all other levels of government, from local to sub-state and federal, for which 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds cannot vote. However, these are levels that are closer to them. Moreover, those 16- and 17-year-olds do not stand for the right to vote at all. You should take a look at some surveys, surveys and polls, even polls carried out by the Flemish Youth Council who came here in the hearings for voting rights from 16 years old. I found these hearings interesting. The representatives of the Flemish Youth Council also referred to a study by the KU Leuven on the voting behaviour of young people, which shows that the young people vote correctly, correctly in the sense that their vote corresponds to a real choice of party and a true ideological preference. I don't dispute that at all. I am convinced that many 16- and 17-year-olds can make an informed political choice. It's not for nothing that my party in that age group scores well, but that's not the point. The point is that it has no effect at all on a political commitment. This is evident from research conducted by the KU Leuven. I hear that as an argument from the proponents of the proposal: to involve young people, to warm up young people, to stimulate political interest among young people. A study carried out by Ghent University in 2014 and 2015 by the group most in need of an increase in political interest, the group that was not or hardly politically interested beforehand, shows that lowering the age limit for that vote does not have a positive but negative effect. The study concluded: "In short, the hypothesis that youth voting rights generate an increase in political interest cannot be clearly confirmed." They've compared several other studies in that study. In 2016, Ghent University conducted a similar study, with similar conclusions. I quote from the summary on page 2: "Reducing the voting age is often proposed as a possible solution to the perceived lack of political interest of young people. However, there is scientific uncertainty on this point. Studies suggesting that there is a positive link between the reduction in voting age and the political interest of young people are directly opposed to those that demonstrate the absence of the impact of a reduction in electoral age. Our research results from about four hundred 16- and 17-year-old Flemish secondary students from the directions aso, tso and bso show that a reduction in electoral age does not only lead to an increase in political interest in each of the directions examined." The most important conclusion from the study is that the reduction in voting age has a positive impact on those who are already above average politically interested. For young people not or below average, the effect is less and the granting of voting rights often leads to an increase in political disinterest. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is not the right instrument to involve young people more in politics, this proposal by the Vivaldi parties is mainly hypocritical. I understand that these successive polls cause some concern and that there are parties that are very concerned and are trying to recruit a new electorate in all sorts of ways in their struggle for survival. Vooruit believes that young people score because the president comes in a rabbit costume doing retards on television. We have a much higher opinion of the young. It's those vivaldi parties of all kinds that will be saddled with huge invoices in the next generations. It is precisely those vivaldi parties that have no difficulty at all in not taking into account election results. If one wants to restore confidence in politics, one does not do so by giving 16- and 17-year-olds the opportunity to vote for some level of government. This is done primarily by taking account of votes cast by voters, by at least doing what was promised before the elections after the elections. Voting rights for 16- and 17-year-olds are as inefficient as the ongoing citizen survey to listen to the opinion of young people. We really want to listen to the young people. I would have preferred more work to be done on direct democracy, on referenda. Colleagues, if you really want to do something for young people, make sure, for example, that mass migration does not alienate them in their own neighborhood, make sure they can go out safely, make sure that the young girls can still walk short-skirted on the street without intimidation, then make sure that they will ever get a decent pension, then make sure they can buy another affordable home. This seems to me to be a priority, rather than the symbolic proposals you are trying to make today appear to be doing something for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, together with our partners in Vivaldi, we have wanted to take a new step towards strengthening democracy, in order to give citizens the right to vote from 16 years for the European Parliament elections. This is an important step, a historic moment when we reaffirm fundamental values for us liberals: the affirmation of our political and social model, namely a liberal democracy that wants to be strong and creative, and the affirmation, in these troubled times, of the European project. After Austria, Malta and Greece, Belgium will thus become the fourth country in the European Union to take the step of granting the electoral majority, by registration, for elections to the European Parliament for young people from the age of 16. This is an important moment. As a liberal group, our wish is to involve our citizens, our youth directly in the management of their country and in the knowledge of European issues. In this regard, a proactive approach by these young people is essential and an important preliminary. It is gratifying to note that our bill fits perfectly within this framework, as young people will have to register with their communes in order to become voters. It is an enlightened way to put the wishes, hopes, concerns and priorities of our youth directly at the centre of the democratic debate. It is also a great opportunity for our young people to feed the debate and to recall that they are an integral part of and shape our liberal democracy and this European project. To offer them the choice to express their voice, if they so wish, was a necessity. In this respect, it must be said that the European Union is the level of power that produces the most legislative standards, with directives that must be transposed into the legal order of our country. These directives are being negotiated upstream at European level. They are the subject of discussions in the European Parliament. It is therefore essential that young people take an interest, first of all, in this level of power. The bill under consideration is therefore a concrete initiative for our young people to gradually enter this world of voters and into this world of citizenship. Let us give Caesar what belongs to Caesar: this bill was pushed by our Deputy Prime Minister, Sophie Wilmès, and by the Minister of the Interior, Annelies Verlinden. Today, we look forward to being able to support this text. The exercise of this new right should, of course, be assessed and attention paid to the initiatives that can be taken to raise awareness among young people of the possibility offered to them. In this context, partnerships with youth organisations and the community level, which is closest to citizens, will be very important. This ambition to make young people aware of politics must certainly be that of all the democratic parties in our country so that this ability to register as a voter at the age of 16 in the European elections is used in the most efficient way possible for the strengthening of our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u78	Madam President, I would like to wait until the main French-speaking government parties have spoken. I have a question out of interest. I am not a fan of a reduced age before the elections, but I am a fan of piloting policy to test a number of things, ideally at a lower level, to see what one can learn from them and whether it is interesting, a good idea or a less good idea. I note that all the French-speaking parties, today and in committee, are huge supporters of the reduction in electoral age. I find that remarkable. Should this debate take place in the Flemish Parliament, there would be no majority for this. That majority is there today, especially because the French-speaking parties support the proposal and the Green Group is, of course, strongly in favour of it. You said, Mrs Gilson, that it is a wonderful proposal that absolutely must be implemented, but that there is a bemol. You regret that the proposal concerns the European elections and that it would be better implemented for local elections. It is a coincidence that you three are also in another government, the Walloon Government, which, by the way, has constitutional autonomy and which could perfectly reduce the electoral age to 16 years before the local elections in Wallonia. That would be interesting if you did, because then we can see if that works and what the benefits and disadvantages are. You do not, however. Moreover, the question has recently been explicitly asked to the relevant Walloon minister, who replied that this is not in the coalition agreement. He also said: "In Wallonia, priority is not given to this reform." So you don't want to do that in Wallonia. Hence my question. You're all so much a fan of it here, you're in the government with which you can do it perfectly, and you're saying that it's actually ideal for the local level, why don't you do it for the local level? Why do you demand a reform that is not supported in Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u79	Madam President, I would like to respond to the first part of Mr Loones' speech. Mr Loones, the second part of your speech was even more explicit than what Mr Gilson said, but I do not want to miss the first part of your speech. In your opinion, it is clear from the outset that this debate in the Flemish Parliament does not produce a majority, but I am not convinced of that. It is true that the government agreement of the Vivaldi parties includes a reduction in the age of voting rights for the European Parliament. There is no mention of this in the Flemish coalition agreement. Such things are usually cleared out through a coalition agreement. Secondly, a coalition agreement may be updated, but in principle such things are agreed in the coalition agreement. There's nothing about it in the Flemish coalition agreement. You conclude from this that there is no majority for this measure in the Flemish Parliament in a real debate with a vote. I'm not convinced of that. You may think that you and Mrs Pas, N-VA and Flemish Interest have recently had a majority in the Flemish Parliament. The last time I verified that, it turned out that wasn't the case. You are a regular sinner, Mr Loones. You read from your own party programme or from Mrs Pas's programme and you conclude that there is no majority in Flanders for that. I'm sorry, you're not the spokesperson for Flanders. Your parties together do not represent a majority in the Flemish Parliament. I will even go one step further by looking at the positions taken by the Flemish parties on voting rights from 16 years on, for example, for the local level. If you vote freely in the Flemish Parliament, you will lose that vote. In the meantime, I have already heard colleagues from CD&V argue in favour of it, because Mr Orry Van de Wauwer is a leader in the Flemish Parliament. Without that annoying group discipline in the Flemish Parliament, he went for it in full. Mr Willem-Frederik Schiltz, who used to be a Member of Parliament, is also a leader of voting rights from 16 years on at local level. The positions of Vooruit, PVDA and Green are also known. When you vote on it in the Flemish Parliament, you are there, because you have no majority. You only have an N-VA veto in the government negotiations. Maintaining group discipline ensures that the measure is not implemented. You say that, but I have to correct that. That is fundamental to me, not only because I am a great advocate of voting at 16 years at local level, but also because I am allergic to the statement that if the N-VA and the Flemish Interest do not want something, Flanders does not want it. For the moment, you do not have a majority and we will do everything we can to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u80	Madam President, I would like to reply because Mr Loones quoted me directly. I spoke about the communal level of youth organizations in raising awareness of young people in order to have this approach to be interested in politics and to register to become voters. The MR is not in favour of mandatory voting for 16-year-olds. So there is this process of having to register, for us it is important. We believe that it is the European level that is most likely to arouse young people's interest in politics, since it concerns major issues which young people are very interested in, in any case those with whom I have contacts. For us, we need both this awareness and this opportunity to become an elector. Finally, it is also a means for youth organisations and for the community level - which is closest to the citizen and which can more easily organise awareness-raising activities - to reach these young people so that they are interested in politics and register to become voters.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon I received a large group of 55 pupils from the fifth year of study in Parliament. They immediately asked me what age they would be entitled to vote. Given their young age, this shows how interested they are to be able to determine the policy. I am surprised that you are reacting so strongly to this, but I do believe that 16- and 17-year-olds are able to think rationally about the direction in which the policy should be directed. I see you're smiling, but I think you also have grandchildren, which you should put a little more faith in. I trust the young people in that respect. It is also our task as politicians to continue to involve young people in our policies. We have to convince them, and we can do that not only by participating in a football match or by a blitz visit to a party, but by engaging them effectively and that happens in the polling room. I am satisfied with what we are doing today and for the CD&V group it does not even go far enough. Of course we would like to involve 16- and 17-year-olds in local, regional, community and national elections. They have the right to participate in the political business. The young people have found that they are making their voices sound louder and louder on social issues. Not so long ago, there were the climate marches. During the Corona Times, they regularly discussed the digitisation of education. They are very concerned about their mental health and they want to make their voice heard in the discussion about this. We must open the gates to ensure that they are heard and that they can also participate where necessary. I would like to emphasise that the CD&V Group is very pleased with this proposal and will fully support it. As a young Member of Parliament, I welcome the progress, but as far as our group is concerned, the work is certainly not finished. We look forward to using this as an inspiration for sequels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u82	Certain people are ripe enough when they are 16, 15 or maybe even 12 years old. There's a slight change in age around here. By the way, children from fifth grade are, I think, 10 years old. In any case, if the electoral system is to be contested, for example, if the voting obligation is introduced or abolished, as in Flanders for the municipal elections, it always has a purpose. With the abolition of electoral voting, one would set a path in the basket of the extremes. You mentioned the climate marches. The bad character in me tells me that we can use the braces that go along in the climate marches to increase our votes. Now, from the OVDS climate survey, the teacher organisation for the Call for a Democratic School, Green well-known, among 3,259 students aged 17 and 18 who are allowed to vote, only 13% knew of the climate warming mechanism, 9 out of 10 were climate illiterate, 10% believed that coal is a renewable energy source and 6 out of 10 believed that nuclear power plants emit large amounts of CO2. So there's work to be done. You shouldn't believe that the 16 or 17-year-olds who protest on the streets, because then they get off, are ideologically determined to vote. Last week, a bill was discussed here that meant that young people are not smart enough to interpret gambling advertising. They're too dumb for that. They can't marry under 18. Then Mom and Dad have to give permission. The kids are too stupid. It is forbidden to offer, sell or give spirits to a min-18-year-old. They're too dumb for that. They can't make the distinction. They can't drink. They can't go into the store and buy a bottle. Under the 2019 law, min-18-year-olds are not allowed to buy cigarettes or tobacco. They may vote for the European Parliament, but they are too stupid to choose the cigarette or not. If you are under 18 years of age, you should not drive. Then what is one old enough for? We can vote for the European Parliament from 16 years on, we can choose who makes the laws, but we are too stupid and too small, because we are not yet 18 years old, and we cannot decide otherwise. Stop this hypocrisy where one considers them ripe and smart enough, but at the same time forbids them from doing anything. Raise min-18-year-olds; consider them mature and stop banning anything. There's a lot of work. I believe that the text of the law was designed in the light of the new jeunism. There's a new leader somewhere, or a new white rabbit. You hope that the climate marches of boys aged 17 and 18 will pay for you. But look further than your nose is long. Look at the stats. If you want to treat someone as an adult from the age of 16, do it completely or don't do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u83	I had Mrs Farih finish her speech before I responded. She insists that CD&V, unlike the opponents of the present bill, is convinced that 16- and 17-year-olds can cast an informed vote. You didn't listen, Mrs Farih. I have just said that I am also convinced that they can. I have already seen tweets by Green that we would be against the participation of young people and other quatsch. The point is that voting is not the right way to actively involve young people in policy. You can make the comparison with a group of 10-year-olds coming to visit Parliament. I hope, by the way, that it is not the same group as I have heard roaring through the corridors, because then I must take the louder of the youth literally. That did not show much political interest, so I hope for you that it was a different group than this afternoon. All madness on a stick, you didn't think the proposal went far enough, but it's not the 10-year-old kids you should ask for political insights from. My question is how you will actively involve young people. It will not work in the proposed way. The investigations I have just mentioned - and I hope you have listened to them - have shown this too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u84	However, I would like to make some corrections. When I say that the proposal does not go far enough, I am talking about other elections. For us, the scope of the proposal should not be limited to the European elections, but also to the Flemish, local and federal elections. I have the impression you like to deform my words. As for the young people who may be walking a little louder down the halls, I would like to say that they are young people. If we put them in the forgotten corner more often, they'll get louder and louder. So I would like to ask for a little respect for the young people who want to think about our society instead of excluding them further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u85	Madam President, I am also in favour of voting at 16 years of age, in particular to give young people an opportunity to reflect and give political significance to their actions. We will support this proposal. Nevertheless, we have two criticisms of this text. On the one hand, it does not go far enough because it is limited to the European elections and, on the other hand, there is the fact that we have to register, which is a hindrance. These criticisms that I make come to a more general situation. It was said here that young people would not be interested in politics. The problem is not that young people are not interested in politics; they are not interested in politicians. They are interested in politics and do political acts. They're campaigning in the field. The climate movement that lasted for weeks was cited with thoughtful, thorough messages and analysis. Adults have learned things from this climate movement. As a result, adults woke up and realized that there was a climate problem. Young people have played a role in society as an awakener of conscience on the climate issue. They also did so in the fight against racism. They mobilize in these battles in a thoughtful, thorough and reasoned manner. They know what they're talking about. So the problem is not that young people are not interested in politics. They're interested in politics. They want to act. They want to play their role as social actors but they are not interested in the political world, which is completely disconnected from people's interests. We know that. The evidence is the Prime Minister's answer earlier that people have to stop complaining about fuel prices because it's more expensive elsewhere. He lives in another world! It's the same for young people. The political world is completely disconnected from young people. We discussed with them and asked the various youth organisations for their views on this proposal. Some say it's good to have the right to vote but wonder if it's useful because every time you vote, there's first of all the electoral promises. Then come the papotes between parties and the establishment of a majority on a government agreement and, finally, we do something completely different than what was said during the election campaigns. That's how they live it! I am not going to take the example of the 67-year-old pension, which was not included in any electoral programme, but which was voted in this Parliament. It is an example among others and it is what keeps young people away from the world of politicians - not politics; it is not the same! Politics is about looking at social issues and trying to answer them, it's about fighting to improve the world in which we live. And young people do it every day. They therefore have no lesson to learn from this Parliament in this respect, because they are fighting on the ground. On the other hand, they are right not to consider the political world, since it does not consider it. That's the problem! If the political world does not change its way of doing politics and entering into major agreements between parties for partisan interests to the detriment of those of the population, if that does not change, you will certainly lower the vote at the age of 14, the situation will not change. Even today, adults who have the right to vote no longer believe in it, because their vote is not enforced. The train continues, the same coalitions remain in place. When a party changes, one remains in the same line, the same ideology and the same policy that has been applied for 30 or 40 years. That's the problem! Yes, to offer 16-year-olds an opportunity to express their political opinion through a vote goes in the right direction, but the main problem is that democracy is reduced to a single vote. In other words, they would vote every five years, during which their opinion would not be sought. Even the organisation of a citizen consultation platform is not binding. In other words, it would be like a box of ideas in which we would come, depending on what suits us. No, it's not politics. Young people want actions and commitments. They want elected officials to respect their agenda and principles. However, it does not exist in the political world. As long as nothing changes, young people and citizens in general should not be blamed for not being interested in politics. First of all, we have to question ourselves here. Do you, here, do the work necessary to bring citizens closer to politics? We're very far from it. In any case, this Parliament, this House, is completely disconnected from the reality of people. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we will support this proposal. But I would remind you that if we believe that young people are able to make political decisions for European elections, there is no reason why this should be limited to these elections. This must be extended to national and local elections. Moreover, why add a brake to all the barriers that exist in society - that of registration? Why? How is this justified? We don't even know how to register. The details of such registration are not defined. Will it be online? Will it be necessary to go to the commune? In which case, since the municipality is open during the course hours, at what time? Will the communal services be opened at night and on weekends so that they can register? All these elements must be taken into account. I would remind you that there is also a brake, when it would be more effective to remove this obstacle from registration, and also to extend the vote to national elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have long been in favour of voting rights at 16 years. Mr Calvo, you were 15 years old when we took that view. That was in 2002. For us, it can go even further than the elections of the European Parliament alone. This also shows the proposals that we have already put forward in previous legislatures. It is true that we in Parliament do not have the necessary two-thirds majority to achieve this before other elections, but the Open VLD is confident that this measure will lead the way for the other elections and will prove its added value for both young people and society. We are certainly taking an important step today. The right to vote at 16 years gives us the opportunity to involve young people more actively in the functioning of our democracy. We therefore give responsibility to those young people who wish to do so, and it is that responsibility that is the oh so important right to vote which is a fundamental factor that enables them to fully take up and experience citizenship. We must encourage citizenship from an early age, because we all reap the benefits of it. We are therefore ensuring that young people are able to reflect not only on the important issues we face, but also on their participation in decision-making. After all, many of the answers we formulate to these questions also determine the future of our young people and it is logical that we should allow them to vote. We are therefore very pleased that our request to introduce voting rights at 16 years is being realized in Belgium for the first time today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u87	Thank you, Madam President. I will reply briefly to what Mr Dedecker said. He has mentioned some very interesting figures. I would not deny it, quite the contrary. I think you're right to mention those figures. Many young people today are not very interested in politics as they know and see on TV. If they were to look at Villa Politica and see what's been said here this afternoon, I can imagine that they're not super interested or overflowing with enthusiasm for what happens here sometimes. That makes sense, too. However, there is a great deal of commitment among young people to do things. They may not always see this as politics, but often it is about societal challenges and societal issues. That is, in fact, political, without anyone realizing it. Back to the numbers. You spoke about 10 % that was busy with important themes. When I remember my time in fifth or sixth grade, which was a little less long ago for me than for you, I was very interested in topicality and politics. I admit that maybe there were only three of us in a class of 20, which is not much. On the other hand, I am convinced that just the secondary school environment is the perfect setting to ensure that young people are well informed. Once they're off the school banks, they have to look up their own information through social media and the press. We know that today it is not so obvious to make another analysis of this. In secondary school, however, they can get very informed courses or courses about the election, about campaigns, about party views. I was at a debate in Gistel yesterday where they had done the same. Students were allowed to ask questions to all political parties. Had I been there last week, at least five young people would have asked questions out of interest. This week, after being informed on the school banks for a week about the different views and the major societal challenges, almost all pupils from those classes asked a question. They were working on that. They were informed and were very well aware of the views of the various parties, even to the extent that they could say what someone said, was not in line with the party's position. The setting of high school is therefore very useful, to inform students about elections. It is also for this reason that we are in favour of voting rights from the age of 16, but equally for the same voting rights for other elections. It has already been pointed out that it is a first step for many parties. It is for us, too. However, the important thing to stress is the following. After all, a number of parties that are not very enthusiastic have said so. I agree with them on this point too. This must not be a way of getting rid of it and of thinking that we will reduce the gap between politics and young people by allowing them to vote from the age of 16. Of course it isn't. There will still be a lot of work for each of us to make sure that we are available to young people, to explain, to be accessible, to work easily, to talk to them and to raise awareness. Sensitising this must be done not only by us, but also by youth organisations. I absolutely agree with that criticism. However, that should not prevent us from taking a step forward here today, a first step as far as we are concerned. That message was also given very clearly at the hearing, both by us, Parliament and by all youth organisations. We came to the same conclusion. These organisations too will have a very important role to play in raising awareness of young people, just as we and all the different political parties that will have a role to play.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this text concerns a large number of young people. Potentially 270 000 young people aged 16 and 17, who have Belgian nationality or the nationality of a Member State of the European Union and who reside in Belgium, are concerned. We are in favour of extending the right to vote to young people aged 16 and 17 for the European elections. That is a good thing and it must be welcomed. A significant factor is that, in reality, our young people are showing much earlier than in the past an interest in major societal issues, and that is so much better. My CD&V colleague recalled their commitment to the climate marches, through which they wanted to move the lines faster and stronger. This is one example among so many others. That being said, this right should not be just a right that is given for the pleasure of giving a right to vote. There is a duty of responsibility for the policies that we are, but also a duty of pedagogy. Let us begin with the responsibility of policies for future generations. This extension of the right to vote is all the more justified because there is a lack of consideration of the interests of young people and future generations in decision-making. Let's say a truth speech. Successive governments have, in recent years, favoured current expenditure over necessary investment. We have borrowed from future generations our way of life on an economic, social and environmental level. The increase in public deficits, debt, the reality of jobs in need, the hidden debt of pensions, the under-investment in research, in education, in infrastructure, in decarbonised energy, in energy saving, in the preservation of biodiversity are all examples – unfortunately. It has to change. By this right to vote, young people are also able to remind us and to compel us to make decisions not only in the short term but also, for them and for all future generations, in the long term. The duty of political responsibility is accompanied by the duty of pedagogy. Again, this is not a vote for the pleasure of giving them the right to vote. It's about explaining the policies. It is true that it is somewhat paradoxical in this perspective to start by granting the right to vote for the elections of the European Parliament, which is undoubtedly one of the places, with the European Commission, where the rights of future generations are best taken into account, since it is one of the political institutions which has the most tendency to favour the long term in the short term, to favour the long term over current expenditure or the fight against global warming or to preserve our environment. It will therefore be a real duty of pedagogy which will have to differ from the attitude of the politicians who, as we all too often see when a not very sexy decision is taken on the political level, say: "It is not us, it is the fault of Europe." Conversely, when it comes to a sexy decision taken by Europe, the policies of each country, so in our own country too, tend to say: "It is thanks to us that this decision has been made." If we grant a right to vote to our young people aged 16 and 17 at European level, it will be necessary to be consistent and to have this duty of pedagogy on European added value and on decisions, including sexy, taken at European level and then declined in each country. In addition, I have a question about the choice made by the various authors of this bill on the non-compulsory nature of the vote of these 16- and 17-year-olds. In this respect, it is questionable whether the choice of the different parties which are the authors of this text was to set foot in the door to begin dismantling the mandatory nature of the vote. This is a question that I am asking you, ladies and gentlemen, about which we have had little or no explanation this afternoon. Beyond this concern that I wanted to express, you will understand, we will enthusiastically support this extension of the right to vote to young people, with the hope that it will affect our governance and our political choices and with the hope that we will commit not only in the short term, but also in the long term and for future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the authors of the text under consideration. Personally, I have always been deeply pro-European because of my personal history, but also because of the history and historical struggles that have been carried out by my party. More than ever, I am convinced that the European Union is the answer to the challenges of our time, whether it is the rise of populism, global warming, wars or violations of our fundamental rights. What is more normal, therefore, than to allow young people to express themselves on these issues by deciding on the measures proposed by the different parties to respond both well and poorly to these different challenges. This debate is not from yesterday. It all started in 1997 when the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution in favour of lowering the age for voting in certain elections to 16 years. The European Youth Forum, which brings together European youth organisations, then called for a lowering of the voting age across Europe. The result was resolutions adopted by the European Parliament or the Congress of Local Authorities of the Council of Europe in 2015. At the time, the idea was to build on what already existed in the Netherlands for the general elections. Today, this is the case in Austria, in a majority of the German Länder, but also in Malta for all elections. In Belgium, as we know, we are far from it, since the voting age is set at 18 years, with the notable exception of the communal popular consultations which are open to citizens when they are 16 years of age. It can also be seen that in the Walloon Parliament or the Brussels Parliament, it is also possible for young people at least 16 years of age to participate in advisory committees between parliamentarians and citizens drawn by lot. It is clear, therefore, that in recent years the lines are moving to lower the voting age, with a view to strengthening citizen participation in democracy, which my party always supports and supports. My party has also always supported the consideration of the views of young people in all decisions affecting them, in accordance with the provisions of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, including, therefore, a possible lowering of the voting age. However, it must be noted that in 2015 the Youth Council did this exercise. He surveyed nearly 1,046 young people aged 16 to 21, and it was found that eight out of ten youths were against it. The arguments put forward at the time against this lowering of the voting age to 16 were as follows: lack of maturity, the influence of young people at 16 years of age, lack of knowledge or lack of interest in public affairs. I wanted to quote Jérôme Lechien, who at the time was president of the Conseil de la jeunesse francophone, and who said: "Young people do not feel ready because they are not sufficiently informed. This revives the debate on citizenship courses, which should be able to correct the shooting. These courses must not only improve living together, but also explain how democracy works. If we work citizenship in this sense, then one day we could switch to yes." Surprisingly, the position of his Dutch-speaking counterpart was quite different – at the time, at least – namely that "research shows that, on average, 16-year-olds are perfectly capable of making complex choices, between advantages and disadvantages, in situations that do not involve compelling recourse to control of impulsivity, such as forming an opinion on political issues, and thus voting". While the responses of young Francophones and young Dutch-speaking people seem different, even though it has been inappropriate to generalize – given the opinion that would have been expressed by young N-VAs – the question remains the same: are young people now sufficiently mature and informed at 16 years of age to vote with full knowledge? It is this question that I wish to address today to the authors of this bill. Are you convinced that today all 16-year-olds are armed enough to understand our democracy and make their own choices in a free and informed manner? Both the health crisis, the refugee crisis and global warming have shown us that young people can be engaged, that they have a say and that they want to say so, as much as this health crisis has had a magnifying effect on inequalities in education, on the difficulty many young people have in properly informing themselves through objective information channels. Colleagues Defosse or Bonaventure said so. So many young people are interested in politics, so many others are not at all. They are even afraid, for some, of being influenced by their peers, by their idols or even by populist or extremist parties. These two lessons must guide our vote today because they seem to me to be complementary. Hence my second question to the authors of the text: can you guarantee that your parties will accompany in all competent levels of power this lowering of the electoral age of all the necessary mechanisms to educate and sensitize young people to politics, to generalize citizenship courses to all young people in all schools? In October 2020, Céline Braconnier, professor and director of Sciences Po in Saint-Germain-en-Laye, insisted on the need for young people "to better decrypt political issues". They are in demand of accompaniment by the school in the understanding of political life. The French framework is, of course, different, since voting is not compulsory there, although we know that voting today is not compulsory. Nevertheless, the development of a critical mindset at school is just as essential for understanding political reality, but also for reconciling them with their elected officials, rather than pointing their finger at them, as the PTB representative did. It is a matter of reconciling them with the institutions, including the European bodies which seem to them so remote, so abstract and so disconnected, despite the essential role that the European Union plays in the future of our youth, as I said in the introduction. That is why my group will support this bill - but on a double condition. First of all, this lowering of the voting age must be accompanied by raising awareness among all young people in all schools. Moreover, I hear unanimity on this matter - and I really dare believe it. Why, however, have we not yet done so? Secondly, aiming only at the European elections is not justified by the difficulty of amending the Constitution in order to target other elections or by a desire to perceive the European Parliament once again, unfortunately, as a garage road or a crash-test prior to possible retro-pedaling if the expected effects do not occur. It would, moreover, perhaps have been necessary to start with the closest level of power, where decisions have an immediate impact on our daily lives, especially on the lives of young people. Finally, I must - as I have not had the opportunity to do before - respond to the comments made by Mr Dedecker or by the representative of Vlaams Belang, who accuse the authors of this text of hypocrisy, or even of gambling, on the grounds that gambling or smoking would be prohibited for young people, but not the right to vote. Forgive me, but this has absolutely nothing to do with it! That's why I think your trial of intent is unfair. On the one hand, you have measures to protect the health of young people; on the other, you have a provision to grant them a right. What is this right? It is that of electing individuals who adopt measures that directly affect them. Does that sound so shocking to you? All this to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this lowering of the voting age for the European elections must be decided for good reasons, and certainly not in the hope of winning votes, but with a view to giving a new breath to Europe, as well as to our democracy, by giving young people their rightful place within it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u90	Madam President, our colleague Rohonyi has asked several questions, as well as our colleague Fonck, and I would like to retain three. First, the question of young people being afraid of being influenced. In fact, I find it extremely mature. If the 16-year-olds say, "I'm afraid I'm being influenced; I'm afraid my father will push me to vote for some parties," I find it proof that they're mature enough to make a choice. Knowing that they already have this thought in their head: "What do I really want?" Instead, strengthens my belief that young people are mature enough. Secondly, you talked about the accompaniment. Does everyone agree to accompany? I believe that all Members must make this commitment. I take it, and I hope we all do. I also like you to stress the role of education. I spoke about the importance of the federated entities that also had to take up this issue. I think that education obviously has a role to play, particularly through the philosophical approach courses to citizenship, which I envisage in any case in this way. They should be seen like that. I think the philosophical question is important, just as much as citizenship. It's learning to question citizenship. I agree with your request and, yes, I am committed to it. Thirdly, Mrs Fonck raised the issue of mandatoryity. Some parties wanted to question mandatoryity. I think some colleagues have already responded. As far as Ecolo-Groen is concerned, there is absolutely no question of calling into question this mandatory character. We are very attached to it. We believe that this is very important in the functioning of our democracy today. Here are our answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u91	Madam President, I will not intervene, but I note that Mr Defossé is answering all the questions. Maybe he can answer my question. Why don't you put that in for the local elections in Wallonia? All parties are in favour, but your competent minister does not want it, it is not in the coalition agreement. This is a genuine question. I am genuinely interested in why you do not introduce this before the local elections in Wallonia, while you are advocating it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u92	Madam President, we will avoid ping-pong. If it were all about Ecolo-Groen, we would do it tomorrow. There's no problem for us. We hope that all parties... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u93	If the parties are for, it can be tomorrow. But this is not included in the government agreement. It will not have escaped you that we are here at the federal level, and that we have not taken over the federated entities. If colleagues also want to move forward at the level of federated entities, I really encourage them to do so. But what is happening at the level of the federated entities is not our responsibility, as I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I can conclude this special debate. I am also very pleased that we may be able to take this step together today. Mr Verhaert already referred to the history of this proposal and paraphrased a tweet that I placed this morning. It started with a press release from me as young people's president almost 15 years ago and in the meantime there is a legislative proposal before it. You also updated me on the even longer history. You even told me that Open Vld was already in favour of this idea when Jean-Marie Dedecker was a senator for Open Vld. I learned that today and I am pleased with this additional information. Every success in politics is always teamwork. This is not a story of Ecolo-Green alone or of myself. It is the story of a group of people who have tabled this proposal and of a very good cooperation with the two competent ministers, Mrs Wilmès, responsible for European affairs, as a leader and Mrs Verlinden from her powers for Democratic Renewal and Home Affairs. So what is going on here is teamwork, but I am not going to sit down or sit down and say that almost 15 years after I sent out the press release when I was young and impetuous, I am satisfied to be able to actually take this step in the end in this House. Perhaps we should also look back at the debate that has just taken place. Interesting things have been said, but I am also a little shocked by a number of interventions. The intervention of Mr Pas surprised me, especially her reaction to the anecdote of Mr Farih, who told me about this morning's school visit. Mr Farih is one of our most enthusiastic colleagues, she is always kind and positive. So she just shared with us the anecdote that there were students visiting and that it was a nice meeting. I must admit, Mrs Pas, that your bitch, negative reaction surprised me. We all know how much fun it is to welcome young people into this hemisphere. Surely we have all been able to see the effect of such a meeting and such a passage in this House? Before entering, people are wondering what is happening in that Parliament. A meeting of fifteen minutes often suffices to see young people turn home with much more interest in politics. I'm glad Mrs Farih shared that anecdote with us. Mrs Pas, we can differ on this bill. You are not in favour of this, and we are enthusiastically in favour of it. That's democracy, too. We differ daily on 101 matters, certainly Green and the Flemish Interest. The N-VA and the proposers of this proposal also have many differences of opinion. However, what unites us as representatives of the people is the belief that political action matters, that a parliamentary election matters, that it has meaning to invest in it and that it means that people are interested in it? I have missed that in all honesty in your speech and that of the colleagues of the N-VA. We may differ on this bill, but we all have the mission to pass on the enthusiasm for and the importance of politics to young people when they visit us and when we meet them in the campaign for the European elections. For my second comment, I agree in part with Mr Boukili's reasoning. If young people are not interested in politics today, it is above all a lack of interest in party politics, the political institutions and the people who should represent them today. However, young people are interested in the future of migration policy and climate policy. They're worried about their retirement, too. If there is not enough interest today, then that is our problem as politicians rather than the problem of young people. Mr Boukili says that politicians are denying all their promises. Then comes the standard list of the PTB. When looking at politics in young people's eyes, one must also say that democracy is also a compromise, that democracy is never completely right, that politicians sometimes have to do things that are not entirely consistent with their beliefs. I agree with him when he says that if young people are not interested, it is not about the essence of politics but about party politics and institutions. This is also apparent when schools are received here. They are overloaded with information on the political groups, the Communities and the Regions, the Chamber and the Senate, the first reading and the second reading. That's enough to scare people away from politics. However, when we ask people for their opinion, for example on whether taxes should be paid on wealth or on labour, there is already another discussion. Should nuclear power stations be kept open or closed? There are also different opinions on this question. Young people are really convinced of and interested in politics today, but perhaps not in our party politics. They may not be eager to buy a member card from one or the other group, but they are awake from the issues that are really politically concerned. I believe that the step we are taking here will take three things: more Europe, more young people and more democracy. Firstly, on more Europe, I can honestly understand the criticism. The local level is certainly also entitled to vote, perhaps even more, but that is something we cannot do here now. Mrs Pas, Mr Loones, I suspect that your speech was not a plea for the re-federalisation of local elections legislation and for a decision to be taken in the federal Parliament. This is a matter for the Flemish and Walloon Parliaments. I now join Mrs Rohonyi. At the same time, it is nice and significant that just the European level will be the first level of voting rights. That is, after all, the level of policy of the future. We often have the debate here in Belgium on the Flemish and federal levels. However, the level of the future, ladies and gentlemen, is the European level. Mr Van der Donkt was also somewhat sceptical about this. He wondered if people were awake from Europe. I have just described the themes from which they lie. They are also discussed at the European level, par excellence even. There's another reason. Take a look at Mr Loones and Mrs Van Bossuyt, two people with experience in the European Parliament. By giving young people the right to vote for the European Parliament, we give them the right to vote for the only real parliament that can be voted on. There is much more there than in the federal Parliament, Mr Loones and Mrs Van Bossuyt know this, because they have been European MEPs who are often suffocated by governmental agreements, participation and coalition pressure, working together over majority and opposition. There are several majorities there. There, MEPs often take the lead in making legislation. So, Mr van der Donkt, I do not agree that it is actually a bad idea or a bad choice to just choose the European Parliament as a place to give young people more say. Moreover, that is also a question from that same European Parliament. It is also remarkable that we are the third country to give the right to vote from the age of 16. Mrs Rohonyi and other Members have already said that Belgium is now the third country, after Austria and Malta. It is therefore a choice for more Europe. Secondly, it is also a choice for more youth involvement. It is a pity that Mr Dedecker has gone away for a while. He was rather denigrating about the climate youths, which he called braces. I still prefer braces to bullies. All the parties who have called in recent years that young people should go to school on Friday should be the first to give them a chance to express themselves politically in a different way. We are therefore giving more young people the opportunity to take part in political decision-making. It is fine for me that they organise a climate strike once in a while, but I would prefer them to be heard about the policy of the future. By the way, giving young people from 16 years of age the chance to speak politically is not so crazy. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, the Van Grembergen Decree or the Homans Decree on the local referendum - Mr Van Hecke, who knows both federal laws and the Flemish decrees by heart - has just whispered this to me - stipulates that young people from 16 years of age and therefore not 18 years of age may participate in local referendums. In Flanders, therefore, there was no provision for political participation to start at the age of 18. In fact, you have already joined the group of parties who grant certain political rights to young people from 16 years of age. In short, more political rights for young people is a choice for young people and for the future. Thirdly, the bill provides for more democracy. It is potentially creating 270,000 extra voters, the population of a large city, who will vote on the European Parliament in the European elections of 2024. I like that, but I'm realistic. Not all 270,000 young people will show up. I'm saying it's only gonna be a small part of it. We have to do everything we can to convince them. Every turnout voter aged 16 or 17 is a democratic win. Even ten days ago, in a manner of speaking, every extra voter is a democratic profit. That is why it is also a proposal for more democracy. Let us not dwell on that. Mr Van der Donkt has a point when he underlines that political renewal means more than voting rights from 16 years of age. This legislative proposal brings about an important passage from the chapter on political renewal, but please do not allow it to be the only passage that we are putting into practice this legislature. The chapter on political renewal also contains a passage on the status of Members of Parliament, a passage on joint committees and a passage on the involvement of citizens in parliamentary work. I also mention the passages on party financing and the lobby register. My enthusiasm for this bill does not mean that my hunger has been appeased. On the contrary, it should encourage us to do more, even in the same atmosphere, even if they are not part of the coalition agreement. Today, we are choosing a stronger representative democracy to give more people the opportunity to participate and speak out in elections. The legislative proposal may be adopted shortly, but there are several other proposals for discussion. I am thinking of the CD&V Group's proposal to give people the opportunity to vote more easily by letter or by proxy, a legitimate concern of the CD&V colleagues. I am in favour of more voters, not just for my party, but for the whole democracy. After the step today, the next logical step is the CD&V proposal: in order to increase the number of voters, we need to make it easier for people to participate in elections, to speak out. I also mention the proposal already adopted in the Senate to allow Belgians abroad to vote in regional elections. In particular, colleagues from MR have been calling for this for a long time, as have we. Mr De Maegd and his group colleagues have long been in favour of the Belgians taking part in the regional elections abroad. I think that's also a step, after today, we have to take. We need to be able to get people to vote by letter and make Belgians vote abroad in regional elections. The more voters, the better. And there's more we can do. I refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Defossé and myself which advocates online registration, in particular for the 16 to 18-year-olds in the European elections and also for non-Belgen in municipal elections. That online registration I propose to lower the thresholds. A democracy benefits from low-threshold and as many voters as possible. I am already contradicting Mr Dedecker as if the electoral calculator was used in the drafting of the proposal, so that Ecolo-Groen would bring in the two so sought-after European seats in 2024, because it did not succeed in 2019. Better campaigning is a solution, but more voters are also a solution. Mr Dedecker just spoke of the electoral calculator, but I do not agree. As far as the CD&V proposal is concerned, based on electoral and political research, I believe that there may be fewer Green voters than CD&V voters by letter or by proxy, even though that may change with new Presidents of both parties. I don't care. What interests me is as many voters as possible, as much democracy as possible. The more democracy, the better. The proposed step is not perfect, but it is an important step forward. I would like to invite colleagues from the N-VA and the Flemish Interest to think again between now and the vote, because we are, first and foremost, people with party beliefs, people's representatives and democrats, and actually, people's representatives and democrats can only vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject under discussion concerns young people aged 16 and 17. I've made my living with them for 30 years and I've done it with a lot of heart and enthusiasm. Without prejudice to the speeches made by my fellow party members even against the background of colleagues Calvo's enthusiasm in this matter, we cannot really think about this bill in terms of winners and losers. Moreover, I understand your cheer, Mr Calvo, because you started this so many years ago, and your text will soon be law and published in the Belgian Official Journal and you will be able to write it on your conto, with which I congratulate you, even if it is only symbolic. I think it actually means very little. If I can believe De Standaard's poll, we even score best with that audience; I can hardly believe it, but the facts are what they are. In any case, we should not count on each movement who is the winner, because two years later that may not be the case. That is not the way to look at things. How many of the people who intervened here actually worked with 16- and 17-year-olds? How many of them have registered that there is a great demand for majority voting? I am not saying that there is no question of interfering, in the good sense of the word, in the social debate. There is absolutely no such question. Those who say that attention should be paid to it in education do not know that we started it thirty years ago. I have held elections with 16- and 17-year-olds about every year. Everyone was chosen to represent a party, regardless of their beliefs. They had to read those programs. They had to defend their positions, sometimes completely against their beliefs. They had to try to warm people up for that. Then there were votes cast. Those were incredibly exciting and interesting moments. This is crucial in guiding young people in that fantastic instrument and the fantastic environment we call democracy. That's where it happens, and not by making a ball of red or green on a Sunday or Thursday. In those 30 years, I have seen that it is about a process of growth. 16-year-olds are in full swing in that growth process. At that time, they must be absolutely encouraged in the process of growth in education, but also beyond, in youth movements and so on. The issue raised here has a very marginal role to play. The N-VA will vote against later. You will vote in favour and this will be law. I'm not shocked. I don't think that's too bad. But you don't solve any problems with it. We know that the commitment, interest and interest in a broad range of public opinion, not only of 16- and 17-year-olds, but also of 36- and 37-year-olds, including 56- and 57-year-olds, is waning. That is something that is more meaningful for us from a democratic point of view. Because a lot of what is sold under the term "political renewal" is actually curieren am Symptom. That is actually saying: there is a problem, let us pretend that we are offering some solution to that problem. I think they're wrong. One of the elements of your speech, Mr Calvo, and of others, was that Europe is actually the instrument where it can be done. Then you say that this Parliament is a body of ever-decreasing significance. This means that the heart of democracy is being undermined by that Europe. That issue is not being raised. You do give our young people the right to vote at a level that has a big impact on them, but let's face it, their voice has almost no impact on that level. You give the impression that they are participating in the democratic process, which is purely technical, but you invite them to give their voices, unlike, for example, in school councils or other places where they can shape policies at the lowest level, at a level that is faced with a serious democratic problem, and where the electorate is miles away from the concrete policy that is being pursued there. When we constantly hear the word 'democracy' and the word 'Europe' here, I think you do not mention the elephant in the room, in the European Chamber. That is an instrument with very low democratic legitimacy. That is a more serious problem, I believe, than the one before us today. Ladies and gentlemen, young people must be brought, accompanied and given more and more space to do what they have a fundamental right to do. This is part of shaping their immediate environment and an increasingly expanding environment. Let me conclude by saying that we too have a responsibility to take on board. It sounds like a political play, but I mean it. If we are all so interested in the future of the young people, I am glad that the Secretary of State is here, and I am thinking of our budget deficit. That is what they will face tomorrow. That is what will limit their future space to make their own decisions. That's a responsibility we have to take on. We will be doing them a much greater favor than this proposal, which we will be voting against. But I won't leave my sleep for it. I do not think this solves any problem, but neither does anything terrible happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u96	Two elements, very briefly. I think it is important that the debate ends on a positive note, for which Mr De Roover's intervention is not entirely appropriate. First of all, I do not want to cause discord in your group, but I invite Mr Loones, a former MEP, to reflect on your speech. It is a debate in itself; there are still many steps to be taken to further democratize Europe. I am one hundred percent behind the point I just made in the gallery. The European Parliament is very democratic, much less predictable, much less biased and much more parliamentary than ours. Many important things are being decided on in the people's real environment. I was somewhat surprised by the Eurosceptic approach to your speech. I remember the N-VA of about ten years ago, in 2009, the N-VA of Frieda Brepoels. At that time there were consistently two flags at each press conference, the Flemish and the European. The second one seems to have been getting more and more killed lately. If you think you're gonna solve everything with that one flag, you're gonna get off the ground seriously, especially when I look at the functioning of the current Flemish government. But that's another debate. I am surprised by the Eurosceptic tone of your speech. I think that the Greens, the Flemish nationalists and many political groups could pull one string and tell the young people that European democracy matters. It has imperfections, but it has meaning to speak out about them. Then one can also tell the same young people, Mr De Roover, that voting is not the same as voting a dictation. That was also my feedback on Mr Boukili's intervention. This is essential in a democracy. It's a drop in the ocean that waters up a little. This is watered down in a federal Parliament, which is watered down in a Flemish Parliament and, of course, watered down in a European Parliament. That brings me to my second point, Mr De Roover. This proposal gives us the opportunity to talk to young people about all the imperfections of our democracy, not to promise them that suddenly everything has changed, because that is not how politics works, that is not how democracy works. This proposal is an opportunity in that class to talk about the complexity of political structures, of our differences of opinion, of a European construction. There's so much going on in the schools, that's what you say. What do you think happens to this? A lot more. I'm sure of that. In 2024, this proposal will be a megaphone, a turbo for all initiatives already taking place in education. Then it is no longer about achieving the final terms, but about going to the booth. I'll tell you what we're gonna do in Mechelen. We will invite all schools to the European Parliament. I hope that they can get to know all the colors and form their own opinions. We're gonna give people a chance to register, not in the House of the Magician after school hours, but in their own school. We will. The initiatives you took at the time in the schools could thus gain strength and significance. That brings me to a third point. You ask what problem this solves. Well, it can't do much harm. That's a lot. I would like to apply that criterion to legislation that we approve here. It doesn't hurt, and that's a lot. I don't understand your negativity. You can't name a real problem, you just say it's not a solution. I also think that much more needs to be done. However, this does not create any problem, quite the contrary. Mr De Roover, if you manage to convince ten people to take advantage of this and Mr Verherstraeten does so, and everyone here does so, then that is democratic profit, is it not? That's a beautiful thing. If we manage to convince people not only to vote for our party but also to register, then we have done something meaningful. Then we have not created a problem, but a start to the solution. Mr De Roover and Mr N-VA, you are traditionally more pro-European than your speech shows and you want to be on the side of the democrats and the political renewal. So I really hope you'll reconsider. It would be very nice if we could take this step unanimously. It is not a perfect solution, but it is a step forward, and that is a great deal in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u97	Kristof, I'd like to give you a second chance to finish a little more positively. I would like to make a few comments about your last reply to what Peter has just argued. I notice that there is not only a distance between young people and European politics and the functioning of the European Parliament, but that, if possible, this distance is even greater between this Chamber and the European Parliament. The knowledge here in this Parliament about what is being decided at European level and how this decision-making works is far from reality. I am very concerned about that and I think many colleagues are with me. There are indeed major, important debates that have an immediate impact on hundreds of millions of people. So it is important that this happens properly. In addition, this country will soon be President of the European Union. When I look at the knowledge that is present here about how politics is done there, I am really very concerned. How are decisions taken and how do these laws come about? Kristof, it is not the European Parliament that adopts these laws on its own. The European Parliament does not even have the right of initiative to make legislative proposals. The European Commission is doing so and should do so in a neutral way, as an administration. However, it is more and more political, which means that it is no longer the oil in the wheel, but becomes part of the problem in the formation of European consensus, where it should be neutral. The European Council is no longer able to take truly visible decisions. Perhaps that is because they now have a chairman who is less expert on compromise than the previous one. I see Mr Verherstraeten sitting next to me. My point is that there is something thoroughly wrong in European decision-making. That's what Peter argued. There really is something very wrong in the way we look at European decision-making. Madam President, I said it at the Conference, but I would also like to repeat it to the public here, we still have a lot of work to do if we really want to take up the European Presidency properly. However, as it now looks, it will be embarrassing and this house will only be a reception room for a number of events. The N-VA Group will be presenting its own proposals to deal with this more seriously, so that Parliament can not only give a symbolic right to vote here, but we can also make it clear ourselves that we can respectfully deal with this European debate, that we want to take responsibility and take up positions with knowledge. Hopefully there will also be unanimity in this Chamber. Since Mr Verherstraeten is sitting next to me, I had to think about the Minister responsible, Mrs Verlinden. The next point has only been dealt with side by side in this debate. I really don't understand why this has to happen now. In all your speeches, you say that we must respect the young people and the coalition agreement. This would be a first step that we are taking, but it is a broader framework of measures to encourage political innovation, to increase energy and to take it more seriously. Well, at this very moment, your great citizen question is running. Its launch cost 2.1 million euros. There are questions about how we organise the elections and how we can ensure that more people vote. It asks whether votes should remain mandatory or not and what other initiatives can be taken. I went to look at the reactions and had to conclude that your citizen interview is not exactly a great success. Several people indicate in the idea box that the age of election should be taken into account. Some people want to lower it, others want to keep it at 18 years. You come here with a story about respect for young people and for the given word. However, you do not even have a minimum of respect for the competent ministers who were asked to set up and supervise this citizen search. After all, you do not even dare to wait for what the voters say about it. In fact, you said very explicitly in committee that people should not talk about it, that you are not interested in the opinions and the citizen's question about the reduction in the age of election, because it has already been decided in the coalition agreement. You don't want the citizen questioning to be a petition about the government agreement. You ask people's opinion, but not everything. If they give their opinion, you will only respect them on the points you believe should be respected. How can you come here with a big story about respect, political commitment and democracy if you do not have the courtesy to put it to the vote after 5 June? After all, the questioning of citizens will have ended and you will have been able to know what people themselves are saying and whether they want that age to be reduced or not. Even that respect is evidently not to be found here today by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u98	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u99	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2373/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2373/5) The Commission has adopted a proposal to amend the law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament in order to allow citizens from the age of 16 to vote. The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament in order to allow citizens from the age of 16 to vote." The bill has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u101	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marianne Verhaert, Goedele Liekens, Christophe Lacroix, Kattrin Jadin, Séverine de Laveleye, Els Van Hoof, Vicky Reynaert, Wouter De Vriendt, Michel De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u102	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2672/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2672/4) The title has been changed by the commission to "proposal for a resolution on the continuation of an international criminal investigation into acts of sexual violence committed in the context of the armed conflict in Ukraine and the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, entitled "Women, Peace and Security". The title was changed by the Commission to "Proposal for a resolution on the continuation of an international criminal investigation into sexual violence in the armed conflict in Ukraine and the application of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 entitled "Women, Peace and Security'. The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution on the establishment of an international criminal investigation into sexual violence in the war in Ukraine received urgency two weeks ago in the plenary session and so last week the discussion took place in the Committee on External Relations. Mrs Verhaert of the Open Vld Group explained the proposal as the main proposer. Ever louder and more often there are horrible testimonies of sexual violence in Ukraine. Those stories, of course, affect all of us. Mrs Verhaert referred, among other things, to the horror images of Boetsha and the events in Irpin. Mrs Verhaert says that it is important to provide evidence and document testimonies from the outset and that victims should not under any circumstances remain in the cold. It urged Belgium to follow the example of the United Kingdom, which will support the International Criminal Court. After all, the longer the investigation into the crimes of sexual violence continues, Mrs Verhaert says, the more difficult it becomes to collect evidence. Anyone guilty must be identified, prosecuted and punished. The culture of impunity must be tackled. According to the main applicant, Belgium has to contribute to this. Rape is the oldest and cheapest weapon of war, according to Mrs Verhaert. In an armed conflict, rape and other forms of sexual violence are used as a weapon of humiliation and destruction. There are treaties on the use of biological and chemical weapons in war, but not on sexual violence in conflict situations. There is little talk about this in politics, let alone initiatives to stop the phenomenon, according to the main proposer of the motion for a resolution. Although there is no lack of reports, that is much less the case for convictions. This should include not only the punishment of perpetrators, but also victim support. According to Mrs Verhaert, the psychological impact of rape and sexual torture is still underestimated. As soon as a war ends, we all hope that it will be as soon as possible, one soon thinks about the reconstruction and the invisible wounds of the victims are forgotten. Finally, Mrs Verhaert refers to some passages from the book Our body, your battlefield, which prompted her to submit the proposal. She concluded that politicians should be shaken and testimonies in the book should be central to the process of recovery. In the general discussion, Mrs Safai of the N-VA will undoubtedly support the proposal to her group. Mrs de Laveleye of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance notes that cases of sexual violence have often remained under the radar in history and have only been supported by limited evidence. It recalls that crimes of a sexual nature have already been included in international texts and stresses that the Belgian Government has not been waiting for the proposal to take necessary steps in this respect. Mrs de Laveleye concludes that the text, as the federal government can play a decisive role throughout the story, will strengthen the government. Mrs Bonaventure of the PS Group also expressed her support for the proposal. According to Mrs Ponthier of the Flemish Interest Group, everyone with the eyes has been able to identify the unacceptable crimes caused by the war in Ukraine and argues that it is necessary to ensure that the crimes are thoroughly investigated, all the more so because women are particularly vulnerable in a war situation, perhaps even more so than other citizens. The Flemish Interest Group will therefore support the proposal. Mrs Jadin of the MR Group says that the war in Ukraine not only confronts us with repeated human rights violations, but also with violence directed specifically at women and children as a weapon of war. It therefore considers it essential that this is condemned as vigorously as possible and that we give ourselves the instruments to combat these crimes, such as this motion for a resolution. Mr De Maegd of the MR Group says that sexual violence is a real weapon of war in many parts of the world, including in Eastern Congo, and that such war crimes and crimes against humanity, often with irreparable psychological and physical consequences for the victims, are now also taking place in Ukraine. In his view, it is very important to support the victims and to prosecute those responsible. Mr De Maegd therefore felt that the proposal should send a strong signal to the aggressors in Ukraine. Mr De Vuyst of the PVDA-PTB Group referred to the Nuremberg processes after the Second World War in which war was recognized as the greatest crime against humanity. The fact that these crimes are committed is nothing new, according to Mr De Vuyst, and in that sense it is very positive that the proposal is put in place and has a solid legal framework so that those responsible can be punished and the victims can be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u104	However, the Member points out that, given the context, the focus is mainly on Ukrainian displaced persons, but at the same time there are also crimes in many other regions around the world. He is therefore tabling an amendment in this respect, which strengthens that wording. Mrs Reynaert of the Forward Group confirms that rape is indeed often used as a weapon of war. It therefore considers it of the utmost importance that these crimes be condemned, investigated and prosecuted. It also points out that access to contraception is limited, that the risk of sexually transmitted diseases has increased during the war period, that there is a shortage of vital medicines for HIV patients, that the number of risk pregnancies and births is increasing, that the rights of the LGBTQIA+ community are under pressure and that the number of high-risk abortions is increasing. Finally, Mrs Van Hoof states that the figures available are only part of the facts and that it is important to combat war crimes. It also points out that the women and girls concerned are generally not sufficiently involved in the search for solutions and in the conflicts, whereas participation by that group in the negotiations could, of course, provide part of the solution. This experience shows that negotiations and peace agreements have a greater chance of achieving lasting success. A number of amendments were then tabled, particularly by Mrs Verhaert, who should strengthen the proposal for a resolution. They contain a number of references to international resolutions and agreements. It also refers to the Murad Code, a global code of conduct that seeks to address sexual violence in conflicts. It attaches great importance to the question of adding this code, like the other amendments. Finally, the vote was held in committee. The motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. There were no votes against and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u105	Madam President, the reports of systematic and intuitive violence against the civilian population we are getting from Ukraine are alarming and directly contradict the international treaties to which all warring parties in the conflict must obey. The use of rape as a weapon against especially the female population, but also against children and men, is particularly worrying. Not only will the civilian population be the victims, women also play a not insignificant role in the defence of the country in both combat and support roles. Around 15% of Ukrainian armed forces would currently consist of women, which also led to women being taken prisoner of war. Here too, there are reports that they were tortured and humiliated and that they were subjected to sexual violence. The fact that the Russian army is using rape as one of its weapons of war against the people of Ukraine is more than clear. Only the scale and possibilities of the international community to combat this are unclear. We therefore fully support this motion for a resolution, but we do have some reservations about the further introduction of new international instruments to combat rape in post-conflict situations. An important part of this resolution will therefore have to be what the Belgian contribution can or should be to effectively combat what we see happening in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u106	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Verhaert for putting the subject of sexual violence in Ukraine on the table in Parliament. In fact, sexual violence in general, and specifically in times of war, are crimes that are very old, often systematic, too often quiet and far too often subjected to impunity but yet abject and that destroy victims at least as much as bombs. The fact that Parliament denounces these facts and calls on all levels of power and the International Criminal Court to pay specific attention to these crimes is not only relevant but also necessary. Of course, the federal government has not waited for our parliamentary work to move forward and I want to say fortunately! Belgium is one of the countries that filed a petition requesting the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court to investigate the situation in Ukraine. Our government didn't just ask to do it. It also provided the means to conduct the investigation by allocating a voluntary contribution of Euro500,000 to the Trust Fund of the International Criminal Court. That being said, this resolution allows us, as a Parliament, to recall the need to pay particular attention to this type of violence, which mainly affects women but also increasingly affects children and men. As such, our group is pleased to have been able to co-sign this text, but above all to be able to vote on it tonight, and thereby to support the efforts of the various stakeholders to put an end to these crimes and to prosecute those who committed them. Mrs Verhaert, thank you again for allowing this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u107	Madam President, like my colleague, I want to thank Mr Verhaert, who is on the initiative of this important resolution. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear that the number of sexual violence and rape perpetrated by Russians against Ukrainian women is increasingly documented. The information on the difficulties faced by Ukrainian refugees and internally displaced persons in accessing sexual and reproductive health care in Ukraine and neighbouring and transit countries in which they find themselves is of great concern. Indeed, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that, since 24 February, several million Ukrainians have fled their country. More than 7 million Ukrainians are internally displaced and many of them are still in areas hit by the fighting. The war puts strong pressure on Ukrainian health care. As a result, they are at risk of sexual abuse, unplanned pregnancies, and at-risk pregnancies and deliveries. The challenges are also enormous for LGBTQIA+ fugitives, especially in countries where they later find themselves such as Hungary and Poland that stigmatize and criminalize sexual minorities. So you will understand why I have co-signed this text, which I find essential. It also has a very strong merit, that of putting forward the concept of rape as a weapon of war, a matter of great concern which my group has been defending for a long time and which is the subject of a motion for a resolution that I am addressing on this subject for women in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and particularly in North and South Kivu, areas that have been in armed conflict for almost 30 years. The war in Ukraine must not, of course, make us forget the atrocities that are taking place elsewhere in the world and that we must, all of us, continue to care about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already seen many terrible things in the terrible war in Ukraine, namely whole villages being destroyed, mass executions by civilians and bombings. However, we should also bear in mind the horror that women in Ukraine and other areas of conflict have to endure today. During war situations, women and children are always the first victims. They are physically more vulnerable and are eagerly used by aggressors. A war loosens the worst in people. Examples of the evil that comes to women are, of course, the mass rapes in cities like Boetsha and Charkov. Russian soldiers and mercenaries are frustrated by the military losses they are suffering. They work their frustrations beastly on Ukrainian women. There's no justification for that sexual violence. Not only does it take place at random, because soldiers are frustrated, it is also a conscious strategic weapon of war used by occupiers, including in Ukraine. There is a need for much more international attention to be paid to this. We fully support this. Rape as a weapon of war is not a subordinate crime, which is psychological and physical terror, with a broader impact than only on the individual who is victim. It is now time for action, for all those women who fall victim to a weapon that should be prohibited as chemical or biological weapons, namely the rape weapon. The fact that we anchor this in international criminal law as an autonomous crime almost speaks for itself. A multilateral legally binding framework is needed to prevent and combat sexual violence in war zones. In this context, there are the amendments tabled by Mrs Verhaert. Among other things, the proposed Murad Code of Nobel Prize winner Nadia Murad may be interesting as a guideline. On the committee, I didn't know the exact content of that Murad Code. I asked Mrs Verhaert for additional explanations on this. At that time, she had to remain guilty of the specific answer. Mrs Verhaert, you indicated at that time that you would inform all the committee members about this. We are still waiting for the note you were going to give us. I hope it can be delivered very quickly. Furthermore, we must also provide victims of sexual violence, who are taken care of by us and in the conflict areas themselves, with the necessary medical and psychological assistance. Tailor-made help, adapted to their specific situation. It is also urgent for an independent UN investigation into sexual crimes in Ukraine. The International Criminal Court must also play a role in monitoring, prosecuting and punishing perpetrators. Ladies and gentlemen, we will therefore give our full support to this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank Marianne Verhaert, who took the initiative to table this motion for a resolution. As we have heard from the various interventions, unfortunately this problem still needs to be highlighted. Rape as a weapon of war is particularly violent and unworthy. We must, as has been recalled in committee and again this afternoon in plenary, provide ourselves with a legal framework that will allow for international prosecution, which will also allow us to show a very firm attitude towards these rapes perpetrated in these war-ridden regions. We talked about Nadia Murad, which I had the opportunity to invite to participate in a symposium at which she was able to share with us the experiences of the Yezidi minorities, including victims of the Islamic State. Just thinking about it, Madam President, it gives us the hen. We can only stand in solidarity with all these women, with all those children who are suffering these atrocities in regions at war, particularly in Ukraine. I hope that through this resolution, which my group will, of course, strongly support, we will also be able to bring our little stone to the building so that these atrocities are not only recognised as crimes at the international level, but also and above all so that they can be prosecuted and severely punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u110	Madam President, in my turn, I want to associate my voice with this text which calls for an investigation into these sexual crimes, the war crime of rape. As stated in the text, this is one of the oldest war crimes, and is still being used today, in the twenty-first century, in such a horrific manner. A crime that reminds us, once again, that those who pay the most expensive price of war remain the people and, in this case, women and children. My group will of course support this text, because it is a matter to be taken very seriously, so that those responsible for these crimes are severely punished. I would like to take this opportunity to resubmit an amendment which I tabled in committee. I believe that, in a moment of inattention from my colleagues in committee, this amendment did not obtain the majority to be adopted, so I will resubmit it today. Indeed, with my group, we see no reason to limit, in application No 4, only to Ukrainian returnees such psychological support and medical assistance as may be necessary in the event that persons have been victims of sexual violence and in the event that it is necessary to take measures for such persons to ensure that these testimonies are carefully documented and that they can be transmitted to the competent international bodies. There is no reason why we should not also offer such assistance and support to conflict refugees in Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq, Somalia, Ethiopia, Yemen, the Congo or Rwanda, refugees who are also present in our territory, here in Belgium. Indeed, if we consider that this weapon of war is so atrocious that we must act and punish the culprits and provide support to the victims, I believe that all victims of rape in the event of war would deserve this support. This is a correction in this text so as not to distinguish between victims and war refugees. All refugees in Belgium who had suffered such atrocities must be treated in the same way and must also be able to benefit from such important psychological support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u111	Madam President, we are indeed getting horrible testimonies of sexual violence in Ukraine. It has already been cited, the stories go through marrow and bone. In Irpin, a 17-year-old girl testified how her mother and her 15-year-old sister were raped by Russian soldiers and then killed. They had left her alive. She was too ugly... so she could tell us what atrocities had taken place there. This is one of the many reports of sexual violence by Russian troops and mercenaries. The Mukwege Foundation has reported over 400 cases of sexual violence and that is just the tip of the iceberg. The Ukrainian authorities would currently conduct about ten active rape investigations. Research shows that not only girls and women are victims of sexual violence, but also boys and men. The Ukrainian Minister for the Interior has indicated that the investigation is very difficult. Many victims are too traumatized and dare not speak. It is clear that Ukrainian researchers need help and that psychological support is needed. Too many victims are silent about the sexual abuse. Too many victims carry this trauma alone, the trauma of a lifetime keep dying inside. Far too many victims decide to proceed to silent suffering. With this resolution, we call on the federal government to call upon the International Criminal Court to carry out an in-depth and independent investigation into the crimes of sexual violence. Special units with experts should be assembled and sent to Ukraine. Our country needs to support where it can. It's important to collect evidence from the beginning and document testimonies. We must not leave the victims in the cold. The United Kingdom is going to support the International Criminal Court in this and our country must also do so. The longer it takes to start investigating those crimes of sexual violence, the harder it becomes to collect evidence. The soldiers and mercenaries who commit this must be identified, prosecuted and punished. This culture of impunity around sexual violence must be permanently broken, because rape is the oldest and cheapest weapon of war. In an armed conflict, rape and other forms of sexual violence are used as a weapon of humiliation and destruction. Land mines, biological and chemical weapons are banned by international conventions, but there is no convention for sexual violence in conflict and post-conflict situations. In many contemporary conflicts, citizens, both women and men, are victims of sexual violence throughout the world. From the Republic of Congo to Tigray, from Colombia to Myanmar, civilians in conflicts are victims of rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, sexual torture, sexual mutilation, sexual humiliation and numerous other forms of sexual violence. However, there is very little talk about it at political level. I know that the ICC has already condemned people for rapes in war zones, and I also know that rapes are explicitly listed in the Rome Statute. I know that it could be a war crime, that it could be a crime against humanity, and that it could even be an element in a genocidal trial. What is beautiful on paper is not always in practice. I am well aware that in armed conflicts it is particularly difficult to identify and track down perpetrators. However, it is not just about punishing offenders, it is also about supporting victims. That is why we are asking the federal government to work on a treaty on sexual violence as a weapon in armed conflicts. It is important to punish the perpetrators, but it is equally important to support the victims medically and psychologically. Victims of rape often suffer from stigmatisation and social isolation. They are even rejected by the community or abandoned by their families. They need protection. After all, even after the war is over, rapes often continue. Many victims are simply forgotten and left to their fate, because there is insufficient commitment to reintegration. We still see that today in Rwanda, Bosnia and Syria. The psychological impact of rapes and sexual torture is still underestimated. The invisible wounds of many victims are forgotten. Rape is a form of psychological terror and murder. Sexual violence in conflict and post-conflict situations is not collateral damage. It is a targeted strategy, to humiliate and destroy the opponent both morally and physically. It goes even further. It is a strategy that damages people, both girls and women, as well as boys and men, in such a way that they are no longer able to bring another generation into the world mentally and physically. There's got to be a mindshift internationally. Victims of crimes of sexual violence should be placed at the heart of international humanitarian law as well as international criminal law. That is why the resolution before us also calls on the government to endorse the new Murad Code. Mrs Ponthier is no longer here, but she attacked me in committee. The Murad Code, as I also replied in committee, is a code of conduct in which states commit themselves to taking more action against sexual violence in armed conflicts. It includes a number of key components, namely a global code of conduct for those who collect information from survivors of systematic and conflict-related violence. In addition, there is also a practical guide, which sets out ten principles for this code of conduct. In addition, there is also a survivor's charter, which is a document with prospects for survivors. Finally, a guide is also needed for next of kin, so that they know better what their rights are. At the committee meeting, via the committee secretariat, the link was provided to all committee members, so that everyone can find the extensive information. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also explained the common thread of the code in detail during the general discussion of the text. The aim of the Code of Conduct is to put the rights of victims, the survivors of sexual violence, at the centre. For example, the Code of Conduct proposes that States cooperate better in research, documentation and evidence collection. Evidence should be collected in a more ethical, efficient and effective way to prevent impunity. The Code of Conduct places victims and witnesses of crimes of sexual violence in armed conflicts at the centre. That is the message of the motion for a resolution. Behind the term victim hides a person, a face, a name and a story. That's what I'm trying to prove with the text. When we have to re-assess how victims of crimes of sexual violence are left to their fate, we can only conclude that the political world is being shaken up as a matter of urgency. I therefore sincerely hope that my proposal today will receive the support of all political groups and will therefore be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, rape as a weapon of war is terrible, and almost every war rises. Unfortunately, that is also the case today in Ukraine. The testimonies are pouring in, but that's probably just the tip of the iceberg. It is very difficult to get a correct picture of what is happening in the regions under Russian occupation. However, it is clear that Russia is not only fighting a war against Ukraine, but also a war against women, children and even babies. When this happens on a large scale, a whole society is disrupted. It is therefore of the utmost importance that such crimes be investigated, prosecuted and convicted by the International Criminal Court. We therefore support the motion for a resolution. We thank the applicant, Mrs Verhaert, for her initiative. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that very many people from Ukraine are fleeing from Ukraine today, either fleeing their country or fleeing internally. However, there is only very limited access to contraception. There is therefore an increased risk of sexually transmitted diseases. There is also a lack of life-saving medication for people with HIV, an increased risk of unsafe pregnancies and childbirth, an even greater increase in gender-related violence, pressure on LGBTQI+ individuals' rights and, finally, an increased risk of unsafe abortions. This is where our country has a role to play. It is certainly important to advocate the granting of medical, psychological and legal support to victims of sexual abuse in Ukraine. It is a good thing that this is emphasised once again in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u113	Madam President, I thank Mrs Verhaert and all the co-signatories for the tabling of this motion for a resolution. Atrocious, traumatic and deadly abuses have taken place in Ukraine since the beginning of the conflict. Sexual violence is a terrifying, traumatic weapon that hurts the victims in their most intimate dignity. This is unbearable for the international community. Every effort must be made to prevent, combat and punish these heinous and cowardly crimes. The demands made in this resolution are obviously extremely important. The request for referral to the International Criminal Court, independent investigations, the collection of data through testimony, the recognition of all such violence as autonomous crimes are objectives that we actively support. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we will of course support this motion for a resolution which also mentions our capacity to act when welcoming these refugees, including psychological follow-up and the protection of these victims of atrocious crimes, which are often very insidious. I would like to thank you again for this motion for a resolution which we will support very strongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, whenever a war breaks out, it is accompanied by the worst atrocities that the human being is capable of committing, precisely because the war makes him lose all humanity, whether it is to terrorize, hurt, deport, rape, torture or even kill. These are crimes that violate humanitarian law, namely, the set of rules that aim to ensure the protection of civilians from the adverse effects of armed conflict. Unfortunately, it must be noted that, in many conflicts and the war in Ukraine is no exception, these rules are being flouted. As I said, when armed conflict breaks out, women are systematically raped and raped, sometimes even in front of their children, husbands or families. War dispossesses women from their bodies and sexuality, even mutilating their genitals. These terrible attacks on the physical and psychological integrity of these women and girls lead them to flee their country, or else to be victims of what could become genocide. He was seen in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tigray, Colombia, the former Yugoslavia and Burma. Civilian populations are still victims of rape and are plunged into prostitution or sexual slavery. Today, we cannot accept that after more than 75 years of peace, Europe is once again experiencing war and its atrocities. The more the days pass, the more the media and NGOs reveal the crimes committed by the Russian army, the more the testimonies of victims of sexual violence follow. Hundreds and hundreds of young women have been raped by Russian soldiers since the beginning of the war in Ukraine. No State can - at any time - turn a blind eye to this reality. That is why, like my colleagues, I wanted to welcome the sponsors of this motion for a resolution, because from the very beginning we are convinced that these atrocious crimes must be prosecuted before the International Criminal Court. We must respond to the call of the United Nations to open an independent investigation into rape and sexual violence in Ukraine today, as well as to invest in the search for evidence that will enable justice to do its job. We must provide medical assistance, including psychological assistance, to all victims who manage to return to our country. Whether they are victims of the war in Ukraine or any other armed conflict, we will therefore support the amendment by the PTB, which aims to broaden the scope of this motion for a resolution. Finally, and of course, we must help the victims who have remained there, where these atrocities are perpetrated. That is also why I welcome the call for special attention to be given to the gender dimension in the context of humanitarian aid to Ukraine. By ensuring, for example, that our humanitarian assistance pays attention to the access of Ukrainian women and girls to sexual and reproductive health care. In this context, it is imperative not to turn a blind eye to the situation of Ukrainian women who are prevented from practising abortion in Poland in view of the ultra-restrictive conditions for safe and legal access to abortion in that country. Because if abortion on the grounds of rape is allowed, the shortcomings and politicization of the Polish judicial system are such that they make it almost impossible to prove such an attack and therefore any abortion on the basis of this motive. The NGO Human Rights Watch was right to alert us to the situation of Ukrainian refugees who arrived in Poland, saying: "Poland must urgently strengthen its preventive and surveillance measures to protect Ukrainian refugees on its soil, especially women who are victims of trafficking, violence and rape." As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, it is with conviction that we will support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the war in Ukraine has since its first days highlighted the fate of Ukrainian women and children fleeing Russian bombings, first to Poland and then to other countries of the European Union. 90 per cent of refugees fleeing the war are known to be women and children. Despite the despair of their situation, some dark and cynical vultures were present as soon as they arrived in Poland to spread the nets of human trafficking, sexual exploitation. In view of the numerous alarm bells drawn by the competent authorities, the European Union and European countries had to protect women fleeing Ukraine from such violence. In addition, victims obviously had to have access to basic health services. It was only in a second phase of the war, when Russian forces withdrew from the villages around Kiev, that the remains were discovered and the testimonies of the victims of rape were collected. Faced with this reality in other conflicts, we want to strongly condemn the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war. They cause indelible physical and psychological injuries. What about unplanned pregnancies? I would even talk about unwanted pregnancies, which are an even greater wound for these victims. Dr. Denis Mukwege and his team have helped to make these atrocious facts known, but unfortunately, the 2018 Nobel Prize will have to make many more efforts to raise awareness of all the agencies in this fight and highlight the fight against impunity, which requires the collection of evidence. The instruments of the European Union must demonstrate their relevance. There is a joint Eurojust investigation with Ukraine and the competence of the European Union Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters can be expanded to collect, store and share evidence of war crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u116	Madam President, it is important that our country and Parliament continue to oppose any form of sexual violence in conflicts. That is why it is important that we adopt this resolution today. She explicitly condemns the use of sexual violence on Ukrainian women and girls. We have long known that wars not only take place between armies of brave men, but that unfortunately women and children are also often prominent among the victims. The use of sexual violence seems almost a routine operation during contemporary wars, it's permanent. As Mrs Verhaert said, we cannot leave these women and girls in the cold or treat them as collateral damage. It is not for nothing that sexual violence occupies a prominent place on the list of war crimes or crimes against humanity, as defined in international law. We must not allow these acts to go unpunished. There has already been a lot of plenary debate on this. We need to effectively support the International Criminal Court, both with people and resources, in order to adequately support the investigation, together with other countries and the UN. The risks posed by women and girls during conflicts have been known for some time now, including at international level. We have the very interesting resolution No. 1325 by the Security Council, which was adopted in 2000 and is well known by the women's movement. This resolution concerns women, peace and security. She's just trying to protect girls effectively from violence in times of conflict. Every four years, we adopt an action plan relating to that resolution No. 1325. We have done this recently in Belgium, in February of this year. What is the point, however, of making plans if they are not applied and are collecting dust? Therefore CD&V considered it very important to refer in this resolution to that action plan and the concrete objectives and actions associated with it. Let me give you some examples. We must strengthen the international normative framework for women in conflict situations so that they do not suffer the violence of war. We are also asking very explicitly for humanitarian aid to be targeted at victims of sexual violence and to give them access to sexual and reproductive rights. This is also reflected in our Action Plan 1325. Thirdly, we ask that the government actively fight against all possible forms of trafficking in human beings that could be victimized by women and girls from Ukraine. That's what we're doing right now. The last element has already been mentioned in the report. Women must become part of the peace negotiations. Hopefully someday they'll come. Many studies have shown that when women are at the negotiating table, the peace agreements are also much more sustainable. After all, it is also their future that is at stake. With this resolution, we want to empower women. In our solidarity with Ukraine, we must not forget the many raped Ukrainian women and girls. That is why we will wholeheartedly support this resolution. I thank the authors once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u117	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u118	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u119	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Theo Francken, Darya Safai, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Kathleen Depoorter, Sigrid Goethals, Tomas Roggeman, Koen Metsu, Michael Freilich, Bjorn Anseuw. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (2588/2) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject the bill. (2588/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on the proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u120	Madam President, we all agree that we should receive Ukrainian families in our country. That is absolutely not the point. The big discussion is about what to give when they arrive in Belgium. Our opinion is that there is no need to give a living wage. We have tabled a separate legislative proposal aimed at giving them a T card rather than an A card. This is a separate statute, as one gets in Denmark, Germany and other countries in Europe. One does not automatically give a living wage, but applies a bed-bath-bread scheme with guidance and limited weekly allowance. I would like to put that proposal back on the table, because I am convinced that the majority in Flanders and Belgium is in favour of it. That is why I am again asking for the vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u121	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject the bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u122	By letter of 9 May 2022, MM. Frédéric Givron and Serge Lipszyc, respectively Clerk and Chairman of Committee R, requested that the House, pursuant to Rule 20, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure of Committee R, grant Mr. Wouter De Ridder, former Clerk of Committee R, the honorary title of his office. By letter of 9 May 2022, Mr Frédéric Givron and Serge Lipszyc, the Registrar and the Chairman of the Committee I, respectively, asked that the Chamber, pursuant to Article 20 (2) of the Internal Rules of Procedure of the Committee I, grant Mr Wouter De Ridder, former Registrar of the Committee I, the title of his office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2022, I propose that the House grant this request and grant Mr. Wouter De Ridder the honorary title of his office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2022, I propose that the Chamber respond to the request and that Mr Wouter De Ridder be awarded the honorary title of his office. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u123	By letter of 12 May 2022, Ms Kathleen Stinckens, Chair of Committee P, announced that Mr Guy Cumps, Vice-Chair of Committee P, would be admitted to the pension on 1 June 2022. By letter dated 12 May 2022, Ms Kathleen Stinckens, president of the P Committee, announced that Mr Guy Cumps, Vice-President of the P Committee, would retire on 1 June 2022. She asked to grant him the honorary title of his post. She asks him to award him the honorary title of his position. This honorary title is in principle granted after two full terms have expired. The title of honour shall in principle be awarded after the expiry of two full mandates. Mr. Guy Cumps served four terms as a member of Committee P. Mr Guy Cumps had four mandates as a member of the P Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2022, I propose that the House accede to this request and grant Mr Guy Cumps the title of Honorary Vice-President of Committee P from 1 June 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2022, I propose that the Chamber respond to the request and that Mr Guy Cumps be awarded the title of Honorary Vice-President of the P Committee from 1 June 2022. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u124	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of the proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u125	Madam President, we are asking for the urgency of legislative proposal No. 2698 introducing a legal holiday on 8 May. Allow me to motivate our request for urgency. On 8 May last we were together with hundreds of people at the Fort of Breendonk. It is important to repeat that Breendonk was used by the Nazis during World War II as a shelter camp for dissidents, resistancemen, hostages and Jews. Trade unionists, homosexuals and artists were imprisoned, starved, tortured and murdered. Of the 3,590 prisoners, 303 died on the scene, 54 elsewhere and 1,741 lost their lives in the concentration camps. We met there at the invitation of the 8 May coalition, a group of survivors' organisations, children of victims of Nazism, children of resistance fighters, civil society organisations, trade unions and also people from the cultural world. They call for 8 May, the day of the victory over fascism, to be made a national holiday. Fascism is coming up again today, in Europe and also in our country, and proclaiming 8 May as a national holiday would therefore be a powerful signal to commemorate, warn, defend, as a moment of social cohesion, as a united will for peace and solidarity, as a call for action, so that young and old understanding can lead to what hatred can lead and what kind of ugly beast fascism is. Only when we know the past and remain vigilant about our constitutional freedoms can we, now and in the future, make the right choices, so that terrible history never, ever repeats itself. I met several colleagues from other parties in Breendonk that day and I know that they are fond of our proposal. The PVDA wants to quickly respond to the call of the 8 May coalition by submitting the bill. We hope that Parliament will work on its discussion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u126	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u127	Madam President, Mr Van Peel will take into account the justified absence of Mr Liekens in her voting. They have a vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u128	Are there any voting arrangements?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u129	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 11 May 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 11 May 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 276/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 276/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u130	Colleagues, human papillomavirus, popularly HPV, is a group of highly related viruses that cause abnormal cell growth in skin and mucous membranes. This can cause different types of cancer. The most famous one is cervical cancer. For a long time it was thought that this virus only affected women. However, an opinion from the Supreme Health Council shows that a quarter of HPV-related cancers also occur in men. Since the 2019-2020 school year, girls and boys can therefore be protected through the free school vaccination programme. If you are not eligible, you can buy the vaccine yourself from the pharmacist, but without refund. Today, the RIZIV only provides for reimbursement of the HPV vaccine, under certain conditions, for girls and not for boys. For example, a boy who buys the vaccine Gardasil 9 in the pharmacy pays almost 135 euros. These costs may amount to more than EUR 400, as multiple doses are required for full protection. A girl in the same situation pays 8 or 12 euros. Following this unequal reimbursement, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men received a complaint from a boy. Together they appealed against the RIZIV's refusal to intervene in the costs. According to them, unequal treatment is a violation of gender law and anti-discrimination law. The Brussels Labour Court also agreed with them. On 30 March last, the Brussels Labour Court ruled that boys are discriminated against in the reimbursement of the vaccine against HPV. My words in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities in response to my question about this vaccination were prophetic: "Why not do this for the boys? This can count in the context of discrimination." What I warned at the time is now confirmed by the court, namely discrimination based on sex, or to say it in left-wing words, on the basis of gender. In reply to my question on this subject, the Minister spoke about three steps. The first step is to ensure maximum vaccination of young girls. The second step is the vaccination of the cohort young boys, namely in the first secondary in Flanders and in the second secondary in Wallonia and Brussels. This has been happening since 2019. The third step is possibly the catching-up vaccination of boys who were just too old in 2019 and who are less than 19 years old now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u131	Mrs Sneppe, may I ask you to conclude your speech, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u132	There are two problems in this dossier. Firstly, vaccination against HPV should be extended to the age of 26 years. Secondly, the reimbursement of vaccination should apply to boys and girls up to 26 years old, because vaccination of the girls is also a matter for the boys and vice versa. Both protect each other. Ladies and gentlemen, Flemish Interest therefore calls for this motion to be supported in the interests of our young people. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u133	Mrs Sneppe, you have two minutes to give an explanation of vote. Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u134	Yes 83 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u135	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 11 May 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 11 May 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 278/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 278/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Tusters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u136	Madam President, the federal government has the declared ambition to reduce CO2 emissions in this country by 55% by 2030. That is why we want to encourage or perhaps force the use of emission-free cars. For commercial vehicles this becomes concrete already in 2026. In order to achieve its goals, this government is trying to seduce citizens into taking public transport, where, according to the Minister responsible, Mr Gilkinet should become the backbone of future mobility. It is therefore not only very strange, but even vengeful, to note that, in particular, the public sector, which is to be the prime alternative to sustainable mobility, SNCB, is itself throwing its feet at the government's objective of reducing CO2 emissions. SNCB has a fleet of 607 vehicles, of which 0 are completely emission-free. Of the 607 SNCB vehicles, 470 run on diesel, 123 on petrol and 14 cars are hybrid. It is appalling to note that this government shamelessly imposes obligations on companies and citizens to reduce CO2 emissions, driving companies and citizens towards expensive low-emission cars, but now it has taken on its own responsibility and role as a model. This vivaldi government, which also wants to build the polluting CO2 emission gas plants, is simply laughing at the citizens. With this motion, therefore, the Vlaams Belang asks the federal government to immediately take the necessary measures to ensure that SNCB takes its role as an example of ecological transport to heart through an adaptation of the fleet. Only in this way will Minister Gilkinet be able to maintain some credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u137	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u138	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u139	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 11 May 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 11 May 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 281/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 281/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Tusters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Planning Office is an independent national institution of public benefit. It makes studies and prospects on economic, social and environmental policy issues. The Federal Planning Bureau recently published the results of a study on transport prospects up to 2040. They carried out this study in collaboration with the FPS Mobility. The results of that study showed that fewer people will take the train in the coming years. Less people will choose the train to move. In concrete terms, the number of rail passengers would fall by 3%. It is striking that the number of passengers travelling by train for commuting is down by as much as 20%. The reasons for this are demographic change and an increase in telework, according to the study. In contrast to the declining number of rail passengers, it is striking that the car's share of our journeys will remain about the same by 2040 at 82%. According to the Federal Planning Office, the car will therefore remain clearly the dominant mobility choice. All this means little good news for the mobility plans of this government and the Minister responsible, Mr Georges Gilkinet. The Minister continues to dream of and fight for a reduction in car use, imposing a modal shift to public transport on citizens. The train, whose report thus makes it clear that it is not tasted, must be the backbone of future mobility. More trains in each station, at least two per hour, according to a Swiss-style driven model, better and punctual trains, more staff, service and accessibility and more efficiency are Minister Gilkinet's ambitions, without linking a budgetary plan to them. Because by 2040 the number of trucks on the road will also increase by about 20%, the Federal Planning Office predicts an increase in traffic jams and a decrease in speed on our roads. Therefore, the Flemish interest calls on the federal government to take immediately the necessary measures to ensure that federal mobility policy is aligned with the predictions established by the Federal Planbureu, based on fewer train passengers and the findings of the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u141	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u142	Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u144	Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u146	Yes 95 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u147	Vote on Amendment No 19 by Nabil Bouliki in point IV.4. (2672/5) Vote on Amendment No 19 from Nabil Bouliki to point IV.4. (2672/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u148	Yes [[12]] Yes No. 116 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u150	Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u152	Yes 96 Yes Non 36 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Therefore, Bill No. 2588/1 is rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 2588/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u153	Madam President, this week, when I drove home on the train, I left a station too late. I was distracted. The same has happened to me in the vote on the motion for a resolution. The vote was closed when I was rushing the button. However, I voted like my group, but I would have liked this to be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u154	No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u155	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Nabil Boukili to insert an Article 3/1(n). (2297/8) Vote on Amendment No. 1 by Nabil Boukili to insert an Article 3/1(n). (2297/ 8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u156	Yes [[10]] Yes No. 108 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the draft special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the draft special law as a whole must be adopted by a majority of the votes of each linguistic group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total number of positive votes cast in the linguistic groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u158	F I'll see you later. N Yes 51 128 77 Yes Non 0 0 0 No. Abstensions 0 0 0 Abstentions Total 51 128 77 Total The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The two-thirds majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the special draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. The quorum of the votes in each group shall be reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A two-thirds majority of the votes shall be cast. As a result, the House passed the special bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-19-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip181x.u159	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, May 25, 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 25 May 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
