ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u1	Minister, we have already discussed the need for direct contact with tax officials. However, since December, your administration has stopped by default stating the name, e-mail address and telephone number of the official handling a file or sending a message. There are, however, a number of laws which lay down a number of things. For example, the Charter of Users of Public Services states, inter alia, that the public authorities must ensure a proper reception and quality of contacts. In circular No. 360 clarifies that this means that public authorities should systematically state the name, capacity and telephone number in the correspondence. This provision is also contained in the Act of 11 April 1994. Can you therefore consider how the December decision relates to these standards? In your reply to my previous questions on this subject, you cited the danger of phishing as the main reason for the December decision. If all communication is done via the encrypted digital government platforms and citizens know this, phishing can indeed be prevented. Is this, however, the sole motivation of the decision? In this context, the ITAA even speaks of 'the disappearance of equal weapons', as tax controllers may seek information at any time, but accountants are less able to act proactively in a file. It therefore seems that they interpret this decision from a broader perspective. Does the possible influence of personal contacts between the tax inspector and the taxable person also play a role in that decision-making process? Finally, in your replies, you also referred to the ITAA newsletter. If I understand correctly, they have now received service codes. This allows them to call the right service, without having to go through the general menu of choice. However, it is unclear to me to what extent everyone has equal access to that information. The ITAA only shares these codes with its members and also plays a key role in the sector. However, from a competition point of view, it would appear unfair for accountants who are not members of ITAA to have less easy access to the administration. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u2	Madam President, Minister, it is a bit Kafka who invites himself to the FPS Finances! FPS Finance officers explain to me that they are no longer allowed to mention their telephone number on the mail they send to taxpayers. The only number indicated is a general FPS Finance number, or in any case a global number for some entities, from which it would be particularly difficult to obtain the information sought because it is many individual files. Take the case of a tax controller who controls a taxpayer and then sends him a notice of correction. The taxpayer receives this notice of rectification and does not fully understand paragraph 6. The only person who can answer his specific question is obviously the author of this notice of rectification, the tax controller. However, it is impossible for the taxpayer to reach this tax controller. Yesterday, a finance officer told me that the most amazing thing is that if he leaves a message on the taxpayer's answering machine, he won't be able to answer him because he can't leave his phone number. This situation is pretty amazing! Minister, do you confirm this ban that appears to be in place? What cases are covered by this prohibition? How do you justify such a ban? How is it that I have just mentioned to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u3	Mr Minister, I give you the floor because Mr Leysen is chairman of the Committee on Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u4	The FPS Finance indeed started a reorganisation of the internal telephony system in 2019 to centralise and optimise the telephone service. The individual service numbers are no longer directly accessible, but the employees are now part of matter-oriented response groups. The FPS Finance has chosen this strategy to increase the general telephone accessibility. While the service phone may have just kept ringing occasionally, that is not the case anymore. There is now guaranteed permanence between 9 a.m. and 5 a.m. In addition, there is now one central number, which, of course, makes it easier for the taxpayer. In the exchange of letters, the direct number is gradually replaced by a direct call code. By entering that call code, the taxpayer comes into direct contact with the competent answering group and thus with the co-weaker who can answer his or her question directly in the first line. If it is a question to which the employee cannot answer in the first line, because the question is too complex or because additional actions would have to be carried out, the question will be sent to the competent department for follow-up. In some cases, the taxpayer is immediately transferred to the file manager in question. You're quoting the law on public administration. According to that law, any correspondence on the basis of a federal administrative authority shall state the name, capacity, address and telephone number of the person who can provide more information on the file. Of course, the person who can provide more information on the file is not necessarily the person who drew up the letter himself or the file manager. The contact details on the letters will connect the taxpayer to an employee who will be able to provide general information on the file and, if necessary, will be able to communicate it to the file manager. We are also moving towards centralisation, without fixed file managers, in order to ensure that the files are treated equally and to work more efficiently. The direct call codes of our main response groups have indeed been delivered to the ITAA by my administration. In this way, accountants can get in direct contact with an employee of a given response group. However, these are not employees or response groups other than those with which the citizens or managers come into contact, if they go through the menu of choice. Entering the direct call code doesn't mean you have to go through the menu. This does not, of course, constitute a separate treatment or wider access to administrative services and information. Mr Van Hees, therefore, there is no question of a ban, but rather of a new stage in a process that started in 2019. The activation of the response group and the logical removal of the individual telephone number is a next step in addressing the challenges in the field. This telephone strategy is still being consulted with external interest groups in order to be able to address operational improvements in a concerted manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u5	Minister, we will of course continue to monitor the matter and maintain the necessary contacts with the various actors. We continue to work for maximum opportunities for direct contact between tax officials and taxpayers. We will give the system its opportunities and continue to be informed about its operation through civil society. If necessary, we will come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u6	Minister, I'm surprised. You're telling me this isn't a ban, but the agents I talked to told me that it was. They cannot communicate their telephone number to users, taxpayers. In particular, they cannot indicate this on their mail. For me, that corresponds to the definition of a ban. This clearly creates dissatisfaction. Public servants, taxpayers, accountants do not understand this prohibition. You can feel what's behind you. Previously, the citizen who telephoned did not get an answer immediately. So we tried to drown the fish by creating general numbers. From now on, one answers without giving an answer: the person who picks up is not able to do so because he or she does not know the file. Finally, it complicates things much more than it improves them. So I hope you will come back to this ban.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u7	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to speak in the topical and urgent debate. We have already put oral questions on the subject in a previous session, and I have already asked written questions about it. I would like to stress that the Flemish interest does not agree with the way things are going. The legislation in this country is particularly clear. In the Act on Public Administration, we read: "Every correspondence based on a federal administrative authority shall state the name, capacity, address and telephone number of the person who can provide more information on the file." The law is very clear, but is not applied here or flou. Moreover, the right to be heard in administrative or judicial proceedings is an essential part of the rights of defence which must be guaranteed in a state of law. This right is also enshrined in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. In short, we would like to see the practice of the past, in which the file manager is mentioned so that the taxpayer can contact it again. After all, anonymisation of the tax authorities certainly does not promote the rights of defence and fiscal transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u8	Madam President, I will support the various points made by some of our colleagues. Very recently, 15 days ago, I had the experience of this general telephone number: 45 minutes before being heard by an agent and, once I had it, he told me that I was not in the right service, that as a result he was sending me back to the plant, and it took me 35 minutes again. It wasn't that bad. I put the speaker on while I was waiting. You say this is part of the plan to improve service to the citizen. It's not. This gives an impression of the citizen's remoteness from his administration and from all walks of life. We will come back to this through the following questions: Indeed, when you ask to speak to the agent who first informed you very well, you are told that you will not be able to do so, since it is a general pole of agents who are supposed to deal with all matters. But you have to repeat the history of your file. Really, it's inefficient! It's not a local service. When citizens feel that they are not being heard - in times of tension and major crisis as we are experiencing them - they are distressed. If, moreover, they do not receive an answer or in an extremely complicated way, to their questions, the public service does not gain their confidence. Overall, we should return to a system of reference agents for mail exchanged with the tax administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u9	"Mr. Minister, fifteen days ago, this Parliament adopted a resolution calling on you, inter alia,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u10	How do you intend to implement the recommendations of this resolution and when?" "Mr. Minister, frontier workers with disabilities (recognized by the Black Virgin) do not receive special treatment in the Belgian-Luxembourg tax convention with regard to authorized telework days. A person with a significant disability (50% or more) who works full-time is obviously more quickly tired than another person, not to mention the daily pain. It seems to me necessary to allow these people to telework on a more regular basis and, above all, to grant them the possibility of providing part-days or shifts in the territory of the employing country. The aim is to help these people to work and remain independent as long as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u11	And if not ask you to negotiate these advances for people with disabilities during your next meeting on this subject with the authorities of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. [[What do you think?"]] "Mr Minister, the first questions I asked you about the telework of Belgian-Luxembourg frontier workers concerned the implementation of the agreement on 48 days of telework by remaining imposed in the State which provides employment (here in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg). Indeed, on 18 May 2019, the two Belgian and Luxembourg Prime Ministers, Charles Michel and Xavier Bettel, announced the good news of this 48-day agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u12	Can you explain to me the reasons why the administrations are not in favour of this development, when, both in terms of mobility and in terms of the environment, we need telework more than ever, which will allow us to reduce the number of vehicles on our roads and thus reduce pollution in a significant way?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u13	Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mr Verherstraeten are not present. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u14	Mr Arens, an extension of the agreements on covid-19 beyond June 2022 is not envisaged. The specific measures to combat the pandemic have almost all been abandoned in our country and in neighbouring countries. An extension of the agreements is therefore no longer justified. Telework remains possible without the covid-19 agreements being applicable, but the tax consequences are of course different. On the tax side, the State of residence also becomes the State of activity, meaning that wages, wages and other salaries relating to teleworking days become taxable in that State of residence. Remuneration for a few days worked in a third State on telework or for another reason is, in principle, also taxable in the State of residence of the taxpayer. In addition, exploratory talks are planned in the Benelux context on a structural regime for frontier workers working at home. Such an approach makes it possible, if necessary, to adopt a common position in discussions at international level, in particular in the OECD Working Group No. 1 responsible for drafting and adapting the OECD Model Convention and its comments. In addition, the OECD will shortly be carrying out a series of work on these new forms of work. Belgium will certainly take an active part in this. There is currently no clear picture of the timing of the discussion of this subject at OECD level. However, the OECD has already indicated that cross-border worker mobility is a priority debate in the coming years. The commitment of former Prime Minister Charles Michel and his Luxembourg colleague Xavier Bettel in 2019 was to start negotiations to revise the 24-day rule. That commitment was met in the summer of 2021. Negotiations were conducted and on 31 August 2021 the new avenant was signed extending the 24-day tolerance rule to 34 days. There's no 48 days left. The procedure for preparing the parliamentary approval of this avenant has not yet been completed. Moreover, it is always possible to telework for more than thirty-four days. Although the tax consequences are different, the mere fact that part of the income tax is paid in Belgium, instead of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, should not be seen as an impossibility of teleworking. Thousands of Belgian residents whose employers are based here work through telework and pay their taxes in full in Belgium. There is currently no prospect of starting negotiations in order to re-examine the agreement with Luxembourg. Finally, I should like to point out that the coordination of measures in the field of social security is not within my competence. For this I refer to the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u15	Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mr Verherstraeten are now present and will be able to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u16	Minister, thank you for your different answers. However, I would like to stress several facts. I have just heard from the media that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has extended these measures covid-19 until 31 December 2022. In addition, one of my three questions concerned frontier workers with disabilities. You answered me, by means of a written question of 24 August 2021, that specific measures in favour of these workers could be examined in the future. I ask you to continue along this path, which I believe is important for some people with disabilities. Finally, you mentioned 48 days of telework, not thirty-four. I therefore hope that we will arrive at 48 days with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the other border countries. It's very important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u17	Minister, it is rather difficult to reply. After all, all my questions for the last month are on this afternoon's agenda and I had to be in the room next door, in the Mobility Committee. However, what is most important to me is that I can more or less deduce from the replies just now that teleworking can still be carried out without any adverse tax consequences. There was 38 here, and 48 days is not clear to me. What I do think is important, however, is that a sort of administrative directive has been adopted on social security, which will further extend the neutralisation until the beginning of 2023. In the meantime (...) will be used to set up a real structural scheme. I heard you refer to OECD initiatives and other bilateral initiatives. I think that is the most important thing: teleworking cross-border workers must continue to be able to work telework. It's a new form of work that can't be imagined anymore. In the meantime, I know someone who, in consultation with his employer in the Netherlands, intends to quit his work this summer, simply because he can no longer work telework. Such situations, whether employers in the Netherlands or Belgium, must be avoided. That is why we in this House have adopted a resolution calling for a minimum solution, pending further investigation and a wider, structural solution. In any case, I am in favour of continuing to offer this minimum solution until 2023, so that people can continue to telework for one or two days in a reasonable way, pending a more structural solution adapted to the new teleworking and to the new forms of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u18	I suspect that many frontier workers were grateful to the government for the exceptional measures taken during the corona crisis, which were extended until 30 June. As far as social security is concerned, I believe that this exceptional arrangement will apply until 31 December. Of course, I would have preferred these two deadlines to have been aligned, but I understand, of course, that this is not so simple. I do think that Corona will change the concept of "place of employment" in the future. I hope for a structural solution in the shortest possible time. Of course, I agree with your suggestion that we should address this at Benelux level and have discussions about it. I therefore support them and hope that a solution can be found in the second half of the year. For example, there will be legal certainty for the thousands of people involved in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u19	Minister, thank you for the answer to my colleagues. We voted a resolution in the Federal Parliament but also in the Benelux Parliament. You say today that the OECD is taking up the matter. This is good news because one realizes, especially with the price of fuel, that the solution of teleworking is part of the solution. This is not the whole solution because employers also do not want their workers to be just teleworkers; they also want to see them. However, extending the number of days is probably a good idea. However, tax and social agreements will have to be reached. There is, of course, a way to be imaginative because methods and modulations are possible in the taxation or in the calculation of social contributions. We need to reason globally with most European countries at least, and even with the OECD, and try to find solutions. I hear you are willing to do that, and I encourage you to work in that direction. I would like to say a word on one of the points that have not been raised today. You confirmed that after 30 June, the authorised telework days (34 for Luxembourg) were indeed a complete quota for the last six months of the year. This is a favourable provision for frontier workers. The situation until 30 June and the 34 days for the last six months are nevertheless good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u20	Minister, the FPS Finance's new Infrastructure Horizon 2024 Plan announces numerous building closures and undermines community service. There will be only three or four buildings left per province. It is a centralisation to the extreme and, in a way, the death of the local service! This plan does not take into account many criteria: the digital divide, the specificities of each province, the accessibility and parking problems in major centres and stations, the carbon footprint of travel, the recurring computer and telephone problems at the FPS Finances. The consequences will be important not only for the public but also for some professionals who will have to travel more kilometres to a FPS Finance office. It turns out that in this plan, all provinces are affected by closures. As a representative of the province of Liège, you will allow me to dwell on the closure of Malmedy, which comes in addition to the deletions of the previous plan, namely Eupen and Huy. The specific situation in Malmedy and the surrounding communes will also result, for example, in the linguistic aspect and the situation of German-speaking citizens, who will once again be harmed by the closure of this office. Minister, do you confirm the implementation of the Infrastructure Plan of the FPS Finances in 2024? Do you intend to put in place alternatives to provide accessible and quality service to citizens? What are the reasons for this infrastructure plan? If this is a question of means, would it not be possible to group federal public services within the same building in several locations in the same province so as to reduce costs while keeping the proximity and accessibility of the different services? What will become of these buildings? Will they be reused or sold?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u21	Mr.Minister, after the legislature, it must be noted that public services suffer from a tendency towards centralization that strongly affects public servants and taxpayers. For if fewer state-run establishments, it means more savings, it also means more kilometres to travel for the population. For example, the CoFede union of the National Union of Public Services (UNSP) has come to the fore of a new infrastructure plan within the finance administration by 2024. In the name of the generalisation of telework, the development of digital channels or the decline in attendance, this plan is part of this continuity. A series of "small" centres such as Mouscron, La Louvière, Thuin and Ath would be abolished. Regardless of the increase in fuel prices or the difficulty of connecting two points in public transport, taxpayers will therefore be forced to travel longer distances to reach the competent official, and workers attached to their jurisdiction will also be subject to this obligation. Furthermore, while online services exist and can satisfy a portion of the population, we all know that a real digital divide affects an often disadvantaged public whose vulnerability is only increased. Among the cities mentioned in this new infrastructure plan, one of them attracts my particular attention: the city of Ath. The finance office is located in the heart of the city, a crossroads of public transport lines, an ideal location that provides access to the whole Green Country. Its closure is, for many inhabitants, a nonsense. Minister, do you confirm the closure of the finance office in the city of Ath by 2024? If so, how do you justify it? What is your opinion on the project, desired by my colleague Christophe Lacroix, to create 25 public spaces that could accommodate finance staff? If the closure is activated, where will the Athens taxpayers have to go in order to benefit from the public service they deserve? Finally, how does your administration intend to deal with the difficulties that taxpayers who do not have or know how to use digital equipment will face?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u22	Madam President, Minister, last February my colleague Malik Ben Achour was already concerned about rumours that the services of the FPS Finances de Malmedy would soon be closed as part of the new Horizon 2024 Plan. Your answer had, moreover, not been reassuring. This desire to put an end to the presence of the finance administration in Malmedy has since been made public, and the least we can say is that it causes incomprehension on the spot. It is perceived, both by the population and by the authorities, as an attack on rural life. I share this feeling, and I regret this objective of reducing accessibility to community-based public services. In the particular case of the Malmedian region, I must draw your attention to certain elements specific to the local context. First of all, there is the very wide geographical coverage provided by the services present in Malmedy, which is equivalent to the whole south-east quarter of the province of Liège. Secondly, this area is one of the least well-equipped in the country in terms of public transport. For several decades Malmedy has no longer been served by the train, nor has its neighbouring communes, and the bus lines are often incomplete, especially on the Malmedy-Spa and Malmedy-Eupen routes. I would like above all to point out that Waimes and Malmedy are French-speaking communes where the system of language facilities for the German-speaking Community applies. These populations must be able to continue to travel to a place where they can choose to speak in French or German. Minister, has there been any contact with the Malmedy and Waimes schools? How do you respond to the concerns of the latter, as well as those of workers, users and the general population? How will the linguistic specificity of Malmedy and Waimes be taken into account? Are you considering going back to this closure decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u23	Madam President, Mrs Bonaventure, the implementation of the Infrastructure Horizon 2024 Plan of the FPS Finances is indeed confirmed. The FPS Finances has been playing the digitalization map for some time now. A team within the FPS is responsible for dealing with clients and how best to assist them. Following the health crisis, our visitors were pushed to make an appointment online and by telephone since physical reception was impossible. Since the easing of the measures, the offices have been reopened. They are therefore again accessible to visitors by appointment. In this way, visitors who are not sufficiently familiar with the Internet or for whom the telephone service is not enough can always visit us physically by appointment. Visitors who arrive without an appointment are directed to digital channels. Efforts are also being made to sensitize these people to contact our services online or by telephone. Finally, a virtual agent pilot project is under way in Liège and Antwerp. From a terminal located, for example, in a communal administration, it will be possible for citizens to contact directly a staff member of the FPS Finances. The main reason for this infrastructure plan is the occupancy of the buildings. Because of the health crisis, telework has become a reality. Our daily figures show that since the return to normality, occupation has been limited to a maximum of 33%. The result is a strong underutilization of our premises. Given the high price of energy, rents, maintenance costs, etc., the budgetary impact is significant. Madame Chanson, by extension, the lease of the Malmedy building expires on 27 December and will not be renewed. As for the building at Ath, Mr. Prévot, the lease expires in 2024. My administration is open to requests for temporary presence, where there is real potential for reception, as well as a sufficient number of citizens justifying the presence of an official on the spot for one or more days a month. FPS Finance is requesting that offices be shared with other FPS, in the form of satellite offices. The Régie des Bâtiments is responsible for the accommodation of all federal governments and therefore has an overview of the needs of all their clients. The buildings will be released by the FPS Finances and handed over to the Régie, which alone has the power to decide whether to accommodate other occupants, terminate or renew the lease or, in the case of Crown property, resell the property.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u24	Your answer, Minister, is quite astounding if it is read in the light of the one you made earlier about telephone contacts between the administration and the citizen. At the same time, it's very complicated over the phone, but in addition, it's not possible either physically. This is completely absurd! I understand the energy savings you make in the buildings, but do you count on the non-savings that citizens will have to suffer when they move to other buildings farther away to get information? It's really the end of proximity, the end of public service. We're still talking about yellow vests in France. It started the same way. It is this disparity that exists between rural and more urban areas. We don't know how to access the energy transition because we have to take our car to work or go to a public service. It is an unequal treatment of citizens before the administration. It's a total nonsense! Indeed, there is more telework, but there is also a way to organize themselves so that everyone ensures a permanence at the level of services and that the citizen can go there in a close manner. It's a total nonsense! It is always in this sense that this is happening. It is astonished when people get tired of all these measures that constantly penalize them and keep them away from politics. It is astonished after a rise in extremes and a series of revolts in the population. I really regret this decision, whether it's in Malmedy or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do indeed hear the generalisation of structural telework. I also mean de facto this underutilization of buildings, which obviously represents a significant cost. I know our situation and the need to save money. However, it is a pity that these savings are systematically made on the backs of those who face the most difficulties. Sometimes it is difficult to use the digital tool. Sometimes these people live in somewhat remote areas. I was talking to you about the concrete example of Ath, but I hear that La Louvière, Thuin or Mouscron to speak only about the province that I know best, Hainaut, should also know about the abolition of services. You didn't answer one of my questions. How does your administration plan to deal with the challenges facing taxpayers who do not have digital equipment or who do not know how to use it tomorrow? This is really an important concern of the citizens. I was still in debate last night and this subject came back very regularly. People feel that they are always paying more but that they still have fewer services, whether at the level of banking services or at the level of our administrations. As a major advocate of public services, I believe that we must be able to provide these services to the general public. I hear your answers, but I sincerely hope that with the government, you will be committed to ensuring a true service to the people, who are sick of it! She would like to be able to benefit from the minimum services which are no longer guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u26	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will pass on to my colleague Malik Ben Achour. I imagine that he will be very disappointed as I am; I think that the people of Mali will share our reaction. I also think that the public and the authorities might perceive this as vexatious. It turns out that the SPF Finances is housed in the former building of Governor Baltia who was then entrusted by the Belgian State with securing the new territories coming from Germany following the Treaty of Versailles. The federal government's abandonment of this building, the seat of the first Belgian authority in the region, is therefore symbolically very heavy for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u27	Minister, you talked about the experiences with virtual FPS Finance agents. Sometimes I feel like I have a virtual minister in front of me, because there is really no listening to people's problems. The question of telephones at the FPS Finances was raised with Ms Matz who made the link earlier. Obviously, users are bothered when they want to contact by telephone. In the face of it, it will be the same problem because most buildings are closed. So we're really destroying the local public service. I take the example of my region, the Central Region. We focused everything on La Louvière, at one time. The Central Region is still a quarter of a million inhabitants. And today the building of La Louvière is closed. It is incomprehensible and precisely, the municipal council of La Louvière has produced a motion at the initiative of the PTB to maintain the building. There was a large majority on this motion, which must have come to you. I hope you hear the messages sent to you by the local authorities who relay the citizen. In addition, there is also the problem of transferring the burden on CPS workers, especially in view of the ridiculous benefits they receive for telework, which are significantly lower than the benefits paid in the private sector. This means that it is actually impossible for FPS Finance officers to go to work in the building, for the sake of the simple reason that there is no more room! In other words, they are sent home because it is cheaper to charge them rent, heating, computers, etc. So you can easily save money by transferring the burden on public servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u28	Madam President, I would just like to respond, because I am amazed by the spectacle we have just seen in committee because of two members of the PS, who have already left. The PS dominates the government on the one hand, but on the other, it learns and opposes the decisions of the same government on the other. I find this split way of conducting politics very strange and think that only the PS can do so in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u29	Mr Donné will leave us at the end of this month. Mr Loones will defend the interplay in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u30	Minister, my first and only interplay in a committee is for you. The reason for this is a written question that I submitted on 1 April 2022 in connection with the FBI checks on withholding tax in the X/N system. That may sound a bit complex, but the X/N system is simply a system of exemption or non-freedom from withholding tax on certain securities, especially in respect of a particular category of rightholders. These beneficiaries include municipal authorities, municipalities, provinces, educational institutions and banks. That's important for the sequel to my story. In that answer to my question, you confirmed on the one hand that the BBI checks are carried out at municipal authorities, municipalities, provinces, educational institutions, banks, an advisory centre and two natural persons. You also confirmed that a total of 23 files were started and that 12 were handled without results. To my question, how many attacks have already been committed and contested, you replied that there are no attacks at present and there are therefore no disputes yet. Your answer and the intervention of the BBI in these files have surprised me on three points and I find three points problematic. On the one hand, there is the truth or reality of the information you have provided, on the other hand, there is the legality of the action of the BBI and, on the other hand, the opportunity for the BBI to act. On the first point, the answer surprises us. We are aware of a number of attacks and notifications which date not only from the date on which I received a reply to my written question, but even from before the date on which the question was submitted. So if you say that there are no attacks yet, I can only conclude that this information is not correct. I know you, from the time I worked with you, as an integrity and correct person. So I can only conclude that you were misinformed by your administration, so you have received wrong input to answer the question. You may be able to give me more information on this later. On the second point, the BBI checks themselves surprise us, too, for two reasons. The first relates to the fact that, in our view, the levying of withholding tax on these files is wrong and not in accordance with the law. The post-taxation of that withholding tax on legal persons has been payable since 1997 in so far as a withholding tax is payable in accordance with the laws and regulations in force and the movable income has been obtained without any deduction or payment of withholding tax. That regime of 1997 changed the system of 1993 and in March 2019 the rest of the government tried, through a legislative proposal, to get back to the system as it existed in 1993. At the time of that bill, for which the rest of the government had no majority, we stopped this intention to go back to the 1993 system, because this would have meant a significant tax increase for many local authorities investing liquidity in Treasury certificates or OLOs. Partly by directing our group, the bill finally amended the draft Article 262 of the WIB in order to bring the text back into line with the 1997 legal text and to make it clear that the transferee is only liable to the withholding tax on Belgian movable income, in so far as no withholding tax was unduly withheld in accordance with the legislation in force. It is quite clear to us that in this respect the BBI has ignored the will of the legislator from 2019 and continues to ignore when it makes a subsequent recovery of that withholding tax in such files. The action of the BBI is not only problematic for reasons of legality but also for reasons of opportunity. I do ask myself questions about the opportunity of BBI checks at municipalities, provinces, school boards, municipalities, provinces, school boards, autonomous municipal companies and hospitals. The BBI was set up to fight organized tax evasion. I do not believe that the aforementioned entities should be set up for the purpose of organised tax evasion. If fraud occurs, it is because of those who control these entities, but not because of the fraudulent enrichment of the entities themselves. How many attacks and what amounts of withholding tax were actually made until 12 May last, the date on which I received your reply, by regional management of the BBI actually established following the X/N controls in the public sector? How many of these attacks and what amounts are definitively established or contested? Why does the BBI ignore the explicit desire of the legislator in 1997 and 2019 that the recipient of that income is not liable for withholding tax? Under what criteria does the control of territorial authorities, school boards, hospitals, etc. correspond to organised tax evasion? Why can the inspection services of general administration tax (AAF) not carry out such checks on the X/N system?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u31	Mr Donné, the reason why the figures could not be communicated in response to your written question is that they have not yet been included in the application by which the BBI succeeds its results. This presupposes a manual action, which means that there is a delay in reporting. This has now been done and a detailed list of the collections will be made available until 10 May 2022. The reply to the number of disputes does not change on the date of 31 May 2022. Moreover, it can be stated that the majority of these assessments are based on the agreement of the taxable person. My administration does what it can to answer questions about figures in good time, but I am asking for some understanding of the delay resulting from a necessary and complex search. With regard to your other questions, I confirm that my administration applies the law, in accordance with Article 267 of the WIB '92, which states that the granting or validation of income, in cash or in kind, entails the payment of the withholding tax. Under the X/N settlement system, the National Bank of Belgium, as the administrator of the scheme, is designated as the debtor of the withholding tax. Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 26 May 1994 lists the category of persons for whom the collection of the RV is waived pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 16 of the Law of 6 August 1993. However, if the recipient of income is subject to the legal person tax, account must be taken of Article 262 §1 WIB '92, on the basis of which the taxable person himself can be designated as the debtor of the RV. The indirect reason for the checks carried out is the international commotion following the so-called CumEx-Files and CumCum-Files and concerns about possible shortcomings in the control system on withholding tax. Similarly, the settlement system introduced in respect of transactions involving certain securities of 6 August 1993 was examined. The BBI has not limited itself to the obligation on RV, but has also reviewed compliance with reporting obligations and consolidation of the information provided. It has been shown that the law is not always applied consistently. Towards the future, this will be further followed by the services of the AAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u32	Minister, as far as the delay in reporting is concerned, I will take your word for it. With regard to your comment that there is always the agreement of the taxpayer when the tax is levied, I wonder who has enough knowledge of this matter from the local authorities. It is already so technical and difficult that we cannot get out of this ourselves and that we all stick to our point of view. Not to mention that a taxpayer could get rid of that, which could get the BBI to come to the door. I have already said on several occasions that the position of the tax authorities, and certainly those of the BBI, should not be underestimated when knocking on the door of an ordinary taxpayer who has nothing to do with organized fraud. You always think that this is legally very woolly, but the rights of the taxpayer in the context of an administrative procedure are very important and under the flag of the fight against organized fraud not everything can be explained. With the agreement of the taxpayer, therefore, I do not find a good argument in this. You also said with regard to those territorial authorities, those local authorities, that these CumEx-Files and CumCum-Files are the indirect cause. I do not think that is an adequate explanation why such taxpayers cannot simply be visited and controlled by the general administration of taxation and why the BBI should be put on it. I believe that the BBI has enough other work or could carry out other activities that are much more useful and would contribute much more to the sense of fiscal justice than what it is doing regularly now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u33	I have received a motion of recommendation from Mr Loones and a simple motion from Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u34	Madam President, I have heard the Minister's reply and I think that we can proceed to the order of business. However, I would like to thank Mr Donné for his parliamentary work and, above all, for his respectful parliamentary actions, both to the majority and to others. I wish him well on behalf of our group in his new career.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u35	I would also like to endorse that message, but I hope that he will still be here tomorrow to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u36	I'll be there for a while tomorrow, but not all day. I've got a couple of double bookings. I am very bad at saying goodbye, but it was also an honor for me to be on this committee. The Finance Committee is certainly the place where it happens. I've worked well with all of you. It was often frustrating, so does the Minister. On this side it is sometimes a little more frustrating than on your side, but I still have good memories of cooperation. But it's never a definite goodbye. You never know. [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u37	The President: The following motions were tabled at the end of the discussion: In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Sander Loones and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard Mr Joy Donné's speech and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, - having regard to Article 101 of the Constitution by which the Minister is responsible to the Chamber of Representatives; - having regard to the political control exercised by the Chamber, the members must be able to obtain information on all aspects of government policy and the functioning of the administration; - having regard to Article 262 Wl892, as amended by Article 17 of the Law of 28 April 2019 on various tax provisions and amending Article 1 (1) (b) of the Law of 5 April 1955 and Opinion No. 64.323/2-3 of 4 January 2019 of the Council of State; - having regard to the BBI's mission to combat organised tax evasion, asks the government - take charge of your administration in order to properly inform the members of the Chamber; - exempt the income in the X/N system of the entity forming part of the general government sector in the ESA 2010 from the withholding tax as envisaged by the legislator in 1997 and 2019; - to have the BBI carry out checks which meet the criteria of organised tax evasion.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Sander Loones and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Joy Donné and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, - having regard to article 101 of the Constitution, which provides that the Minister shall be responsible to the House of Representatives; - in view of the political control exercised by the House, which implies that members may obtain information on all aspects of government policy and on the functioning of the administration; - having regard to Article 262 of CIR92, as amended by Article 17 of the Law of 28 April 2019 on various tax provisions and amending Article 1, § 1ter of the Law of 5 April 1955 and Opinion No 64 323/2-3 of 4 January 2009 of the Council of State; - having regard to the mission of the ISI to combat organised tax fraud; asks the Minister - to question its administration in order to ensure that the members of the Chamber are properly informed; - exempt the income in the X/N system of the entity forming part of the general government sector of the ESA 2010, as envisaged by the legislator in 1997 and 2019, from the withholding tax; - to ensure that the ISI carries out checks that meet the criteria of organised tax fraud." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Servais Verherstraeten. The motion will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motion will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u38	Minister, I raised a hare in the discussion of what became the law of March 17, 2022. You presented this law as being in favour of the taxation of unemployment benefits except that some of the beneficiaries who were not taxed became taxed from fiscal year 2023. You finally committed yourself to correcting this perverse effect. A bill has been submitted to us in committee and will arrive in plenary. However, the correction applies only to fiscal year 2024, since, from fiscal year 2024, the additional deduction will decrease by 20% each year. So, five years later, we will find ourselves in the situation that had to be corrected. Minister, you have kept your commitment for only one year. So I think there is a problem. You justify this non-correction by the fact that discrimination must be eliminated. Finally, in the name of eliminating discrimination, you are levelling down: everyone will pay tax, even those who did not previously pay it. I find it incomprehensible first of all to act in this way and then that a taxpayer, whatever his or her type of income, is subject to tax from a gross income of EUR 16,000 per year, which amounts to a gross income of EUR 1 340 per month. How do you justify starting to pay tax with such a monthly income? For me, it's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u39	Mr Van Hees, you have already raised the issue. So here's my answer. During the discussion of various draft tax provisions at the committee meeting on Wednesday, 15 June, you were able to take note of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u40	Indeed, your answer was very brief. It shall give an answer to the procedure. That is how you responded to my objection to the law of 17 March 2022! But you didn't give any substantive answers. The substance concerns the fact that, in the name of discrimination, you tax income allowances of 1,340 euros gross per month. Excuse me, but who can understand that? Ask anyone, it is incomprehensible that with a gross amount already insufficient to live, you have to pay tax! You don't answer that! That is really the problem, Minister. I will come back not only to the plenary next Thursday, but also very often, because this country has a big tax problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u41	Madam President, Minister, you have now answered my question in the context of the discussion of the draft law on various tax provisions. So my question for me can be considered answered. I do not need you to answer my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u43	The Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u44	Mr Minister, on 21 April 2022, the Court of Cassation made it clear that Anti-Gounellen is increasingly undermining the legal protection of citizens. In the present case, the BBI had requested an authorisation from the police judge, but the latter had apparently failed to justify his authorisation legally. We have to note that the police judge is not the most appropriate magistrate to take on an authorisation to visit a property by the tax inspector. The investigating judge is, inter alia, given his experience as a research magistraat, more likely to consider the constitutionally protected rights, including the protection of the home, and the need for the administration to carry out its audit tasks. That finding was already made in 2008 following the introduction of the Social Criminal Code. The authorisation by the police judge was replaced by an authorisation from an investigating judge. In 2013, for the same reason, the investigating judge was empowered to authorise a visitation of a residence by the Economic Inspectorate. The tax authorities still have to turn to the police judge to enter a residence, while the judgment in cassation confirms that he is not the most appropriate judge to do so. The property should be better protected against the action of the tax inspection on the basis of an unlawfully motivated authorisation of a police judge. I have the following questions. Should the protection of the home and therefore private life not be taken more seriously, especially in the event of unlawful or irregular action by the tax inspection? Should a breach of a property by the tax inspection on the basis of an unlawful authorisation not be sanctioned in the same way as an entry without authorisation? After all, what is the difference between no authorisation or a blank authorisation? Does the granting of a visit to a home by a different competent court not make it difficult to cooperate between tax, social and economic inspections? How do you feel about the fact that the tax inspection should turn to the investigating judge instead of the police judge for the visitation of a residence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u45	Mr Donné, with regard to the judgment to which you refer, the Tax Inspectorate has followed the statutory procedure and requested and obtained authorisation on the basis of clear and concrete information on possible serious irregularities or fraud. In addition, the persons concerned were also convicted of the facts that came to light in this file. Any public interference in the right to respect for private and residential life must be laid down in a sufficiently precise legal provision, must meet an imperative social need and be proportionate to the legitimate objective pursued. This is the case for a home visit, as the law provides for a double judicial check, prior to the police judge, and subsequently by the tax judge. There is a difference between a lack of authorisation, which was not the case here, and an authorisation that was not adequately justified. In accordance with the judgment of the Court of First Instance cited above, the use by the administration of unlawfully obtained evidence must be assessed in the light of the principles of good administration and the right to a fair trial. Except where the legislator provides for special sanctions in this respect, the use of unlawfully obtained evidence in tax matters may be prevented only if the means of proof have been obtained in a way which is so much contrary to what can be expected from a properly acting authority that such use should be considered inadmissible in all circumstances, or if such use jeopardises the taxable person's right to a fair trial. As has been said, it is the tax court that has to weigh the importance. The Court may take into account, inter alia, one or more of the following circumstances: the purely formal nature of the irregularity; its limited impact on the right or freedom protected by the breach of the standard; the non-intentional nature of the unlawfulness in question; and the fact that the seriousness of the infringement outweighs the unlawfulness committed. A transfer of the power of authorisation from a police judge to an investigative judge could wrongly give the impression that a tax control would be the nature of a judicial investigation. Given the purely administrative investigative and control powers of my administration, the allocation of the power of authorisation seems to be considered by the police judge, all the more so since the police judge has other powers in the administrative sphere. In addition, the police judge is not only competent in tax matters relating to admission to visitations in private homes, heirs and premises, but this competence is also conferred on the police judge with regard, inter alia, to spatial planning and licensing law. The assessment of such an application for authorisation may not be beneficial if that power is now fragmented. Your reference and comparison with the fight against social fraud, in which there is direct cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and the Social Inspectorate, suggests that you are setting this as an example for the fight against tax fraud. This requires, of course, a broader analysis and discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u46	Minister, I am still convinced that an investigating judge is the more appropriate judge to consider constitutionally protected rights. The Fiscal, Social and Economic Inspectorate must now appeal to different judges. In our view, all this should end up with the investigating judge, who is most responsible for the correct and accurate balancing of these different constitutionally protected rights. So we do have a difference of opinion there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u47	Mr Minister, earlier this year I asked you a few questions about the control of arms transit in Belgium. One of the challenges is cooperation between regional licensing services and customs. You replied to me that there is a need for better, formalised cooperation between the services concerned. To achieve this, a working group was established in the past, but the most recent meeting took place in 2017 and was not followed up. The legislation on arms transit varies from region to region. This makes customs control difficult, but it should not be an excuse for a lack of control. Now that many European countries have sent weapons to Ukraine, the risk of illegal arms trafficking on European territory has increased. It is a very important incentive to improve its own control capacity. Do you think that the regions should harmonise legislation on the transit of arms in order to find a solution? Can the federal level play a coordinating role in this? Have there been any discussions on this? The focus on strategic goods is one of the priorities in the strategic policy areas of the General Administration. You indicated that the customs administration would use formal cooperation with the export control services. Have any concrete steps been taken on this matter today? The latest formal cooperation dates back to 2017. Following the meeting of the working group, the competent regional authorities would develop a joint initiative vis-à-vis the federal level to settle this politically. You said in January that you did not know what follow-up was given. Do you have any more insight into what went wrong today? How will you ensure that the new formal cooperation will lead to results? War increases the arms trade, both legally and illegally. This time this will be the case on European territory. What additional efforts has customs made today in view of the changed security situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u48	Since the regionalisation of the Arms Act of 5 August 1991, each of the three regions has been responsible for the development of a legal framework for the import, export and transit of military goods. In this legislation, the regions have developed their own priorities, such as permit requirements for transit without transhipment. The uniformisation of permit requirements in transit without transhipment would not facilitate the control by the General Customs Administration and Excise Administration or AADA of these movements. Shipments in transit without transhipment are not legally required to report to the customs authorities, which makes it particularly difficult to control them. The customs authorities will therefore continue to be dependent on the direction of the competent authorities concerned for the control of those consignments. I am not aware of any discussions that might have already taken place on the harmonization of regional legislation. Recently, the first steps have been taken to establish and validate the cooperation in the field of transit control between the AADA and the Control Strategic Goods of the Flemish government in a protocol. Finally, the AADA does not have a view of intra-Community movements of goods between Member States, as these are not subject to customs formalities, and focuses a large part of its capacity on controls on extra-Community movements. The control of strategic goods is part of this and implements recent global developments. Due to the current situation, there is extensive direct cooperation with the competent authorities in specific files.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u49	You remain somewhat vague in your answer. After all, the problem has been discussed before. It was then that it became apparent that the cooperation between Customs and the licensing services, for which the regions are responsible, was difficult. The war today has suddenly made the problem more urgent and more important. This is, of course, an opportunity to put the issue on the agenda and to get priority attention to it, including in the regions. Hopefully this will be done, the procedures will be examined around this and sufficient attention will be paid to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u50	Mr Vermeersch, members of my policy cell indeed took part in the discussion with the non-profit sector following the event at the beginning of May. In that sense, the presence of my policy cell was rather technical and supportive. After all, I am aware of the consequences of the international crisis in various areas. That is why, after this consultation, my policy cell has been involved in the reform of the mileage allowance as developed by Mr De Sutter's policy cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u52	In the framework of the Common Reporting Standard (CRS), Turkey has communicated financial information for the year 2019 to the FPS Finance Agency. The information relates to the accounts of Belgian residents held or audited by Turkish financial institutions. The Belgian administration now has the names of the account holders, the balances and the income, such as interest rates, dividends and capital gains, as well as payments under life and capital insurance and pension contracts. The tax authorities sent the account holders a request for information, the 332 document. It also asks whether they own real estate in Turkey. Mr Minister, since you have so far refused to answer my questions, I am making another attempt. In your answer to my parliamentary question No. 954 of 22 March 2022, as Minister, you refused to provide general information on the exchange of financial information. How many Belgian residents had a bank account in Turkey in 2019? In a parliamentary democracy such a general question should be able to be answered. How many bank accounts did these people have in Turkey in 2019? How many bank accounts were spontaneously reported by the account holders before the request for information was sent? What are the sanctions for not giving up bank accounts in Turkey in 2019? What fines and tax increases does your administration provide for? How many immovable property were declared by the holders of those accounts after sending the request for information? Will the FPS Finance provide data on these real estate to the regional administrations, so that they can check whether the persons concerned enjoy a social housing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u53	As part of the CRS exchanges, Turkey has indeed communicated financial information for the year 2019 to the FPS Finance. The information received by my administration from abroad as a result of the international exchange of information, together with the static information, is subject to legal provisions on confidentiality and data security. For this reason, the information requested in relation to the exchange of information cannot be communicated publicly. The failure to mention the existence of an external account in the declaration is indeed an offence. A fine may therefore be imposed for this. If it appears that the non-reporting of the existence of an external account is accompanied by the incorrect non-declaration of movable income, the administration will in principle apply a tax increase to the tax payable on the non-reported income. Both the amount of the fine and the percentage of that increase are subject to the respective rules laid down in the Royal Decree. In this way, the information shall be included in the declaration of the taxable person concerned who will be able to consult the authorised services. For the rest, my administration does not have the data to answer other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u54	Minister, it is difficult for me to thank you for your answer, because a simple question, such as the one I asked, namely how many Belgian residents had a bank account in Turkey in 2019, is not being answered. This does not violate the privacy of the data subjects; it is a general question of a figure and it is therefore unacceptable that such a question should not be answered. That is unworthy of a parliament. It is frustrating to sit in a parliament when ordinary general questions cannot be answered. I therefore deeply regret, Minister, that you do not provide the general information either in writing or orally to the public. As Members of Parliament, it is our job to control the government and to ask general policy questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u55	Mr Donné is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u56	On radio channel Bel RTL, the MR-president pulled out the tax plans of the Minister of Finance. According to the MR President, "a bank robber in Belgium has more rights than a taxpayer." The fact that the administration can also use illegally obtained evidence means for the MR chairman "that the tax authority will become a new Stasi." I quote him one last time: 'We are popping up small self-employed and SMEs, while at the same time avoiding major international tax evasion.' First of all, business newspapers De Tijd and L'Echo mentioned earlier that the limitation period for certain tax files is extended from three to ten years. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that? When will the bill be submitted to Parliament? Secondly, in a brief response, the Minister's cabinet already indicated that all government parties have approved the fiscal plans of the Minister of Finance, but after the MR, the Open Vld now also opposes these tax plans. What is it now? Was there or was not an agreement within the government? Thirdly, the Minister of Finance's bill would go beyond the April agreements, the Liberals say. Is that right? Is the bill going to be effective? Fourthly, the MR is proposing to put an end to the Anti-Conflict in tax matters. What is the position of the Minister of Finance? Does the Minister consider it desirable to bring a legal end to this anti-God-injury?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u57	A draft law implementing the decisions of the Ministerial Committee is currently under discussion in the government. It does indeed provide for a maximum time limit of 10 years for investigations and attacks in some cases. As the discussions are still under way, you will understand that at the moment I cannot specify exactly when the draft will be submitted to Parliament. The decision provides that a concept must be further defined in the working group. Logically, a draft definition in accordance with that decision has been submitted for discussion to the working group, within which the technical discussion has been continued. Anti-conflict does not only exist in tax law, but also in various other branches of law and actually involves a kind of proportionality test, so that substantive tax law is not dominated by formalism. Of course, criteria are also maintained when assessing whether illegally obtained evidence may be used. This includes the purely formal nature of an irregularity, whether it is not intentional, the seriousness of the infringement and the effect of the unlawfulness on the right, thereby protecting the standard. In other words, the Antigoon doctrine is a useful touchstone in a fiscal procedure in order to achieve a fair and proportionate result. Moreover, since that case-law was the subject of a transposition into the previous title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it does not seem appropriate at the present time to put an end to that case-law in tax matters, particularly as it would apply only to the purely administrative part but not to the criminal part, which would entail the introduction of discrimination. By introducing this derogation, discrimination would be achieved which is not appropriate, except in order to weaken the fight against tax fraud. I also have the answer to Mr Donné's question. Mr Donné, in reply to your question, I would like to refer in addition to the discussions during the exchange of views on Panama and other recommendations of 24 May 2022. For horizontal supervision, eight groups of companies are currently part of the Cooperative Tax Compliance Programme, one of which has signed the gentlemen's agreement and is a full member. At the end of 2021-beginning 2022, a survey was carried out that measured the knowledge, impression, opinions, experiences and expectations of the Co-operative Tax Compliance Programme. The respondents have a positive picture of the CTCP on the various questions. All scores per category exceed the neutral value of four on a scale of one to seven. Trust, cooperation and transparency are the associations that the respondents make. They also claim that it is an intensive process that takes a lot of time. My administration continues to focus on communication about the CTCP, both internally and externally, as well as on increasing its efficiency and effectiveness. Within the General Administration of Taxation, the Internal Inspection Cell deals with internal and external complaints with possible deontological infringements. This may include unauthorised control practices, to which you refer. This cell shall be an independent service, which shall be directly responsible to the administrator-general and shall report to him. The investigation by the Internal Inspection Cell is an administrative report à charge et à décharge. Upon completion of the investigation, the report shall be forwarded to the disciplinary authority, which shall decide on an appropriate follow-up and sanctions. Such an investigation could lead to both disciplinary and criminal consequences. For 2021, the Internal Inspection Cell dealt with 75 external complaints, of which only some related to complaints about suspected integrity violations during the audit assignments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u58	Minister, you are not going to answer my clear question as to whether or not there was an agreement within the government and you are referring to technical working groups that still have to work out everything. So I understand that this will be reviewed within the government and that the soup will be eaten less hot than it was served. The texts of the fraud plan, which some of your coalition partners received, said that the concept of complex declaration still had to be defined, but that it would be mainly about cross-border activities. One does not necessarily file a complex declaration because one has international activities. I myself have been internationally active with an enterprise. If I were to have tax questions about ten years ago today, I would also find it extremely difficult to answer them all to the point. It is particularly difficult to obtain the necessary data after a very long period of time, which is ten years, especially if we operate internationally with different partners and companies worldwide. We, therefore, are certainly not in favour of the longer research periods. In view of the rights of the defence, it must also be possible for an entrepreneur to collect the necessary information in a sound manner and to be able to answer to the tax authorities in relation to any question that would be asked. So I can get into the criticism of the Liberals, among others. Another problem is indeed that the real big fraudsters too often escape. We also see this in Parliament with the different types of congestion on tax havens that have already passed here. Thank you for your answer. We'll follow up on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u59	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u60	Several political groups, including Flemish Interest, asked the Minister of Finance about fiscal reform during Question Time. Ministry antwoordde: 'Preparatory analyses are still under way. I am still waiting for the opinion of the coordinator, that of the Finance Council and that of my administration, to whom I have asked to clarify and elaborate on certain technical points.'
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u61	Mr Minister, on 12 May, you responded in the plenary of the House to Members' questions about the leaks of the document prepared by the President of the Supreme Council of Finance concerning the tax reform contained in the government agreement. Rather, I would say "whose preparation is included in the government agreement". The problem is that your answers raise more questions than they answer questions. First on the method. In addition to the calendar, a recent statement by environmental deputy prime minister Georges Gilkinet joined the statement of the PS leaders questioning the implementation of the tax reform under this legislature. According to them, the government agreement refers only to the preparation of the tax reform and not to its actual implementation. Then, on the content. Indeed, you have distanced yourself from the document in question, but without recusing any of its tracks. In your response to the plenary session, apart from a vague statement on a balanced and fair reform, you mention only one avenue, namely the increase in net income for those who work. But let us remember that it was also the leitmotiv of the Michel government and that this had led to a tax shift particularly antisocial! It should also be remembered that a CEO who works for five million euros a year or a household worker who works for twice nothing, it is not the same. Will you file your tax reform proposal by June, July at the latest, as you told the newspaper Le Soir? Let me remind you that today is June 28th. Will it be a real successful tax reform project or just a few vague avenues? Does your attention to the net income of those who work mean that pensioners, who contribute a quarter to the tax revenues of natural persons, will again be the victims of the reform, as they were in the tax shift? Are further increases in anti-social taxes on consumption, VAT or excise duty, expected? Finally, five of the seven parties of La Vivaldi – including yours – defend a tax on big fortunes. A recent study shows that in Belgium, the percentage of the richest citizens has a heritage equivalent to the three-quarters of the poorest population. Does your reform project intend to tax this gigantic heritage of 660 billion euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u62	Madam President, many preliminary analyses have been completed. On 5 July the FPS Finance will organise a study day on which the various reports will be presented. I will, of course, go over the various recommendations and take them with me. In any case, you can count on me to announce my blueprint shortly. The government agreement provides for the development of a comprehensive tax reform. You know that I am very ambitious in this regard. Therefore, I will do my utmost to carry out this task. The coalition agreement provides for a tax shift, with the aim of reducing the burden on labour. Account will be taken of the reasonable payback effects. It is from that premise that I continue my work. When we talk about a coherent tax reform, it means that attention must also be paid to the need for redistribution, which is one of the foundations of good taxation. A practical application is the principle of contributory capacity. The aim is not to target the greatest fortunes but to ensure that everyone contributes correctly according to their financial capacity. As has already been mentioned, the implementation of the reform is a reduction in the burden on labour, which, in my view, is by definition beneficial to the working class.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u63	Minister, in the course of last year you said that the blueprint could be expected at the end of that year. In your replies to later oral questions, you said that this blueprint would be ready in the last quarter of 2021. Even later, you said we could expect it for the summer. Meanwhile, there is only a study day for the summer. In the meantime, you have become smarter and you have announced that your blueprint will be ready soon. So that could be anytime, 2023 or so, and maybe it won't even be there if the government falls. 'Soon' has indeed become the new 'without delay'. Madam President, will the work of the committee be aligned with the study day? That way we and the Minister can be there. Maybe he'll find out what the plans are there. [[smile]] We will, of course, continue to follow up on this issue. We can joke about it, but in the meantime it has become clear that a thorough tax reform will certainly not take place during this legislature. After all, it was torpedoed by both the PS and the MR. Even that blueprint, putting a plan on paper, has apparently already become explosive matter for this government. We are particularly curious about how things are going with this theme and we will try to be present on the day of study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u64	Minister, you are impressive! On July 5, you will organize a day of study and present the tax reform in June or July. You have an extraordinary ability to make things happen. Let me still be sceptical about the promise you made to come in June-July with your tax reform! Apart from the vain statements and always the same formulas relating to the burden on work, we have still not had any element of content. On the other hand, we know what is not going to happen in this tax reform. Today, I think that is the only answer that is worthy of interest. The goal is not to aim for the greatest fortunes. That's what you said explicitly. I'll take note of that. On 1 May, the press had shown that five of the seven parties in La Vivaldi wanted to target big fortunes. However, you are telling us that this will not be included in this tax reform project. If it is not in this tax reform, I do not see where else it will be. I'll take note of that. Taxing workers, yes! But not tax big fortunes!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u65	Minister, in the budget format table for 2022 there is a reform of the RSZ contributions for sportsmen and women, including the limited deductibility of real estate wages, in accordance with the FIFA scheme, amounting to EUR 43 million. In the budgetary notifications of 20 October 2021, there is a reform of RSZ employers' and employees' contributions from paid sportsmen and women for an annual amount of EUR 30 million and a reform of the deduction of professional costs on brokers' commissions and other tax measures to combat abuse, for an annual amount of EUR 13 million. Together, this amounts to EUR 43 million. The Pro League believes that the new rules on social security and taxation mean that they will have to pay EUR 51 million more to the government. That is a lot more than the EUR 43 million that the government would initially collect from all sports sectors. "Then the announced tax reform is not even complete," Het Nieuwsblad reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u66	The calculation of the Pro League is in my question. I won't make it here again. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm the calculations of the Pro League? If not, what do you think are the correct amounts? What is the difference between the budget target of EUR 43 million and the Pro League calculations of EUR 51 million? Are you prepared to continue with the Pro League? Is the government's intention to obtain the proposed EUR 43 million from the top football team or do you want to make much more use of this legislature? Will there also be a reform of the corporate tax on top football? If so, how much will it yield?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u67	As far as your question on social security is concerned, I would refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs. As far as revenue from the tax measures is concerned, they have been estimated at EUR 13 million in total. The new rules on exemption from withholding tax amount to EUR 6.7 million. The individual rate of 33% for athletes aged 23-25 years instead of 16.5 % is 2 million euros and the deduction limit for brokers' wages is 4.3 million euros. We've been in consultation with the Pro League for a long time. I am certainly prepared to continue this discussion. I expect that this willingness will also exist in the Pro League after the appointment of Mr Lorin Parys as the new CEO. Indeed, it is still my intention to further reform the exemption from the transfer of withholding tax for sportsmen and women. At the moment, I do not intend to set a certain rate of return on this, but to make sure that this advantage is used more to finance youth training and investment in and the operation of new sports infrastructure, as I have always pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u68	Minister, as regards the difference between the EUR 43 million and EUR 51 million, perhaps I should address your colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke. I will. I'm supposed to continue your willingness to engage in dialogue with the Pro League. I have also made it quite clear that you intend to implement a reform of the corporate tax on football, which means that the EUR 43 million that has now been set as a budgetary objective for you is clearly not an end point, but that you intend to bring much more into the top football. That too is noted. This message will be transmitted. Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u69	"Mr. Minister, the Social Real Estate Agencies (hereinafter AIS) are active in housing assistance. Their mission is to provide housing under social policy to certain categories of persons eligible for social assistance, i.e. any household or person with a precarious or modest income. In this context, AIS receives an annual grant. AIS also receive an annual margin of intermediation not exceeding 15 % of the rents contracted by tenants. Social real estate agencies retain this margin of intermediation in order to finance, in part, their operating costs. This margin is used to pool risks (unpaid rents, rental damage, etc.) as well as to maintain property in the state and carry out administrative and social procedures to assist tenants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u70	In your opinion, are the services rendered by an AIS to the owners or tenants of a building services falling within the scope of Article 44(2) of the VAT Code and exempt from tax?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u71	Madam President, Mr Piedboeuf, my administration has already decided previously that minor maintenance and repair work which social real estate agencies recognised by the competent authority carry out on the housing they rent is exempted under Article 44(2) of the VAT Code when carried out on behalf of the tenant. This exemption applies only to minor works which are normally borne by the tenant and which are provided by the social real estate agency and invoiced separately to the latter. In this case, these are services closely linked to social assistance provided by bodies referred to in the above-mentioned provision of the VAT Code. If you are considering other services, I invite you to provide me with more information on this matter so that I can have the matter discussed by my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u72	Madam Chair, Mr.Minister, I thank you for your answer, which is clear, and which ultimately corresponds to what is being sought, namely the support of people in difficulty. I will not fail to return to you, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u73	"Mr. Minister, Mr. Van Peteghem,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u74	Thank you for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u75	Mr Piedboeuf, in recent months, my colleagues have had several discussions with representatives of the Walloon Region on this proposal. It was agreed, in consultation with the Prime Minister's office, that the Walloon Region proposal would be included in the federal fiscal discussions in the spring of 2022. In the end, the proposal was not included in these spring 2022 budget discussions. In the meantime, my colleagues are continuing their efforts for a discussion during the next budgetary conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. I regret that, of course, but I understand that budgetary imperatives can make things look at with a further deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u77	Do Members who have a lot of questions and are still present see an inconvenience to Mr Piedboeuf's last question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u78	Mr Piedboeuf, the support measures to which you refer are measures that relate to the retention of pension rights only. Pensioned health care professionals who helped respond to the call to assist in managing the covid-19 pandemic could not be penalized in relation to their pension entitlement. In this context, the Act of 7 May 2020 introduced a decumulation as a combination of covid-19 income and income from a legal pension, supplementary pension or integration income in order not to lose the rights of the latter. For further information, I would like to refer you to my colleague, Karine Lalieux, the minister responsible for this matter. No tax exemption was provided by the legislator for these covid-19 revenues. Therefore, they are treated and taxed as traditional income and accumulated on other income of the taxpayer, including his pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u79	Minister, thank you. In my opinion, the communication that was made at the time was not good because the nursing pensioners who decided to help in the event of a shortage thought that there was a tax exemption. Today, the surprise is that the remuneration for these benefits is taxed. It was an encouragement and we could have thought that the government was going to take charge of it. Obviously, there has been poor communication, given the current reactions. I understand the concern not to penalise the award of pensions, but a further step should have been taken at the tax level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u80	Minister, "never so much dirty money has been found in Belgium". This is reflected in the Financial Information Processing Unit's report 2021. The number of complaints has increased by 50 per cent since 2020, which was already a record year. The number of cases referred to the courts also increased: from 2019 to 2021, the number of cases transmitted related to organised crime almost doubled, for amounts that almost quadrupled. However, it is well known that justice is cruelly under-resourced and has to dispose of many cases, even in serious cases. The CTIF notes that money laundering continues to flourish in Belgium, following the settlement of the port of Antwerp by major criminal networks, making Belgium one of the main gateways to cocaine trafficking in Europe. Minister, what conclusions and actions do you draw from the TIFC report with respect to your departmental competencies? It is clear that, in the face of this situation, customs officers can play an important role. What is the evolution of the workforce over the last three years for the general administration of Customs and Excise (AGDA), for the comptrollers of this administration as well as for the comptrollers active at the port of Antwerp?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u81	Mr Van Hees, the fight against money laundering on an international scale is gaining in intensity. The activity report shows that this also applies to Belgium, as evidenced by the importance of the CTIF in the preventive aspect of this fight, particularly in view of its very constructive role in raising awareness among all actors. This year, we strengthened the composition of the unit by appointing five members. The activity report also shows that joint work promotes greater efficiency. Several separate measures, but with common objectives, have led to an increase in the number of reports to CTIF. Thus, with the law of 20 December 2020, the government added the disclosure of the balance of accounts and contracts to the central point of contact of the National Bank of Belgium. The latter, in turn, issued a circular on 8 June 2021 entitled "Warning of the repatriation of funds from abroad". The inclusion of tax regularisation procedures in the application of the anti-money laundering law imposes rules, as well as an obligation to look back to the entire financial sector. Within the framework of the first action plan of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud, cooperation between the CTIF and the Anti-Fraud Committee (CAF) of the FPS Finances has been strengthened. The TIF shall provide the FCA with relevant information on their reported files. These surveys are automatically enriched by the information available to the Finance FPS. The CTIF's activity report considers this to be a great added value. All of these measures result in a considerable number of reports to CTIF. At the preventive level, the objectives have been achieved. It is now up to CTIF to enrich its disclosures and to transmit the relevant dossiers to the judicial authorities in order to carry out the repressive part of the fight against money laundering. Finally, I would like to thank stakeholders such as the State and its members for their participation in the fight against money-laundering. The number of reports in this sector has increased to 314. The State is making enormous efforts to raise awareness among its members, as well as to monitor its obligations. These efforts are greatly appreciated. As of January 1, 2020, the staff of the General Administration of Customs and Excise was 3,365. As of 1 January 2021, it was 3,343 and at the beginning of 2022 it was 3,312. The control functions within the AGDA are all Research Administration Officers, Level B Officers in front and second line control services, and Level B and C Officers in non-shift operations branches. The number of control functions was 850 in 2020, 846 in 2021 and 836 in 2022. For the Antwerp region, this number was 161 in 2020, 168 in 2021 and 169 in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u82	Minister, thank you. The whole question is whether the sharp increase in CTIF statistics concerns the fight against money-laundering or money-laundering. The report can be read in both directions. It is true that banks provide astronomical amounts of money laundering reports. We have the impression that they have automatic denunciation machines. What can be done with this information? They shall be transmitted to the judicial authorities. However, the country's great magistrates report that they no longer have the troops to deal with the great crime and, a fortiori, the great financial crime. As regards the general administration of Customs and Excise, there is a decrease. You just proved it by the numbers. The number of customs officers is decreasing. The figure you gave for 2022 seems a little problematic to me. We'd go from 3,300 to 1,300 agents. I must have misunderstood you. Maybe you wanted to talk about 3,312 agents. In any case, there is a decrease. You are committed to maintaining, if not the FPS Finance staff, at least the staff of the FPS Finance controllers. We can see from the figures that you give that this is not the case for the control functions since we are increasing from 850 in 2020 to 836 in 2022. You agree that this is a reduction. Antwerp has increased from 168 to 169. There's an extra agent there. There's an increase. Overall, the Finance FPS, including the AGDA, and the Comptrollers are decommitted. You are therefore not fulfilling your commitment to maintain the constant number of controllers. That's a problem, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u83	Mr President, it is my responsibility that the FPS Finances is planning to completely abolish the AFER premium by the end of 2023. This premium had been introduced many years ago when the control centres were set up, bringing together officials responsible for carrying out in-depth tax checks on direct contributions and VAT. It was before other FPS Finance reforms. The premium was justified by the fact that these control tasks involve frequent work on external missions. According to my information, the current situation would be rather confusing: new controllers would no longer have been entitled to this bonus, while agents who had obtained the bonus in the past would have kept even if they did not perform more control outside. Minister, do you confirm the FPS Finance's plan to abolish the AFER premium by the end of 2023? How do you justify deleting this staff acquis? Is monetary compensation envisaged? Why not apply a simple and transparent rule: to grant the bonus to agents who actually carry out external checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u84	Mr Van Hees, the bonus to which you refer is a transitional allowance introduced in 2013 as part of a broader reform of the remuneration of the civil service called the "basket". You are therefore mistaken in speaking of a premium of general application as provided for in the framework of the harmonisation and simplification of the allowances and allowances of the Royal Decree of 13 July 2017 on the basis of which each staff member receives in a transparent manner an allowance for his travel and subsistence expenses. Since that reform, this premium has been a personal allowance that will disappear for staff members who had been entitled to it in the past. It automatically stops for those promoted to a certain level. There is currently no question of abolishing it proactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u85	Minister, I have not understood your last reference to early deletion, but I hear that it has to disappear. I asked you if it is planned to be abolished by the end of 2023. I do not think I have an answer to that specific question. I would like to know what will happen at the end of 2023 for this AFER bonus. You're telling me that this is a transitional allowance, scheduled for 2013 at the time of the changeover. I think you're wrong. The AFER bonus was well before that time. This was not a transitional allowance. This is indeed the risk with the premiums: their elimination. This is a good example. Public servants have not seen an increase in their scales for more than 20 years, and when they cling to a bonus like that that that seemed to me to be quite justified, it is also removed. That's not a good signal you're sending to FPS Finance officers. If you have a more precise answer as to what will happen at the end of 2023, I am interested in it. But I don't feel that way. So I'll come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u86	Mr Cogolati is absent and cannot ask his question No 55027868C. The President: Mr Loones, you have a question No. 55028012C on the Court of Auditors' report on budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u87	Madam President, the Minister replied to this question during last week's budget discussion. So she can be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u88	Mr Minister, anyone looking for Community affairs in the coalition agreement with a magnifying glass may be able to see something. The possibility of implementing so-called asymmetrical policies was one of the few Community elements in the coalition agreement. However, this plan for asymmetric governance remained dead letter until today. In January 2021, the CD&V Minister for Institutional Reforms asked all of its fellow ministers to report to them by the summer of 2021 how they would implement that asymmetric policy. In October 2021, the Minister for Institutional Reforms repeated the call. To date, however, the Minister has received only four written replies, namely from the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, a member of your party, and from the Ministers for Health, Defence and Finance. Minister, can you confirm that you have sent an answer to the question of the Minister for Institutional Reforms? What are the most important sticking points in your answer? How will you implement the asymmetrical ambitions in the coalition agreement? Can you indicate which asymmetric policy plans you are planning within the competence of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u89	Mr Vermeersch, I have indeed received a question from my colleagues responsible for Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal. We also answered that question. As you know, the government agreement places the emphasis on health and labour markets as the most important areas for asymmetric policies today. As far as my competence is concerned, it should be noted that in fact there are already regulations that allow for asymmetric policies. I refer, for example, to the exemption from the transfer of farm levy for assisted areas, where the regions have the possibility of applying or not applying this regulation. In the case of the assisted areas, the question came from the regions themselves and regulate the respective cooperation agreements on how the rules are applied, with respect for everyone's competence. So that's asymmetrical. Moreover, the last state reform also allowed the regions to pursue an asymmetric policy. It should be noted that no Region has made use of it, so that it can be assumed that an asymmetric policy does not constitute an end in itself for the Regions. A question of implementing an asymmetric policy within my competence can always be asked, with respect, of course, for fair taxation, the principles of equality and non-discrimination. Finally, it will also analyse whether or not this creates a new usurping power.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u90	Minister, you are in the process of fiscal reform. I hope you have not forgotten one thing in your blueprint and plans or on your day of study, namely the famous five resolutions of the Flemish Parliament on state reform. One of these resolutions dealt with fiscal autonomy, the resolution on the development of financial and fiscal autonomy in the next state reform. In committee, we once had an exchange of views at the start of the whole process of fiscal reform. At that time, the Flemish Interest stressed that this fiscal autonomy should, as far as we are concerned, be part of the fiscal reform in this country for the regions. If not, it will not achieve the desired goal. Fiscal autonomy allows to take into account regional differences. Charges are, of course, an important tool for public policy at Flemish level. This, of course, also strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the Länder, or of what should ever become autonomous regions for us. I therefore call for your tax reform to also make a focus of fiscal autonomy for Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u91	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u92	It is clear that there are differing views on the important European budgetary rules, on which I have already had intensive discussions with all the partners during various consultations, including here in committee. The federal position to which you refer was established following intense government discussions and was also shared with the Prime Ministers of the Länder. I have also been briefed on this in detail in the IMC Finance and Budget. So all partners are involved. However, it is important to understand that there are currently no concrete proposals from the European Commission on the table. So we are not yet in a position to determine a formal position. Once there are concrete proposals on the table, the Belgian position will be determined by the usual DGE procedure. We suspect that the discussion on a revision of the budgetary rules will start in the second semester. At present, the European debate is mainly on an informal basis. This is, of course, also because there are several uncertainties, such as the impact of the Ukraine crisis, the energy and purchasing power crisis. On the basis of these uncertainties, it was also decided that we would extend the general escape clause by one year until the end of 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u93	Since the submission of my question, of course, some changes have been made. The budgetary rules will be put on hold until the end of 2023. The delay is just about the only glimmer of light that could be seen throughout the budget debate. There were two remarkable reactions on the day of the announcement of the postponement. There was one of you and one of the Walloon Prime Minister Di Rupo. The latter was very relieved that the rules were postponed for another year. Both the federal budget and the Walloon budget are totally out of order. Let me quote: 'Minister Vincent Van Peteghem is satisfied with the European postponement'. Such headlines were still to be found. It was therefore remarkable that two people were very satisfied with the further delay. However, we must be honest; we also saw this in last week's budget debate. Should the effects of the corona crisis and of the war in Ukraine be eliminated from the budget, Belgium would undoubtedly already be on the European criminal bench today. Structural expenditure in this country has clearly increased. The structural deficit has also increased, which means that we will never be able to comply with the budgetary rules again, even if we make an abstraction of the corona crisis and the war in Ukraine. It should be all hands on deck; we had an exchange of views this morning with the Secretary of State for the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u94	Minister, the Alimony Claims Service was established by law of 21 February 2003 and its operation started in mid-2005. This service should be an important link in the fight against poverty, especially for the large group of single mothers who are required to receive child support, but whose maintenance agent refuses to pay it. The consequences of the corona crisis, the energy crisis and the Ukraine crisis also threaten to impose additional work on this service. In response to a parliamentary question from Mr Ellen Samyn, you said: "In fact, no annual reports have been published since 2010. After all, there has been a period when the Evaluation Committee was no longer constituted." In the meantime, have new annual reports been published? If not, why not? You also replied: "Now that a new government has been formed, group leaders and interest groups will be consulted as soon as possible for the appointment of their representatives. From the moment all names are known, the necessary decisions will be taken." Has the Evaluation Committee been established in the meantime? This government already took office in October 2020. Who are the members? How many times a year does this committee meet? What is the actual processing time of the files and has it been improved since the start of this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u95	Madam President, no new annual report has yet been published because the Evaluation Committee has not yet been established. Since not all the names of the candidates are yet known, I cannot, of course, tell you their names and the rhythm of meetings. As soon as the creditor's application is complete, the Office for Maintenance Claims, DAVO, shall have a period of 30 days to decide whether or not the service will act for the creditor. The computer system automatically enforces a decision after 30 days. So everything depends on when the application is complete. The major delaying factor was the return of the mandate signed by the applicant, in which the DAVO summarized all the information and the amounts due. Meanwhile, the return of the mandate was abolished, so that it would no longer delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u96	Your answer is quite appalling, isn't it? This government was launched in October 2020. However, you have to answer me now, in June 2022, that the Evaluation Committee has still not been established. That's unbelievable. DAVO is an important link in the fight against poverty. We've been through the corona crisis and the energy crisis is raging. We are also dealing with the Ukraine crisis and the purchasing power crisis. This service is, of course, extra questioned at the moment. However, the government must now respond that DAVO is still not working in an adequate way. So that's unbelievable. We will certainly follow up on this from the Flemish interest, because that problem needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u97	Minister, you know that I have a special affinity with customs. The customs officers in the port of Antwerp apparently have to register with the operator's security before entering a terminal. In doing so, the appointment must be shown and the strain number and number plate must be recorded. However, the legislation of this country states that customs has free access on simple presentation of the appointment. Fast access to the quays will thus be impossible, while criminals have a so-called alphapass: a registration card allowing easy access to a large part of the sites in the port of Antwerp. Criminals can thus enter and leave the quays by simply bathing. But customs can't. Until recently, customs also had an alphapass, but these registration cards were withdrawn again because terminal operators did not cooperate sufficiently in the activation of those cards. In short, when reporting suspicious circumstances on the quays, criminals leave the premises quickly and efficiently, while customs officers are still in charge of registration. Minister, are you aware of this problem? If not, I'm glad I can bring them to you and bring them to your attention. Do you agree with the demand of customs to have faster and more efficient access to the areas of ports and airports? What concrete action can you, as Minister, take to tackle this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u98	This problem is more complex and nuanced than described by you. In port areas, port facility security rules apply. These rules are laid down by the International Maritime Organisation. Those safety provisions have been incorporated into a European regulation which has been translated into Belgian law, including through the Royal Decree of 21 April 2007 on maritime security. This Royal Decree forms the basis for the operation of the National Maritime Security Authority, which includes the administration of customs and excise duties. This authority also regulates, inter alia, access to terminals. On the basis of the regulations, a customs officer may have access to the terminal on presentation of his or her appointment. The terminal is, of course, also bound by the ISPS rules and must be able to control access to its sites. The terminals shall justify the customs authority's access by recording the personnel number and the number plate of the service vehicle entering the service. The alphapass is a type of badge system that can provide simplified access to the terminal. Customs also use this alphapass, albeit only for the administration Investigation, as the customs officers of Investigation sometimes have to be unexpected at a terminal. In order to also give the administration Operations access to the terminal and to be able to operate smoothly there, agreements have been made with the terminal operators and regular consultations have also been made to correct problems. Apart from that, of course, customs, like the other security services, have the possibility of unhindered access to the terminal if they are driven under a priority regime, i.e. with sirens and flashing lights. However, we want to reserve this way of working for very exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u99	Minister, you have given a correct answer to the question. You also understand the problem. The problem is that customs officers have not only the impression, but also, in practice, the fact that criminals can get in and out of port while they have difficulties in getting in, which, of course, does not help to combat crime effectively. Between the rules, however, I think I have understood that the problem is clear and that the necessary actions will be taken so that the situation is less problematic in the future. I will certainly follow up on the matter. If the problem is repeated, we will certainly come back to Parliament with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u100	These questions are partly well and partly not outdated. I refer to the questions that have been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u101	Mr Vandenbroucke, I hope everything is up to date. [[(Hilarity]] ) Madam President, Mr Vandenbroucke, the precise reasons for the current Hungarian blockade continue to be guessed. Officially, the changing economic situation is cited and the short delay in completing the rules on Pillar 1 in the OECD framework. In the final analysis, however, we were able to allow Poland to accept the proposal during the last Ecofin meeting on 17 June. In order to remove Poland's concerns, the Council stressed the importance of Pillar 1 on the one hand and the commitment by Member States to participate in its formulation and implementation, both in the recitals in the draft directive and in a separate declaration on the other. In addition, the Commission was instructed to review the state of negotiations on Pillar 1 by the middle of 2023. If there is insufficient progress, it should submit a European legislative proposal to the Council as an alternative to Pillar 1. This has convinced Poland, but for Hungary, which has so far shown itself to be positive, it was suddenly insufficient. The French Presidency hopes to convince Hungary before the end of June, but then it will have to hurry, as the Czech Presidency will take over from 1 July. Increased cooperation in the dossier is not at present our preferred option. The approach to tax havens must be taken together with as many countries as possible, hence the work at OECD level. If our own European Member States were not to participate in European transposition, we would actually go against the ambition of a uniform implementation of an international agreement. For me, fair taxation is just about eliminating a race to the bottom between Member States. It is therefore crucial that all Member States are on board. Rather than thinking about enhanced cooperation, I call for unanimity in such cases to be called into question. Only in this way can we put an end to the blackmail practices of some Member States. Finally, on the basis of an initial entry into force of Pillar 1 in 2023, an additional tax receipt of EUR 100 million for the financial year 2023 has indeed been taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u102	Thank you for your interesting answer, Minister. I share your view that the ambition must be to cross the Rubicon and work towards an international fair tax. You speak of blackmail. That's a tough word, but maybe it's in place. In particular, I hope that it will not be Echternach's procession, which will mean that we will have to decide at some point that we may still have to follow the path of enhanced cooperation. However, as long as you see the prospect of unanimity, I hope, but we will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u103	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u104	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u105	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u106	Mr Minister, I will concentrate on the second question, because the first is now obsolete. The government extended the energy measures until the end of this year on 18 June. These include the social tariff, the VAT reduction to 6% on electricity and gas and the first reduction in excise duties on fuels. We welcome the second reduction in excise duty. These measures were normally until 30 September 2022. A solution has finally been developed for co-owners and the VAT for gas is reduced. A budget of EUR 70 million is earmarked for this purpose. On 18 June, you confirmed that the reduction of gas VAT will also apply to residential care centres, hospitals, non-profit organisations and even municipal authorities as from 1 July. My colleague Ravyts asks the Minister responsible about this in the Energy Committee and we will put together our answers. Is it true that the starting point of the gas tax reduction for residential care centres, hospitals, non-profit organisations and municipal authorities was postponed from 1 July to 1 August? Will the planned budget of EUR 70 million suffice? I was surprised, for example, that local authorities also receive VAT reductions. I am thinking of sports halls and pools that need to be heated and wonder whether the budget of EUR 70 million will be enough to give municipal authorities a full VAT reduction. In De Tijd, the Flemish Independent Healthcare Network or Vlozo, the Flemish sector federation of private health care entrepreneurs, asks to allow the reduction of VAT on gas in the winter months of January and February. Are you prepared to deal with this? Vlozo also asks for VAT on electricity to be reduced. So far there has been no trace of this in the communication of the government. That's a little double. The VAT reduction was first on electricity and then on gas, but here it is exactly the opposite. Are you prepared to allow a VAT reduction on electricity and therefore to respond to the demand of the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u107	Mr Vermeersch, the government has already invested in various measures to reduce the energy bill for Belgian families. To anticipate the high prices this winter, we have already decided to clarify the VAT reduction for gas and electricity and to extend it until 31 December of this year. Of course, we will continue to follow the evolution of prices closely. We can always decide whether a further extension is required. The government has also sought and found a solution for families who heat up with a collective gas installation, so that they can also benefit from the VAT reduction during the colder months. The only solution that can be implemented quickly proved to be the extension of a VAT rate for gas. I am therefore particularly pleased that in this way the heating bill of residential care centres, schools and municipalities that have a gas boiler will also be significantly reduced in the coming months. It is true that the extension of the VAT reduction for gas to all contracts will take effect from 1 August 2022. The energy sector has urged it to do so only on 1 September, because it would be impossible for them to adapt their IT and invoicing in the short term, but we can only agree with a delay until 1 August. In this way, the impact is also limited, given the limited consumption during the summer months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u108	Minister, you do not answer my question as to whether the budget of EUR 70 million will be sufficient. You also do not consider whether or not you are willing to reduce the VAT on electricity. Unfortunately, you have not answered that, but no answer is of course also an answer. What you have said is that you grant the tax reduction on gas in the colder months, but those colder months of course do not stop in December. Actually, winter doesn't start until December 20th. So we certainly need to consider extending it in January and February. I understand from your mimicry that you can decide that in the budget for 2023. I do wonder whether the EUR 70 million will suffice. I saw Mr Vanbesien slipping somewhat uncomfortable on his seat when it was confirmed that it was only gas and not electricity. I understand that this is for practical reasons, because this was easier to achieve, while electricity is much more difficult to achieve. Politically, that is of course different, especially for a green party that does allow a reduction in VAT on gas but not on electricity. Among other things, Minister Van der Straeten had communicated something else. It is, of course, regrettable that a press conference will be held on 18 June to say that VAT on gas will be reduced from 1 July, which will have to be adjusted to 1 August a week later. That's not a proper way of communicating. In the meantime, the government knows that suppliers must be able to adapt their systems and that this will take some time. With the original communication on 18 June of course it should have been said that it would be 1 August. That's correct communication. You spoke a little prematurely. In your mind, you probably knew that 1 July would be particularly difficult for all parties. It is regrettable that the government is not communicating correctly in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u109	Mr Vermeersch, I shall come back to the proposed 70 million. There is a VAT reduction for both individuals and professionals. There are, of course, many VAT payers among professionals, who can recover VAT. This will have no impact on the budget. It is actually about professionals, such as residential care centres, local authorities, but also people who live in a collective provision and are not subject to VAT, which means that they cannot recover them either. In this way the cost is rather limited, but it is of course still 70 million for the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u110	Minister, last year I spoke to you about Belfius' advertising campaign in two widely read newspapers, specifically directed at rich people. In it Belfius indicated that rich customers can enjoy an exclusive service, the excellence of which can be guaranteed daily. That was their advertising campaign back then. I pointed out at that time that these statements implied that less well-off people could not count on such a daily service, which is socially undesirable. It now seems that Belfius is continuing along this path, because the special services for the rich are now being extended from 5 to 70 offices. In these offices, they will be able to apply not only for very specific asset planning services but also for normal services, such as sales of insurance, residential loans or business loans. So not open to everyone. I would remind you that normal banking services are increasingly difficult to reach for part of the population, often lower incomes. Do you believe that this commercial policy increases inequality, as the wealthier gets more opportunities while the less wealthy get fewer opportunities by closing down vending machines and offices? How are you looking today at the possibility, as I suggested earlier, of concluding a management contract with Belfius in order to redirect the policy towards a policy in which all Belgians can find themselves? Where are we with the negotiations with Febelfin on a banker's oath?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u111	Through initiatives such as Batopin, we can ensure that non-borrowers also continue to have access to basic banking services. I am also currently looking, together with Mr De Sutter, at the possibility of using the office network of bpost to provide basic banking services there. The centralisation of Belfius within FPIM's balance sheet will ensure that this shareholdership is also more active. The knowledge available to FPIM will ensure better management and a more effective long-term policy. FPIM will also monitor the balance between social and environmental objectives and profitability. It will do so, inter alia, by the CSR charter approved on its Management Board to which it will subject its participations. I have therefore worked on this centralisation as soon as possible since my arrival, partly because I really believe that the government can take its shareholder role more actively. Following the passage in the coalition agreement, an opinion was requested from the FSMA on the legislation adopted in Parliament on the so-called banker's oath. The Law of 22 April 2019 establishes a disciplinary and deontological regime in Belgian law, based on a partially privatised self-regulation system that is almost completely independent of the traditional supervisory structures of the financial sector. Since the current scheme is strongly based on the Dutch model in Belgian law, the FSMA has organised several meetings with the relevant Dutch institutions, namely the Stichting Duchtrecht, the banks and the Nederlandsche Bank. It is noted that the Netherlands is the only EU Member State that has introduced such a scheme. Taking into account the lessons learned from the experience gained in the Netherlands, the FSMA proposes to use the structures and procedures existing in the FSMA. It also proposes building on existing supervisory structures in the financial sector, experience and powers to ensure the quality and credibility of the system and also to reduce costs for the sector. On the basis of its opinion and the study work carried out, the FSMA was asked to draw up a preliminary draft law and possible implementing decisions. As soon as these texts are in, we will, of course, also discuss them within the government and I will also consult the sector myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u112	Belfius is a public bank and 100% owned by the Belgian State and its citizens. This brings with it responsibilities, both for the bank and for the State. It is therefore up to us to determine the bank's policy. You say that with the reform of FPIM this will also be more the case. That is a good thing, and we will keep that in mind and check whether things are evolving in this direction. As far as the banker's oath is concerned, I understand that the FSMA will prepare a proposal and we look forward to it. Here too, we will follow the direction it goes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u113	In a previous question on the distribution of the costs of the European plastic tax, you replied that there are currently interfederal negotiations on the packaging levy in general and that you hoped that it would result in an inter-federal cooperation agreement. What about the interfederal negotiations on the packaging levy? Are these negotiations solely about the distribution of the costs of the European packaging levy? Your answer to my written question No 801 shows that the present packaging levy was established because it was administratively linked to the excise duties on beverages. This has an important disadvantage that the current packaging levy cannot be simply extended to other non-recyclable plastic packaging. Would it not be better to do this in the light of the introduction of the European plastic tax? Does that mean that we need to reform the current packaging levy? The revenue from the environmental tax on packaging is currently general revenue. In order to ensure maximum profits for our environment, would it not be better to have a specific destination, for example to reduce the cost of recyclable packaging?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u114	The interfederal negotiations to which you refer are aimed at reaching an agreement on the application in Belgium of a new national contribution to European own resources, calculated on the basis of non-recycled packaging waste in plastics. So these negotiations are not about the federal packaging tax. The reform of the packaging levy can be considered in the context of a greening of taxation. Finally, in principle, I am not in favour of allocating specific tax revenues to a particular destination. The planned expenditure may be entered in the budget and may then be financed by general revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u115	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u116	A year ago, 43 banks founded the Net-Zero Banking Alliance. Today it has been extended to 111 banks in 41 countries. These banks together represent a value of 68 trillion dollars, which corresponds to approximately 38% of global banking assets. The members of the Alliance undertake to align their loans and their investments with policies that set a realistic path towards climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. For this purpose, the participating parties should set intermediate objectives and plans and also report annually on the emissions that their financial activities cause. Several environmental organisations indicate that this alliance has a positive impact. The annual reporting obligation in particular means that the signatory parties are more transparent about their activities and about the emissions they represent. It is therefore regrettable that no Belgian bank is a member of the alliance. I therefore have the following questions for you, given the contacts you have in the financial sector and the banking sector. Firstly, have you had discussions with Belgian banks since the alliance was founded on the possibility of joining that alliance? Secondly, why do you not think there are any Belgian banks yet? Are the Belgian banks which have signed the principles of responsible banking preparing for accession? Thirdly, Belfius is in the hands of the government at 100%. The federal government agreement is very ambitious in terms of climate. Why does the Belgian State as owner in that context of Belfius require less ambition than what the alliance would prescribe? Fourthly and finally, do you believe that a management agreement with Belfius would be a way of adjusting that bank's climate policy? You will undoubtedly respond in a similar way to just that and argue that you will first examine whether the new FPIM rules can increase the influence. However, the other three questions remain relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u117	Mr Vanbesien, at European and international level, there are several initiatives similar to the Net-Zero Banking Alliance. Each initiative has a different timetable and a different approach. Of course, that does not make it easy for the banks to make a distinction. We must avoid banks engaging in unsubstantiated commitments. Many Belgian financial institutions have already effectively joined one or more initiatives. In line with his raison d'être, namely Meaningful Inspiring for Belgian Society. Together', Belfius has a strong climate ambition and approach to support and promote the transition to a sustainable economy and society. For example, Belfius has been climate neutral for its own operational operation since 2019, certified by Vinçotte. Realizing that the climate impact through funded emissions is much greater than its own operational impact, Belfius was the first major bank to become a member of the Belgian Alliance for Climate Action in 2020. As a result, Belfius joined the Science Based Targets Initiative in early 2022. With the Science Based Targets Initiative, Belfius committed itself to setting emission reduction targets in a scientifically substantiated manner, in line with the ambitions of the Paris Climate Agreement, which limit global warming to less than 2% above pre-industrial levels and continue to make efforts to limit warming to 1.5%. The initiative is, on the one hand, similar to the Net Zero Banking Alliance, but at the same time also continues in a number of areas, because besides an ambition on Horizon 2050, a phasing-out process is also provided using a scientifically based and imposed methodology. The Net Zero Banking Alliance confines itself to providing principles. The SBTI also prescribes the methodology, to go to just zero. While the NZBA calls for targets to be set for 2030 and 2050, the SBTI also imposes a short-term target on a long-term commitment, which calls for immediate action. In doing so, the initiative is also put forward in the European legislative framework. Belfius also stresses that the fight for the climate must not be at the expense of a social society. Energy and climate transition must not be at the expense of the weaker population groups, but must be accompanied by them. Belfius wants to watch over this by opting for a holistic approach to its role in the Belgian economy and society, where the three components of sustainability, environment, social and governance are balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u118	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, especially on the questions relating to Belfius. But it is also about the other banks in our country and their commitments. The relationship between the financial world and the climate is becoming increasingly clear. We saw this recently when the National Bank warned the banks about the risks associated with loans for poorly isolated houses. The more the transition to a climate-neutral society slows down, the greater the risk for the financial sector. The sector is becoming increasingly aware of this. In this context, I note the commitments of Belfius. Other banks are also engaged, and I am aware that they are not standing still. However, I would like to remind them regularly not to fall silent, but to go further and further. Such an alliance, which nevertheless represents 38% of banking assets worldwide, is not nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u119	Madam President, the Beyond Chocolate initiative is an important initiative of the Belgian government and the chocolate sector from 2018 in which the government and the stakeholders involved work together to make the chocolate sector more sustainable. The financial sector is already involved in many sector-specific sustainability initiatives but not yet at the Beyond Chocolate. Febelfin does, however, want to see how the sector's involvement can be organised. The financial sector is, of course, aware that the cocoa value chain is sensitive to these social and environmental issues. This is why particular caution is being exercised in the financing of this sector. For example, as part of general ESC care procedures, financial institutions use sector-specific policies to monitor the negative environmental and social impact in certain sensitive sectors. The value chain of cocoa is usually covered by the broader policy on agriculture, agricultural raw materials or forestry. Managing sustainability risks in the value chain of companies is, of course, complex and requires a clearer framework, which adequately aligns the responsibilities of the different stakeholders. That is why I am particularly pleased that the European Commission finally put forward a broader due diligence proposal in February of this year. This proposal proposes a harmonised horizontal approach as an alternative to the current fragmented national and sectoral initiatives. Through this proposal, companies will be held responsible for the negative consequences for human rights and the environment of their own activities, as well as for activities in their value chain. Financial actors also fall within the scope of this Directive and will therefore have to take this into account in lending. For financial institutions, it is important that the sectors most at risk of human rights violations in their value chain are subject to adequate transparency obligations on these principles of care. Only in this way can banks and asset managers make sound decisions on whether or not to finance certain projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u120	Minister, it was a positive answer. This is a theme where the financial sector has a moral responsibility. This time it is not just about climate, but also about human rights, child labour and deforestation. These are social problems where we need to move forward towards a better world. The initiative of due diligence in Europe will indeed help us to take more than small steps in the right direction. This is something that we will, of course, follow up further through civil society organisations and reports that appear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u121	In February, I asked you about the reform of the advantage of all kinds of electricity and heating. I pointed out at the time that the reform could potentially conflict with the principle of equality. The Jan Tuerlinckx also recently warned in Trends about the possible unconstitutionality of the reform. In particular, the distinction is made between beneficiaries who are given heating or electricity and who are given housing or not. He referred, among other things, to the negative opinion of the Council of State on the royal decree that introduced the reform. I also asked you at the time about the legitimacy of the distinction. You replied that, according to you, the distinction is justified, since the beneficiary of electricity or heating which is also available to a dwelling often has no influence on the energy efficiency of that dwelling and on the agreement on the supply of electricity and gas. It could be argued that in the event that the manager also has the property at the disposal of the employer, he has a substantial influence on the energy agreements and the energy efficiency of the home. In addition, it is an open question in how many cases, whether or not beneficiaries of gas alone or electricity supply have control over the modalities of the energy agreements. Can you further clarify the previous argument, why the distinction made by the reform is justified in the light of the principle of equality? I also asked you in February whether the flat-rate valuation of the advantage cannot determine all types of electricity and heating on the basis of a set of variable parameters, in addition to indexation. You replied that you would ask your administration to investigate that possibility. Did you do this in the meantime? What are the results of this investigation? The real cost of electricity and gas in December 2021 was more than EUR 300 and 600, respectively, than the flat-rate amount for these benefits, and in the meantime much more. Why didn't you take advantage of the benefit reform to adjust these lump sums? Could this possibly happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u122	Where a taxable person is provided with heating or electricity without having a dwelling at his disposal, it is often a matter of providing heating and electricity in the context of cafeteria plans. In that case, the taxable person shall decide whether or not to include the provision of heating or electricity in his cafeteria plan. This is not the case with a concierge, to whom a specific house is generally made available and where the supply of heating and electricity is carried out in accordance with the terms agreed with the energy supplier by the employer. In that respect, the distinction in the treatment of the advantage of the provision of heating and electricity between an employee with a cafeteria plan and a concierge, who is provided with a house with heating and electricity, is justified. My administration is currently considering whether it is possible to determine the benefit of all kinds on a flat-rate basis on the average prices of, for example, electricity and gas over a given period, possibly taking into account average consumption. In this context, it will be examined, for example, what period the average price can best be set, and also whether the scope of the flat-rate benefit of all kinds could be defined more narrowly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u123	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. We'll take another look at it. In any case, I am pleased that the administration is examining further the possibilities of making some adjustments if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u124	Debates of the European Parliament 55028312C) by Mr Wollants and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55028379C and 55028405C by Mrs Cornet are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u125	Mr Minister, the European embargo on Russian oil provides the highest oil prices in months, and that is what we feel at the pump. Today we are again seeing significant increases and prices reach absolute record heights. You are thinking of a temporary and further reduction of excise duties on petrol and diesel to the European minimum. You replied to questions of the Flemish Interest in the Chamber. At the same time, you are working on a new package of purchasing power measures, but that part of my question is obviously outdated. I promised I'd follow up on this. What is the state of the promised reduction in excise duty? When should it enter into force? When will the new package of purchasing power measures arrive? Of course, that last question is out of date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u126	Mr Vermeersch, indeed, the questions you are now asking have already been dealt with in Parliament last week. Purchasing power measures have been extended and strengthened until the end of the year. The reduction in excise duty on diesel and petrol, which was decided in March, was also extended until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u127	Minister, the important aspect is that for the second time in a row you no longer talk about your commitment to achieve an even further reduction to the European minimum. Apparently, you swallow that promise. We take note of this and will not fail to knock on this nail again if there are further price increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u128	Mr Ben Accour is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u129	The debt problem is serious and is also on the agenda of the G20, because cooperation at global level is necessary. Priority should be given to improving the operationality of the common framework, which aims to find structural solutions for countries' debt so that this framework can provide effective solutions to countries with debt problems. Belgium is in favour of making the procedure, including the timelines, more binding. After all, implementation is now slow, particularly due to China's lack of cooperation. There are regular voices to involve international financial institutions and multilateral development banks in the debt relief process. This is an option, but it must be borne in mind that in this case these institutions must be compensated for the losses they would incur. Failure to do so would jeopardise their future operation and in the long term would be detrimental to the countries that they want to help. In particular, it is important that development banks retain their favourable rating. The sale of part of the gold stock by the IMF, on the basis of which some of the multilateral debt relief could be financed by the profits generated, is theoretically possible but factually unrealistic. This requires a majority of 85% on the IMF Board of Governors. Recent discussions have shown that this majority is not within reach. You also had a question about the abolition of the additional committees, the surcharges, imposed by the IMF. I can tell you that the draft has not been put back on the IMF Management Board's agenda since my previous reply. I repeat my explicit support for a holistic review of this policy in the context of the income model of the fund and the general and financial perspectives. In due course, Belgium will ask similar countries to adopt a united position on this draft. It is clear that the IMF has an important international role to play. I indicated at the spring IMF meeting that Belgium intends to contribute significantly to the IMF's Resilience and Sustainability Trust, which has been established in the meantime. In a letter dated 21 April 2022, the managing director of the IMF, Kristalina Georgieva, once again requested that explicit support from Belgium to this trust. I will therefore shortly submit to the Council of Ministers a concrete proposal for a Belgian contribution, through the use of some of the SDRs allocated to our country, the special drawing rights. The contribution will largely be made through the National Bank of Belgium, through credit lines under State guarantee. Once the Council of Ministers has decided and the Executive Committee of the National Bank has also agreed, the National Bank of Belgium will have to negotiate and sign the necessary agreements with the IMF. Afterwards, the transaction can be executed. With RST funds, the IMF will be able to provide loans to low- and middle-income countries until 2030. In addition to the contribution to the Resilience and Sustainability Trust, there is also a channeling to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust in the pipeline, for an amount of 200 million in special drawing rights. For the time being, no further channeling of SDR is foreseen. For the time being, no institution outside the IMF is eligible for such channeling, as these special drawing rights should not lose their reserve status. Bilateral transfers are therefore excluded. The amount of the contribution to the RST has yet to be validated by the Council of Ministers and the National Bank. The RST funds will be lent to countries that so request. These loans, with a duration of 20 years, will be repaid to the IMF. These resources will therefore be returned in parallel to the countries and institutions which made them available. In our case, that's our National Bank. RST loans will indeed be linked to an IMF programme, subject to certain conditions. These conditions are necessary to ensure the reserve status of the funds and to ensure their correct and effective use. I would also point out that each Member State of the IMF has been allocated a certain amount of SDR, which can be used unconditionally. The aim of the RST is to help the countries concerned to tackle key long-term challenges, such as climate issues, but also to combat future pandemics, which will affect vulnerable countries. As the target group of RST are low- and middle-income countries, it is my expectation that the contributions to RST will be considered official development aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u130	Then you for your comprehensive answer, Minister. I will read the report again and analyse everything you have said, and we will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u131	Madam President, Minister, on 3 June the government decided to increase the amount of mileage allowances for professional movements from EUR 37 to 40 cents per kilometre, retroactively until March. This is mainly intended to help finance the higher travel allowances for cleaning aid, for example, but also for domestic nurses. Certainly cleaning aid is now helping to get to work, because of rising fuel prices. At the same time, there will also be a tax incentive for employers who grant higher compensation to allow them or encourage them to grant the maximum or the highest possible remuneration to the staff within the tax exempt fork. A budget of EUR 30 million will be deployed for this purpose. The social partners did not reach agreement on this, which is why the government has now taken decisions. Mr President, could you clarify the practical arrangements for the implementation of the measure? To what extent can this measure be used not only by commercial service cheque companies but also by non-profit organisations, so that there is a level playing field between the different players operating on that market? This is also important for cleaning aid, regardless of the nature of the employer, because the costs are the same for everyone. Will you also carry out an information campaign so that employers are well informed and well aware that this option exists, that this tax incentive exists retroactively until March 2022, so that they will also effectively use that measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u132	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the government has indeed decided to provide a tax incentive to encourage employers to pay their employees the maximum mileage allowance. The incentive will be provided by means of a tax credit, which will apply in both personal and corporate taxation, legal and non-resident taxation. We are currently working on the details of the terms of the loan. It's a little early to go into that. Through the tax credit, I, of course within the framework of my powers, try to encourage employers to reimburse the costs incurred by their employees for the same amount as the remuneration granted by the federal government to their employees. This is the so-called'serious standard', which is indexed annually. That is the flat-rate mileage allowance, which we also increased retroactively on 3 June 2022 to 40.2 cents per kilometre. While the amount has previously been indexed annually, we will now index it on a quarterly basis, so that it is effectively closer and better in line with real fuel costs. After all, I had looked at this again in preparation for the meeting at which we decided on the measure. The previous calculation was in June 2021. Then the price was one and a half euros. So it took a year for the fee to evolve. That is why we have chosen to organise indexing on a quarterly basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u133	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have already indicated that it is a good measure for me in itself, especially for cleaning aid, for whom there is now a sectoral agreement, which is also committed to doing so. The measure is particularly important for cleaning aid. After all, these are people who were already working at a low wage and received virtually no travel allowance. So there are more opportunities for them now. I repeat, I'm not a fiscalist. I'm normally a member of the Social Affairs Committee. However, you are talking about corporate tax and corporate tax. I therefore assume that the measure will also apply to non-profit organisations through the tax on legal persons. So far my knowledge of taxation extends. The measure is therefore good news. For cleaning aid, it is important that they come out of the costs and that the remuneration is revised quarterly. After all, this allows us to evolve faster with fuel prices and to intervene more quickly when they spread the pan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u134	Mr Vermeersch, I refer to my answer to question 55026403C by Mr Marco Van Hees. As regards the Data Protection Authority, it states that it cannot carry out such a study. My administration prepared and explained the study requested in the College for the fight against tax and social fraud on 24 January 2022. It is true that some of the initiatives proposed by my administration require legislative changes. On 1 April 2022, the Ministerial Committee for the fight against tax and social fraud took note of that study. It is currently being examined how a risk analysis can be carried out within the structure of the FPS Finance, taking into account the analysis made and within the framework of the coalition agreement. Your claim that this risk analysis will finally put an end to banking secrecy does not correspond to the objective of data mining. Datamining has the purpose of detecting a risk, in this case of non-reported income. As you describe in your question, the existing conditions for access to the CAP will have to be present in the individual file. As a reminder, that procedure is also part of a relative banking secret. The study shows that this procedure does not apply to all matters. Finally, developments with regard to the international standard on transparency will have to be taken into account. In this House, you have expressed doubts about the usefulness and purpose of the UBO register. However, a performant UBO registry appears to be particularly important for the effectiveness of the European sanction packages in the context of the Ukraine crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u135	Thank you for your reply, Minister. For the Flemish Interest, this privacy must be permanently respected. We will await the legal texts to see exactly what is meant by this data mining. I will certainly read your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u136	Mr Tusters is not present for his question n° 55028603C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u137	Mr Toventors has informed me that his question can be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u138	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u139	I refer to my question as it was submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u140	In accordance with the decision of the Ministerial Committee and the Government, the scope of copyright will be clarified. The abolition of the current regime was never envisaged. However, there are problems with the current scheme and therefore the scope should be clarified in the light of the original objectives of the scheme. This concerns a more detailed definition of the scope of the current scheme on the basis of the original objective of the Law of 16 June 2008. As already indicated, the complete abolition of the current regime is not envisaged. The desired changes are just aimed at maintaining that scheme for taxable persons who receive irregular and uncertain income during successive taxable periods.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u141	Madam President, I have to be in Kortrijk at 7 p.m., so I would like to leave the sitting now. I would like all remaining oral questions to be dealt with at a forthcoming sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u142	Debates of the European Parliament 55028669C, 55028775C, 55028832C, 55028882C and 55028912C of Mr Vermeersch are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u143	Mr Minister, my question concerns the future of the financial stability of the euro and its approach. After all, we see a lot of debt, there are discussions about Ukraine and there is a debate about inflation and whether interest rates should rise. Mrs Lagarde has today made a new, more intense communication on this subject. It is increasingly the question of how the European Central Bank (ECB) will position itself in that debate, especially when it prints money, as it is briefly said, or buys bonds. Today, the ECB adheres to a capital key: Member States contribute and can expect support in the same proportion as their contribution. That is an important principle. The ECB itself calls it a condition for the market to function properly and to remain neutral, but the longer that principle seems to go on. How do you assess that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u144	The ECB is, of course, acting in full independence on monetary policy. It is not for the Member States to give instructions to the ECB in this regard. Since 2015, the ECB has decided to make purchases of government bonds under the Public Sector Purchase Programme, which is part of the Asset Purchase Programme. Since the corona crisis, such purchases have also been made through the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme. Both the Asset Purchase Programme and the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme are subject to the ECB's capital key as a reference to spread the purchase of government bonds across euro area countries. However, purchases under the PEPP may temporarily deviate from this if market conditions so require. For example, especially during the first months of the crisis, relatively more government bonds were purchased in countries such as Italy and Spain, but as the financing conditions for the governments of those countries stabilised, these deviations from the capital key decreased again. The capital key in itself is therefore not mandatory in this type of operation, but is, of course, an important indication. In order to ensure that ECB policies do not promote moral hazard, the ECB may also provide for other measures to ensure that the incentive to conduct sound fiscal policies is not limited. President Lagarde said very clearly this morning at the ECB Forum in Portugal that the new fragmentation instrument will contain sufficient safeguards to encourage healthy fiscal policies of Member States. This concerns not only the monetary but also the budgetary front. That is why, at European level, I am also in favour of keeping the SGP reform sufficiently high on the agenda, despite the extension of the general escape clause, as this may also be a sign of stability in the discussions that will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u145	Madam President, Minister, I can only hope that the ECB will take measures that encourage a healthy fiscal policy on the part of the Member States. However, we have heard this promise from the ECB a number of times in recent years and it has not always become a reality. That is why I would like to stress this capital key, in order to maintain an important criterion in order to ensure that there will be no monetary transfers, that there will be no debt union. I have also found a very good spokesman, Friedrich Merz, who you probably know as the chairman of the German Christian Democrats, of the CDU. He gave a nice presentation in Parliament last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u146	As you can see, applause is given when we defend sound fiscal policy and the maintenance of the capital key. It's like this in the German Parliament. I am sure it will also be the case here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u147	Mr Loones, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u148	Questions Nos 55029069C by Mr Senesael and 55028669C, 55028775C, 55028832C, 55028882C, 55028912C by Mr Vermeersch are transformed into written questions, together with questions Nos 55029136C by Mr Vermeersch and 55029145C by Mr Vermeersch. From Roover. Ms. Cornet also converted her questions Nos. 55028379C, 55028405C and 55029162C into written questions. Questions Nos 55029185C Mr Vanden Burre and 55027782C by Mr Laaouej are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u149	(...) You must have it from your own party mates to stay here for so long. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u150	I said, "You must have it from your own partymates to sit here for so long."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u151	It's always like this! In the best families!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u152	Mr President, I have a question about the tax advantages for children in co-parenting for the Flemish property tax. In Flanders, the tax relief is linked to the address of residence of children. As a result, co-parenting only benefits the parent in which the child is dominated from the tax relief, while in many situations both parents take care of their children part of the time. The Constitutional Court has ruled that this regime is discriminatory. People in co-parenting are not treated equally because children can only be dominated in one place. Does the Constitutional Court's position also affect the federal government? Are there, in your opinion, any tax provisions that need to be adapted? As far as tax co-parenting is concerned, the tax-free sum is evenly distributed among co-parents. If a co-parent later has an additional dependent child in a new relationship, the amount of the duty-free sum depends on the actual direct debit of the child in co-parenting. Are you aware of this distinction? Do you think that this distinction should be adjusted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u153	Although the benefits for children in co-parenting are in principle shared between both parents, there may indeed be a difference in the calculation of the benefits for children in co-parenting in newly composed families. This difference is due to a progressive increase in the tax-free allowances for dependent children. For a newly composed family with 3 dependent children, of which 2 in co-parenthood, the amount of the tax-free allowance for the tax year 2022 is EUR 7,380, which is the supplement for 3 dependent children, which is EUR 9,500, less half of the charge for 2 dependent children, 4,240 divided by 2, or 2,120 euros. That'll be 7,380 euros. For a newly constituted family with a dependent child and two children in co-parenting, who are not dependent, the supplement is EUR 3,770: the sum of the dependent child's supplement, EUR 1,650, and half of the two dependent children's supplement, EUR 2,120. This difference between two families would not exist if the same allowance were to be paid for each child and, therefore, if the progressivity of dependent children's allowances were to be waived. The two newly constituted families would then be entitled to the full allowance once for their dependent children and twice for half of that allowance. Tax co-parenting is now also being abstracted for the company's withholding tax. The parent who has the dependent child will receive the full benefit for dependent children in the farm levy. The other parent didn't. The progressive increase in allowances for dependent children is another major obstacle here. A system with equal allowances for each child might simplify the implementation of tax co-parenting in the company's withholding tax. However, it would be even easier to work with a direct tax reduction per dependent child instead of a tax-free sum on which a tax is calculated. A direct reduction can simply be cut by half for children in co-parenting, both in the company tax and in the personal income tax. The maximum amount of the tax credit for dependent children is currently determined on the basis of the number of dependent children. Children in a co-parenting scheme thus increase the maximum amount of the tax credit for the family they are dependent on, but not for the family to which part of the tax-free allowance is transferred. I will ask my administration to draw up proposals so that children in co-parenting are taken into account in that last family too, in order to determine the maximum amount of the tax credit. It seems logical to me to charge half of the maximum amount for children in co-parenting for each parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u154	Minister, that last conclusion is also entirely my conviction. I very much look forward to the proposals that will be drawn up in this area. Every child equal in equal circumstances, that's what I'm striving for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u155	Minister, the introduction of a minimum tax worldwide is an important moment in international tax cooperation. It is an important step to counter circumvention practices. The implementation path is ambitious and starts from the work of the OECD. A directive is being drawn up at European level to introduce the minimum tax. It is important that Belgium cooperates constructively and proactively in the creation of a minimum worldwide tax. Of course, I support the rapid implementation of the global agreement, but it is also important that the legislation in force is well thought out. In this context, it is important to maintain the competitiveness of certain sectors. Minister, in accordance with the government agreement, how will you ensure Belgian competitiveness in the transposition of the OECD pillar 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u156	In accordance with the government agreement, we will ensure that the competitiveness of certain important sectors of the Belgian economy is preserved. That will translate into several aspects. Firstly, for the transposition of Pillar 2 of the minimum global tax, I will propose a technical impact, which must, of course, be in line with the model rules of the inclusive framework established by the OSO. It is essential that the important sectors of the Belgian economy can continue to make a positive international contribution to increasing foreign competition and thus sustainably attract investment on Belgian soil. This requires that, where necessary, own taxation be adapted to the possibilities offered by the model rules. Neighboring countries have already sent out strong signals to promote their attractive investment climate. It is therefore important to switch to the same sentence in good time and thus to give oxygen to the economically important sectors in their investment decisions towards Belgium. It is these investments that guarantee the preservation and creation of jobs. Such large investment decisions are made today and are only visible on the ground years later. Secondly, this transposition will create a completely new regulation that is not in line with, but rather complementary to, corporate taxation as we know it today in our fiscal landscape. This means that the overall minimum tax at legislative level cannot simply be integrated into the existing rules, but should in principle be regulated as a sort of separate matter. Also, in order to align implementation with the OECD rules and the EU directive in the most appropriate way, some adaptation of our current system will be inevitable. In line with the coalition agreement, this must be done clearly in order to preserve our competitiveness. Given the complexity of this issue, the implementation of the minimum tax for both my administration and for companies subject to the global minimum tax requires a thorough effort to ensure that everything is done at operational level when it comes into force. Legal certainty is essential. In order to ensure a clear understanding of the rules and a correct, but smooth application of the overall minimum tax, it is in everyone's interest that this should be brought to a workable practice in dialogue. Clear rules and adequate administrative support can avoid disputes as far as possible. Moreover, even today, international disputes are being dealt with by my administration, by mutual agreement, expertly and smoothly. I would, of course, like to continue with this line for the conversion of Pillar 2 in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u157	Minister, I agree that the implementation of regulation is best done in consultation with the taxpayer. However, I wonder whether a different minimum tax could be justified under the principle of equality. I am thinking, for example, of a minimum tax for energy producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u158	Mr President, may I urge the Minister's question and answer to be included exhaustively in the report? After all, the problem concerns many people, for emotional reasons among others. There is a lot of discussion about this and some time ago the debate was also held in the media. For parents of a lifeless child, a so-called star child, there is a severe emotional period. Moreover, they face various legal and social barriers. For several years, the civil servant has been issuing a certificate of declaration of a lifeless child when a child has died after a period of pregnancy of one hundred and eighty days. The personal tax recognises starchildren as full-fledged children. Parents are entitled to the tax-free allowance for a dependent child and the increased tax-free allowance for children under the age of 3 years. Although the government is aware of the existence of a star child through registration in the population register, that information is not automatically included in Tax-on-web. Parents in such a situation have no message of administrative obligations or are not aware of all tax applications. I therefore think it is appropriate to automatically charge the information from the civil booth in Tax-on-web. Minister, do you support this view? What initiatives are needed to make this possible? When could such a link be applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u159	Deadborn children, or lost after a miscarriage and pregnancy of at least 180 days, during the taxable period, shall be deemed to be an effective part of the taxable person's family and parents shall therefore be entitled to the allowance on the duty-free allowance for dependent children and the additional allowance on the duty-free allowance for dependent children under the age of three. The child is not registered in the population register and therefore has no national number, which means that this information is not automatically communicated to my administration, which cannot therefore be included in Tax-on-web either. However, the civil servant will draw up an act of civil declaration of a lifeless child. It goes without saying that, in such circumstances, the administration must do its best to help parents with the various obstacles they face. In the field of taxation, this is by ensuring that they receive the allowances to which they are entitled without much difficulty. Moreover, in accordance with the only once principle, citizens should not communicate the same data more than once when they have already been communicated to another federal administration. My administration will therefore contact the Home Office as soon as possible in order to have access to information concerning the declaration of lifeless children, so that this can be included in the pre-filled declaration of the parents concerned as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic835x.u160	Minister, the end of your answer is very important and I hope that it can be implemented in the short term. That seems possible and perfectly feasible to me, with respect for privacy.
