ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u1	Minister, the Palestinians in the West Bank and East Jerusalem have been living under a criminal and illegal military occupation that demands a Palestinian life almost every day for 55 years. Neither the emergency services nor the journalists are spared from Israel's apartheid state. Since 2000, the occupying army has already killed some 50 journalists, while at the moment it is also holding 11 journalists in inhumane conditions. A few weeks ago, it was Mrs Shireen Abu Aqleh, a well-known and popular reporter for Al Jazeera, who has been reporting courageously and steadfastly for decades where Israel strikes. Last month, she had only just gotten out of her car in Jenin, on the West Bank, with her very recognizable bulletproof blue vest in large, flashy letters PRESS, and with a helmet on, when a bullet by a sniper of the Israeli army hit her under the ear. She died instantly. The Israeli regime made it clear once again that it does not respect the freedom of the press or the Geneva Conventions. Colleagues who tried to reach her were in turn shot at. One of them got a bullet in the back, but he survived happily so he could testify to what happened. With this cold-blooded murder, the Israeli army was not ready for its test piece. Barely a few hours later, they attacked Shireen's family's house, trying to terrorize her grieving family and friends. When her coffin was carried from the hospital to the church for her funeral, they even managed to attack the funeral procession and the carriers with tear gas, batons and Stungranaten. The whole world could see to what crimes and misdeeds the Israeli army could degrade itself to, in a scene that, for example, brought nasty and cold memories to many South African spectators. Meanwhile, settlers in Al-Khalil or Hebron took advantage of the absence of Palestinians, who at that time were massively present at the funeral ceremony, to occupy and seize their homes. That's the state of Israel's modus operandi. Minister, I do not think there is any excuse for these crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by the occupying army, just as Europe and Belgium have no excuse for 55 years not to sanction or punish Israel, and certainly not to favour it as a privileged trading partner. We have indeed seen over the last few months, remember the debate we have just had, how quickly and decisively the government and the European Union, rightly, respond to an illegal invasion and criminal occupation. However, the Palestinians have been waiting 55 years for the same decisive political response and measures against the illegal occupation of a country. They too have been courageously resisting the criminal occupation. When will your government finally stop its policy of double standards and two weights and condemn violations of international law equally throughout the world? This also with deeds, so that sanctions can be imposed for what the State of Israel has been doing for years, namely violating international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u2	Prime Minister, I asked you several questions in two steps. I won't read it. They try to describe a context of radicalisation of the Israeli authorities, a context of violence marked by the expulsion of 1,200 Palestinians living in eight villages in the occupied territories – which constitutes a war crime and a violation of international humanitarian law. The context is marked by the death of journalist Shireen Abu Akleh – I want to quote her name before you and this commission. This context is also marked by the radicalization of the Israeli ultra-nationalist movement, the settler movement. Sunday took place the "flag march" which saw several tens of thousands of extremist and fanatic Israelis marching through the streets of Jerusalem shouting "Death to the Arabs". I give you the most violent insults. I refer you to the set of questions in my written text. In the end, my questions are summed up in one: what are the limits that Israel will have to cross in order for us to finally embark on sanctions to stop the crazy train that the Israeli government has become today? What are the red lines, the limits he will have to cross in order to call for a reaction other than those lenifying words that are always heard and those soft reactions? We discussed the situation in Ukraine for two hours. We have discussed sanctions against Russia, which is attacking its neighbour, and I fully support them. I read an article by Rony Brauman, former President of Reporters Without Borders, published in Le Monde today or yesterday. I quote: "Invasion, dispossession, annexation do not lead to sanctions." He's talking about Palestine. I continue: "Military occupation, the colonization of occupied territories, a war crime daily and in slow motion, has been the subject of only timid steps on the part of the International Criminal Court. Here, the words that aggravate are avoided by Western governments in favour of used formulations until they become anachronistic: in the face of the abuses of the Israeli army and the settlers it protects, it seems to worry about the endangerment of a "peace process" that has been dead and buried for more than twenty years, its desire for a "two-state solution", a desiccated ritual invocation, and we move on to something else." He adds: "The Ukrainians mobilized for the sovereignty of their country are engaged in a legitimate fight for which they enjoy broad international support. Palestinians resisting the occupation of their country are no less legitimate. But the support that is due to them is ugly, at least diplomatically, when it is not criminalized." I sum up my speech with this quotation and the question I have addressed to you. When will the limit be exceeded?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u3	Prime Minister, it is still an area in full swing, in all respects. We must be absolutely very critical of everything that is happening there, but in all directions. We must not fall into one-sidedness there. The honourable Member just asked about the red lines and when we reach the limit of what is acceptable. We see that the so-called Abraham path is just getting new impetus at the moment. Yesterday, Israel concluded a free trade agreement with the Emirates. These are historical conditions, in an area that is very flammable. Apart from the concerns expressed by my fellow Members - and I am interested in your reaction to this - we see agreements being concluded between countries that have been known as enemies of one another for decades. So there is a process of relaxation going on there, and we must not lose sight of that process. I hope that this aspect too will not be forgotten. Against this background Amnesty International has issued a report assessing the complex situation in Israel and Palestine. It uses very sharp terms. Israel would be guilty of a system of apartheid. That's a heavily loaded word. There was also a reference to South Africa just now. The fact that Israel has problems with this was predictable and can be put in place in itself. However, the Dutch Government also expressed its disagreement with those conclusions through the Foreign Minister Wopke Hoekstra. She has commented on this point. Apartheid is, after all, a specific legal term. So I have a few questions. Have you taken note of Amnesty International's report? What is your attitude, compared to the attitude of the Dutch Government, towards the terminology used? Can you agree to this, or can you agree to the concerns expressed by the Dutch Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u4	Prime Minister, on Wednesday, 4 May, the Israeli Supreme Court approved the expulsion order for eight Palestinian villages from Masafer Yatta in southern Hebron, the occupied West Bank. Approximately 1,200 Palestinian women, men and children are now at risk of deportation and destruction of their homes. A number of them have in fact already suffered this fate since then. Sixteen Belgian NGOs condemned the decision of the Israeli Supreme Court and called on Belgium and the European Union not only to condemn Israel's violation of international law, but also to take measures to put an end to the apartheid regime and Israeli settlement policy and to increase political and financial support for the Palestinian population. Masafer Yatta is located in Area C of the occupied West Bank and is therefore under the total control of the Israeli army. In 1981, Israel decided to establish a new "fire zone" (known as "zone 918") covering 300 km2 in the Masafer Yatta area. In the West Bank, these shooting areas occupy 18 per cent of the area. In 1999, the Israeli army expelled 700 Palestinians from the area on the pretext that they were "living illegally in a shooting zone". Residents appealed with the help of the Association for Civil Rights in Israel. The Supreme Court then issued a preliminary decision that allowed Palestinian residents to return to their villages. Residents have been conducting court proceedings for more than 22 years to prove that their presence in the field is prior to the establishment of the shooting zone. The Supreme Court decision of 4 May rejected this idea and confirmed the order for the expulsion of residents of eight villages in the Masafer Yatta region, which would be one of the largest mass expulsions of Palestinians in decades and another example of the de facto annexation policy that the colonizer was constantly imposing on the ground. As a reminder, forced displacement is considered a violation of international humanitarian law under article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, and a war crime under the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. In its judgment, however, the Court in Israel rejected the argument that the expulsion of civilians from the area would constitute a violation of international law, stating that when international law conflicts with Israeli law, the latter prevails. This speaks volumes about compliance with this regime for international law. On 10 May 2022, the European Union declared that "the expansion of settlements, demolition and expulsion are illegal under international law". The European Union condemns these possible projects and urges Israel to put an end to demolitions and evictions, in accordance with its obligations under international humanitarian and human rights law. The establishment of a shooting zone cannot be considered a compelling military reason for transferring the population under occupation. As journalist Amira Hass notes in the Israeli daily Haaretz, Israeli judges disregard international law because they know that Israel will not be punished for the expulsion of Palestinians from Masafer Yatta. The absence of concrete measures perpetuates the impunity enjoyed by Israel for its frequent violations of international law. Belgium and the European Union condemn this flagrant violation of international law. But words are no longer enough and must be accompanied by actions. Concrete steps must therefore be taken to put an end to the apartheid regime and Israel's settlement policy. That is why the 16 Belgian NGOs ask the Belgian Government and the European Union to significantly deepen their policy of differentiation towards Israeli settlements, in particular by imposing a ban on trade with Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories. NGOs simply ask what your government has already promised in its coalition agreement. The PTB fully supports this request, but it obviously does not go far enough. Belgium and the European Union have shown this year how capable they are of reacting with firm acts to criminal invasion and illegal occupation. Prime Minister, why, therefore, this constant hesitation for 55 years now to punish the occupation of the apartheid regime? Why these double standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u5	Madam President, I refer to the text of the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u6	Prime Minister, I will come back to the three main news items. The first is a new forced displacement of population, as there are every day, but it concerns 1,000 people here; the second is the murder of a journalist a few days ago and, finally, the conclusions of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights who confirms the crime of apartheid against Palestinians. As far as population displacement is concerned, I am now learning that tanks and bulldozers are on their way to Masafer Yatta. We are therefore about to let the current Israeli government, like the previous ones, expel the largest number of Palestinians since 1967, with all the consequences that this will entail at the local level first, but also at the international level. Displacement is a war crime, a crime under international humanitarian law. I assume that we agree unanimously on this point. In addition, yesterday a letter was published from nine renowned Israeli personalities, including the former Ambassador to France, for example, or the former President of the Knesset, the Israeli Parliament. In this letter to Mrs Wilmès and to you, they congratulate you on the measures already announced with regard to differentiation and encourage you to go further and put in place the ban on colonial products. These nine Israeli personalities still want to believe in peace and the two-State solution. If I link the policy of differentiation with the displacement of people in the West Bank, I must also inform you that the Israeli government announced this morning that new constructions, new settlements, will be put back on the table in zone E-1. Located near Jerusalem, this small area allows for a passage of Palestinians from the north of the West Bank to the south. If this area, like many places in the West Bank, is occupied by settlements, it will definitely cut the entire West Bank into two. The second current issue is the accusation of apartheid against the Israeli government. This is not only an accusation published by Amnesty International, it has also been documented by Yesh Din and B-Tselem, which are Israeli NGOs, and it has been confirmed by Michael Lynk, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights. Forced displacement of populations, grabbing of resources, double legal system, infrastructure reserved for settlers: the list is long, which tends to prove the crime of apartheid. One concrete example: for many years, I know that a Palestinian in Zone C, particularly in the Jordan Valley, does not have the right to build a well to capture water, while next door an Israeli settler can build wells up to 400 m deep and even then sell the water that he has captured at an exorbitant price to the Palestinians. This is an example of apartheid, contrary to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Netherlands or others can say. These facts have been objected to in reports. The latest news is tragic. This is the murder of Shireen Abu Akleh. She was killed by an Israeli army fire. CNN confirmed this in a very thorough investigation that was recently published. Here, the Israeli authorities first denied the involvement of their soldiers by accusing them of Palestinian fire. They eventually considered that it was possible that this "lost" shot was made by the Israeli army. As I said, based on the analysis of several videos, the American channel CNN claims, contrary to the Israeli statements, that no confrontation took place around the journalist, but that it was a targeted attack by the Israeli army on the journalist, and therefore, as I said, a murder. In fact, this attack is not isolated. On 15 May 2021, the building housing Associated Press and Al Jazeera in Gaza was also targeted by Israeli strikes. It should also be recalled that four journalists have died during the marches of the return to Gaza in recent years. Here are my various questions on these issues, Prime Minister. Does the government intend to recognize the crime of apartheid against Palestinians, like the United Nations and many NGOs, including Israeli NGOs, do? The crime of apartheid is similar, under international law, to a crime against humanity which involves intervention by third States to stop it. What, then, is Belgium's action to stop this crime of apartheid? What concrete measures is the Belgian government taking to protect persons threatened with forced transfer to Masafer Yatta? What measures does the Belgian Government intend to propose to respond to this gradual annexation of Area C in the West Bank? A resolution was passed in Parliament calling for sanctions to be put in place in case of annexation. So, what about it? What is the status of our policy of differentiation? When is a clear and clear ban on settlement products on our territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many concerns about developments in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories. I have already replied to a number of questions at the Parliamentary Assembly on 12 May, in particular on the issues of events in Jerusalem in response to Mr Ben Achour's questions and on la marche du drapeau in response to the questions put by Mr Boukili and Mr De Vuyst. The events of recent weeks in Jerusalem have been troubling, and Belgium has reacted at various levels. A call for de-escalation was made to the authorities concerned. Any provocation during a period when the Islamic fast month of Ramadan, the Jewish Passover and the Christian Easter coincided is to be avoided. Belgium also recalled that the status quo of holy places must be respected and guaranteed. This is our constant position. Our two diplomatic posts have also been very active on the ground, both in Jerusalem and in Tel Aviv. There were meetings with government officials and representatives of political parties to better understand the dynamics at work and to convey the above-mentioned message. At the European Union level, similar messages were sent to the Israeli and Palestinian authorities, including by the European Union Special Representative for the Middle East Peace Process, Mr. Sven Koopmans. On 29 May I was shocked by the violence and provocations surrounding the flag march. The EU representative in Jerusalem has publicly expressed his concern about physical violence and racist songs against Palestinians by marchers. He also regretted the provocations at the Esplanade of Mosques and called for respect for the status quo. As I have already said, respect for the status quo in the holy place is a constant policy of Belgium and I can only agree with the statement made by the EU representative. This revival of tension reminds us that the political horizon must be restored. Faithful negotiations leading to a two-state solution will have to be restarted at some point. In the meantime, it is of the utmost importance that its feasibility be preserved on the ground. With regard to Al Jazeera's journalist, Shireen Abu Akleh, who was killed in Jenin on 11 May, as I have already said before you, I was deeply shocked by her death. It was an icon of Arab journalism, known by tens of millions of viewers around the world. Palestinian journalists covering the situation in the occupied territories were paying a heavy toll. As UN human rights experts pointed out in their statement of 13 May, more than forty Palestinian journalists have been killed since 2000 and hundreds more injured or victims of violence. As you know, Belgium, together with the European Union, has called for a transparent and thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of Mrs Shireen Abu Akleh. I was also particularly shocked by the violence during the funeral procession of Shireen Abu Akleh. The European Union, through its High Representative, has condemned the disproportionate use of violence and the disrespectless behaviour of the Israeli police towards the participants in the funeral procession. As the High Representative stressed, making a peaceful farewell possible and making the mourners mourn in peace without intimidation or humiliation is the minimum of human respect. I couldn't put it better. I now come to Masafer Yatta, the threat of forced transfer of more than 1,200 Palestinians and the expansion of settlements. You are asking me about the threats to Masafer Yatta and more particularly about the plight of 1,200 Palestinians threatened with forced transfer. At the same time, I would like to refer to the decision of the Israeli authorities to move forward on plans for the construction of more than 4,000 housing units in the settlements, as this development is fully within the framework of the active settlement policy of the occupied Palestinian territories. Belgium and the European Union have responded with the utmost clarity to this development. On 11 May 2022, several countries of the European Union, including Belgium, undertook a process with the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On that occasion, our Ambassador and other representatives of the Member States reiterated our firm opposition to any form of settlement expansion throughout the occupied Palestinian territories. The construction of more than 4,000 new housing units in the settlements, including in the deepest part of the West Bank, if successful, would constitute a flagrant violation of international law and would seriously undermine all efforts aimed at preserving the possibility of a two-State solution and a just, lasting and comprehensive peace between Israelis and Palestinians. As far as Massafer Yatta is concerned, we have noted that the first destruction of Palestinian structures and homes took place on 11 May, thus increasing the risk of forced relocation of these communities. We are deeply concerned about the situation and urge Israel to stop all destruction and expulsion activities. On 13 May Belgium, together with 13 other EU Member States, issued a very clear joint statement on these developments. Several European diplomats and also our Consulate General in Jerusalem have expressed Belgium's solidarity by visiting Massafer Yatta. With regard to the need to preserve the feasibility of a two-State solution, it was more necessary than ever for Israel to refrain from taking unilateral measures. Israel and the Palestinian Authority must continue dialogue in order to improve the daily lives of their citizens and preserve the feasibility of the two-State solution pending the resumption of a credible political process. The European Union must play a much more visible role in resolving the conflict. Last year, Minister Wilmès pleaded, at European level, for an examination of all the levers available to us with regard to the parties to the conflict. In this way, a coherent and well-thought-out European policy must be implemented, a policy that uses the levers to encourage the parties to the conflict to dialogue and, hopefully, to resolve the conflict. Our country will continue to stress this point. With regard to sanctions or the deepening of the policy of differentiation, many of you call for sanctions against Israel. The government agreement provides that Belgium, together with its European partners like-minded, will work on the notification of reactive measures in the event of an Israeli annexation. This decision was part of a very special context that is not the one we know today. In a context where colonization policy continues, the government has worked to deepen Belgium's policy of differentiation, in application of European regulations and case law in this field. In November 2021, the Minister for Foreign Affairs published the conclusions of the Working Group on the subject. Several administrations should now be given time to carry out an analysis and review their internal procedures in application of the differentiation agreement. It is therefore up to everyone to ensure that what has been agreed is properly implemented. As regards apartheid, Belgium has taken note of the various reports of various Palestinian, Israeli and international human rights organisations, as well as of the report submitted by the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the territories occupied since 1967, Mr Michael Lynk, to the 49th session of the Human Rights Council. As regards the qualification of apartheid, Belgium points out that in its case law the International Criminal Court did not rule on the elements of apartheid. It is therefore difficult to determine how the court would assess the situation in Palestine with regard to the criterion of domination of one so-called racial group over another. Regardless of the qualification of the regime applicable to the Palestinians, Belgium and the European Union intend to continue their efforts to respect international law, in particular international human rights legislation and international criminal law. For example, with our strengthened differentiation policy, we are sending out the signal that we do not accept the occupation of the Palestinian territories. A question was also asked about the UN Commission of Inquiry on occupied Palestinian territory. Belgium has supported the organisation of the 30th special session. That special session led to the adoption of a resolution with a mandate from the UN Committee of Inquiry. The next session of the Human Rights Council will start on 13 June. The report of the UN Commission of Inquiry has not yet been published.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u8	Mr Prime Minister, I took note of your reply, which was very long and detailed. Allow me, however, to say that I have the impression that you were not very passionate in your reply, when, for example, in other situations where human rights are violated in other parts of the world, I can see much more passion in your discourse. I can only conclude and once again conclude that there is once again a heavenly difference with countries that are regarded as geopolitical and economic partners of the European Union and of our country. At that time, human rights or the universality of human rights play a less important role than when human rights violations take place in other parts of the world, which we then regard as self-explained geopolitical or very strategic rivals. It's been noted. In the meantime, Prime Minister, since the murder of the journalist Agleh, Israel has once again attacked a number of funeral tones and ceremonies with brutal violence. At that time, one of the carriers of the coffin of Walid al-Sharif, a young man who was murdered by the occupying forces, and others by extremist settlers were attacked during the daily invasions of the Al-Aqsamoskee. I just want to point out that the violence is continuing. It's also systematic. The Israeli government or the Israeli State is committing organized violence against the Palestinian people every day. I am also disturbed by the framing as if the conflict should be seen as a conflict between two parties on an equal footing. You say that this is a complex conflict and that we need to get the process going again with a two-state solution. Mr Prime Minister, what is happening in reality on the ground is that we are talking about a people who are being oppressed and an aggressor, in particular a state that systematically violates international law. So it is very clear what this is about. I can see no intellectual difference between one situation and another, in which, for example, country A attacks and occupies country B, such as Russia and Ukraine, for which sanctions are rightly requested. It is true that we would have preferred targeted sanctions rather than collective punishment. That's one thing. However, when a country such as Israel has for 55 years ignored international law and organized a criminal occupation and even institutionalized apartheid in the occupied, annexed and colonised territories, there are at most rhetorical convictions. Then I do not hear you passionately pleading for sanctions that would be in force until Israel finally respects international law. I am surprised to hear you say that the International Criminal Court does not currently have the case law or the elements to rule on the qualification of apartheid. However, that is precisely the result of Israel's refusal to cooperate with the International Criminal Court in order to obtain that recognition. It's starting to pile up, Prime Minister. Mrs Kitir, the Minister for Development Cooperation, was denied access to Gaza. In the meantime, I think the committee chairman already knows that the foreign mission from this committee to Israel will not be able to continue either, because the Israeli authorities do not like it. There is the judgment of the Israeli Supreme Court of 4 October, in which it has once again been decided that 1,200 people will be expelled from their territory. It's too much to mention. Where's the red line? What does Israel have to do before this government takes action and even the minimum minimorum of its own coalition agreement in policy turnover and countermeasures? There is still trade with illegal settlements. It's acknowledged. That's proven to be a lot of times. It's documented. Michael Lynk, the UN... what else is going to happen? What a harrowing double sizes and two weights! You should be ashamed of yourself, Prime Minister! That is why we are tabling a motion of recommendation and asking the government to bring the war crimes of Israel, including the murder of the journalist Shireen Abu Agleh, before the International Criminal Court. We also call for urgent economic sanctions to be imposed on Israel and for this to be advocated at European level, so that Belgium and the European Union no longer finance Israel's illegal war against the Palestinian people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u9	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It's a shame that Mr. From Roover left, because I would have told him that Abraham's agreements, of which he rejoices, or that he perceives as good news for the region, have as their backbone the hostility or opposition of his signatories to Iran. They therefore have little to do with the situation of the Palestinians. One might even consider that this opposition to Iran has won over solidarity with the Palestinian people. I would also have told him, if he had stayed, that agreements between States did not cause people to cease being oppressed. Prime Minister: call for de-escalation, reminder of our positions, polite condemnations, regrets. You also said you were shocked. That's very good. I share this shock. But they're never just words. This remains words, which are also immediately contradicted by the Israelis' now totally uncomplexed actions. As soon as Europeans speak on this issue, they are immediately contradicted by the Israelis' actions, which go even further. You have to be blind not to see that, despite these words, nothing changes, and everything gets worse, in reality. For a long time, but especially for the last two or three years. However, Europeans are able to take action. Our legitimate and justified will to Russia proves this. Prime Minister, I fundamentally believe that there is an extraordinary issue for democracy. The principles of democracy, the principles underlying our defence of human rights, have a deadly enemy, acting like a poison. This deadly enemy is the logic of double standard, double standards. And the risk behind this, the risk behind these words, which are not followed by actions or actions of magnitude, is that these principles we pretend to defend will be decredible. What is the limit from which we will change our software in the wake of this systemic radicalization of the Israeli government? From when? How far must the State of Israel sink into horror in order to activate principles of recognition of the Palestinian State and important sanctions? I have said that since I have the honour of serving in this Parliament, we must now move from speech to action and completely review a software that has been wielded, emptied of its substance by the reality of oppression and apartheid in the Palestinian territories.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u10	Prime Minister, I am trying to find a reasonable explanation for your answer, but I can't find one. How can this principle of double standards be explained? How can you justify your inaction against Israel? There is no reasonable or acceptable justification! If the criterion is the violation of human rights, Israel is a champion! If it is that of international law, Israel violates it on a daily basis! You talked about the government agreement, explaining what would happen in the event of an annexation policy. But it is already applied! How much has the United Nations adopted resolutions condemning Israel for violating international law? Do you have any idea? There's more than seven. How much do you need? Eighty, nonante? Septuagint, isn't that enough? What other country has been condemned by seven hundred resolutions? And you expect a new violation of international law, but it has existed for decades! The only thing that justifies your answer and inaction, which is shameful for your government, is that you dare not attack Israel. You are afraid of the Israelis and Americans who are the unconditional allies of this country and who impose their vision of the world, which you are only following. Indeed, the values that you defend in turn, everywhere and on all TV sets, no longer exist for the Palestinians. The rights of these are violated every day and you don't move your finger! That is the reality. This hypocrisy is unacceptable! She's ashamed! And I don't understand how your government can justify it. Assassination of journalists is already done! Displacement of people, that's it! House destruction, it's done! Bombardments, killing of children and women, that's it! What more do you need? Yet you will do nothing! Even if Israel does exactly what you plan in your government agreement, makes a new annexation, violates international law again, you will do nothing because it is not you who decide your foreign policy or then your hypocrisy is nameless! People can't accept it, Prime Minister! In your government agreement, sanctions against Russia are not provided for. But when it violated international law, you made decisions. Why don't you do it for Israel? When the Israelis killed the Palestinian journalist, was it not a war crime? Why didn't you do anything? When they threaten to expel people from their homes, why don't you do anything? When they destroy facilities built by Belgian NGOs, you don't say anything! You are silent in all languages! This is unbearable and unacceptable! You have no justification for defending this hypocritical policy of double standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u11	I want to react. Yes, I can hear a lot of things, but you're saying lies. Belgium has always reacted when installations were destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u13	We have always responded and tried to see how we can work together with other countries. We always react on both sides: when there is violence on the Israeli and Palestinian sides. You're telling your side of the story. This is not the first time you have a very selective view of reality. The Belgian position is to react on both sides. What you're talking about is simply not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u14	Prime Minister, since you say you have reacted, please tell me what punishment has been imposed on Israel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u15	The Prime Minister has already answered this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u16	Perhaps we can have an adult discussion in this Parliament without reducing it, as you do every time. For example, this has already been explained by some here in the House, the policy of differentiation that we are pursuing, the method that Belgium uses is described as useful by many instances. You are trying to make it seem that Belgium is not reacting at all, it is not reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u17	I do not know of any Belgian sanctions against Israel. I don't see. Tell me if there's one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u18	Mr Devuyst, I am also interpelled. We have still not received an invitation from Israel. There are reasons for that. Character murder is committed on people who comment, including from the majority. I can say that the reaction is heard in Israel itself, because you referred to me for a moment. Mrs Reynaert, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u19	Madam President, I'm not finished! I'm finishing my speech. You say you're reacting. I am still waiting to see what sanctions you have taken against the State of Israel. There aren't any! The fact of reacting, of condemning with speeches is no longer enough and in no way prevents Israel from acting. Prime Minister, you can say what you want, and Mrs Van Hoof too, your international policy is hypocritical and double standards. Point on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. We understand that when something happens, which always explicitly condemns at diplomatic level, Belgium makes statements about it and seeks European partners for it. We support that, of course. Words matter, especially in diplomacy that's important. It is also apparent from the Israeli response that these words have an effect. However, we are looking forward to further action. You referred to the strengthened differentiation agreement, which I understand has not yet been implemented. We look forward to these results, because it is important that this happens effectively. We hope that this will be done in the shortest possible time. I do not think I have received an answer to my question as to whether the government is prepared to support the establishment of a national ban on settlement trade in the occupied territories. That question is also before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u21	That's the policy of differentiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u22	It was not entirely clear whether that particular point was in it, which is why we again asked whether this could be supported when a bill or bill is presented. Then there was the answer to the question of apartheid. You refer to the case law of the International Criminal Court. I was surprised at the answer, because there has to be an independent investigation into such matters. When you hear Mr De Roover's argument about this, which states that it is a human rights organisation that says it is apartheid, now is the custom to push human rights organisations into a corner, as happened with the six Palestinian NGOs. Here, however, it is the UN that says so. You can't have it more independently, because this international institution is monitoring international law. Belgium must support the vision on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u23	Madam Chair, I regret that the PTB was out because I would have liked to answer them a few things, not to sponsor my response on Facebook with a lot of money, but because truths need to be restored. We all have an interest in making fair comments, not for the political glorile, not for our election scores and not for Facebook videos, but for Palestinians who are waiting for coherence. It must be recognised that Belgium is the only European country to ask for financial compensation when there is destruction. It is Belgium that pushes towards a policy of differentiation, studies the prohibition of products from the colonies and asks the UN to hear organisations, such as DCI-Palestine, which has led to a diplomatic incident. Prime Minister, I do not hide from you that, for my group, we are not yet doing enough. Nevertheless, the truth must be restored. To make one believe that nothing is being done is to pass on despair to the Palestinian people who do not need it at this time when he is counting on us beyond political differences and personal glorioles. You mentioned annexation. I believe that we are in an annexation: zone E-1, I have told you about it; Masafer Yatta, it is very worrying. The annexation is progressive and is not an inauguration as the former Prime Minister hoped, but it extends from day to day. I really think we need to act. Nine renowned Israeli personalities who are not left-wing ecologists, but personalities on all political sides, ask you to step up the policy of differentiation, to stop the importation of settlement products into Belgium or even into Europe. I really believe that we are faced - 'we' are European policies - with a contradiction of continuing to defend a two-state solution and allowing successive Israeli governments to kill this solution on a daily basis. That's what's happening. I will conclude by recalling the words of the director of a cultural centre in the Aida camp near Bethlehem. He always said to me, "We Palestinians don't have the luxury of despair." That's what he's telling everyone. Prime Minister, in order to be in contact with Palestinians very often, I can tell you that despair is taking place in the Palestinian population and this can cause anger. We must give them hope through a coherent international policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u24	Prime Minister, the measures currently under consideration in the government's working group include the labelling of colony products. You responded to Mrs Reynaert's remarks by implying, or even explicitly saying, that in the differentiation measures there was a ban on products from the colonies. I think it would be an excellent thing and an excellent news if Belgium could move towards this ban. Labelling is certainly a step, but given the situation, it is not enough. Could you clarify your thinking on this point and tell us whether the government is indeed supporting the ban on settlement products?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u25	Indeed, there is labelling. The possibility of banning colony products is under consideration. This decision has not yet been taken at Belgian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u26	It is excellent news that this possibility is under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u27	They do excellent things from the government. It is a pity that the opposition apparently does not appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u28	Colleagues, I suppose we're gonna end with this. There are still some topical debates, but I will look with the employee when we can schedule them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u29	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Steven De Vuyst and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Steven De Vuyst and Mr Nabil Boukili and the Prime Minister's reply, with responsibility for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, - whereas the State of Israel has committed a gross violation of human rights and freedom of the press by killing the journalist Shireen Abu Aqleh in cold blood; - whereas the State of Israel has killed some 50 Palestinian journalists since 2000 and is currently holding eleven journalists in inhumane conditions; - whereas the State of Israel can continue to commit these human rights violations with impunity because, in particular, the European States and the European Union, as Israel's largest trading partner, refuse to take the appropriate measures; asks the government - to refer Israel's war crimes, including the murder of the journalist Shireen Abu Aqleh, to the International Criminal Court; - to impose economic sanctions on the State of Israel as a matter of urgency, and to plead for them at European level, so that Belgium and the European Union no longer finance the illegal war of the State of Israel against the Palestinian people." A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Steven De Vuyst and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Steven De Vuyst and Nabil Boukili and the response of the Prime Minister, responsible for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, - Whereas the State of Israel has committed a serious violation of human rights and freedom of the press by murdering journalist Shireen Abu Aqleh in cold blood; Considering that, since 2000, the State of Israel has murdered some 50 Palestinian journalists and is currently holding 11 journalists in inhumane conditions; - Whereas the State of Israel may continue to carry out these human rights violations without being disturbed by the fact that, in particular, the European States and the European Union, which are Israel's most important trading partners, refuse to apply adequate deterrent measures; asks the government - to bring Israel's war crimes, including the murder of journalist Shireen Abu Aqleh, before the International Criminal Court; - to quickly impose economic sanctions against the State of Israel and to plead that the same should be done at European level, so that Belgium and the European Union cease financing the illegal war waged by the State of Israel against the Palestinian people." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Steven De Vuyst and Mr Nabil Boukili and the Prime Minister's reply, with responsibility for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, - whereas since 1967 the State of Israel has been violating international law through its illegal occupation of the Palestinian territory and several United Nations Security Council resolutions; - whereas the State of Israel violates Article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention and, under the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, commits a war crime by forced displacement of population groups in the illegally occupied territories; - whereas the State of Israel can continue to commit these violations of international law and war crimes in full impunity by refusing, in particular, the EU Member States and the European Union as Israel's main trading partner to take appropriate dissuasive measures; asks the government - bring to the International Criminal Court the war crimes committed by Israel, including the forced displacement of population groups in the areas illegally occupied by Israel, - to impose economic sanctions on the State of Israel as a matter of urgency and to plead for them at European level, so that Belgium and the European Union stop financing the illegal war waged by the State of Israel against the Palestinian people." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Steven De Vuyst and Nabil Boukili and the response of the Prime Minister, responsible for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, - Whereas the State of Israel has violated international law and various United Nations Security Council resolutions since 1967 by maintaining its illegal occupation of the Palestinian territory; - Considering that the State of Israel violates article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, and commits a war crime under the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, through the forced displacement of populations in the illegally occupied territories; - Whereas the State of Israel may continue to commit such violations of international law and war crimes with impunity because of the refusal, in particular by the European States and the European Union, as Israel's main trading partner, to take appropriate deterrent measures; asks the government - to bring to the International Criminal Court the war crimes committed by Israel, including the forced displacement of populations in the territories it illegally occupies; - to impose economic sanctions on the State of Israel as a matter of urgency and to advocate to this end also at European level, so that Belgium and the European Union cease financing the illegal war waged by the State of Israel against the Palestinian people." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Liekens. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Goedele Liekens. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u30	Madam President, I would like to ask that the topical debate on Professor Djalali be given priority. That is a precarious situation. I know there are still precarious situations, but this is more than precarious. So, Prime Minister, I hope that you will be able to give time to do so in the near future. I realise, of course, that you have a busy agenda, but I urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic804x.u31	I was available at 4:00 this afternoon. I think, however, that unfortunately, an excessive proportion of those four hours went to the European debate. However, I am trying to find a new date as soon as possible.
