ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u1	Minister, when I submitted my question some time ago, employers' organisations heard the call for a review of indexation. However, research shows that this index is the best protection for purchasing power. At a time of rising inflation, in which many workers are struggling to survive despite measures such as the VAT reduction and the entry into force of the Social Energy Fund, I do not think such an attack is acceptable. What is your position on that? What are the recommendations of the National Bank in its latest investigation, which was cited in the press, but not really detailed? What conclusions do you draw from this for your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u2	Madam President, Minister, the increase in fuel prices remains the main current issue. Even today, we have heard that a further increase has been decided, which of course arouses the anger of the workers, rightly. This precariousness also affects the middle class. On 22 April last saw a nice demonstration of the trade union organisations in the framework of the action days in favour of purchasing power, and the meeting was given at the professional level for 20 June next, when a large national demonstration will be held. On May 1st, your party president said: "The workers have not forgotten the sinister record of these last five years of the MR-N-VA government's social regression." He then recalled that "the only solution, when companies earn profits, is to give workers and their representatives the freedom to negotiate wage increases". You know that we fully agree on this point. Will you, on your part, do everything you can so that we can review the 1996 law? What is the status of your discussions in the Vivaldi coalition with the MR? I guess it shouldn't be easy when you hear your president systematically criticizing the hardness and arrogance of the MR. We also hear about a project that is being drafted by the PS and Ecolo. Can you tell us more about this? Mr. Magnette also stated that workers' wages could be increased by introducing a tax on the richest. What are you going to do with this statement? As far as the increase in fuel costs is concerned, you reminded me last week in plenary that Vivaldi had actually released an envelope of 30 million but that there was no agreement with the social partners, for two reasons, in our view: on the one hand, this envelope is insufficient and, on the other hand, the employers do not want to give up anything. Will you plead for an increase in the amount of this envelope? Finally, what is the situation with regard to the assimilation of periods of temporary unemployment for holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u3	Madam President, Minister, for many months the unions have denounced the wage freeze caused by the 1996 Act. Changes in the law in 2017 prevent any negotiation, as the method of calculating the wage margin is favourable to employers. On the employers' side, it is rather the end of wage negotiations that is claimed. Thus, in FEB's 2030 memorandum, a simple market is proposed to trade unions: to eliminate wage disadvantage by drastically reducing ONSS contributions and strictly applying the 1996 law between 2025 and 2030, to eliminate automatic wage indexation and, ultimately, to abolish the 1996 law. Faced with inflation and rising energy and fuel prices, proposing the end of automatic wage indexation is a total disrespect for workers. Automatic wage indexation is more necessary than ever to prevent many citizens from tipping into poverty. Minister, automatic wage indexation is beneficial for our society as a whole, as it supports consumption while contributing to the financing of social security. It is not because of the need to review the 1996 Act that this mechanism should be abolished. Therefore, do we guarantee that the abolition of automatic wage indexation will not be put on the agenda by the end of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u4	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. First of all, I will reply very quickly and very directly to the last question put by Mrs Thémont, which is to know whether, as Socialist Minister for the Economy and Labour, I intend to question and even debate the automatic indexation of wages and allowances. The answer is, of course, no. No, no, no! It is a valuable mechanism for me to ensure that wages and allowances take account of price developments. It is a mechanism for protecting the purchasing power of a large part of the population. It is therefore clear, with the socialists within the government, that it is unthinkable, unacceptable and unthinkable to touch on the automatic indexation of wages and allowances. I now turn to the various forecasts and studies. As you know, a number of macroeconomic and sectoral analyses and indicators were published last week by the National Bank's teams, the Federal Planning Bureau and the FPS Economy, in the light of the work of the Expert Group on Buying Power and Competitiveness. Its mission is to provide the federal government with recommendations and ideas for action to deal with inflation and the economic challenges arising from the war in Ukraine. This shows, firstly, that, as far as the labour market is concerned, the effects of the corona crisis are largely absorbed and, secondly, that there are no effects on that labour market for the time being as a result of the war in Ukraine. However, after a strong recovery, employment expectations fall slightly over the coming period. On the basis of these elements, we continue to work and reflect on measures to support the purchasing power of the population. With regard to energy, the government has set itself an appointment clause, since the current protective measures run until the end of September. It is absolutely essential to evaluate them and, in view of the situation, to extend them. This weekend, I heard different party presidents or political leaders comment on the need to extend a series of measures. I agree with them on this point. We may need to change the support arrangements to make them more targeted and to make sure that we really help all those who need them, the most precarious, but also a large part of the middle class. Discussions are currently under way with my colleagues in the government. I now turn to the forecasts of the National Bank of Belgium. Mrs Vanrobaeys, it may have gone a little unnoticed, but it is true that the Governor of the National Bank of Belgium has indicated that, in the present situation, as we know it, there is no question of calling into question automatic wage indexation, and that we are not at present faced with a situation of spiralling wage-prices that would fit in with the duration. I repeat: there is no question of calling into question the mechanism of automatic indexation of wages and allowances. Mrs Moscufo, with regard to the discussions in the Vivaldi, as you mentioned, some are done by press between party presidents, or even directly, when they are called upon to debate on television sets or in other fora. I am thinking in particular of a debate that has recently taken place in front of a section of students. The positions are clear. I must not remind you of the positions of my political formation with regard to the protection of purchasing power, indexation, and the so-called 1996 law. I am not talking about the 1996 law, but about the 2017 law, since what is being questioned by the unions – and I can quite understand it – are the changes made under the previous government, making the indicative standard a peremptory norm. As you know, the debate will take place here in this committee and in this Parliament, because the trade union organisations will come to express themselves in response to the petition which has received nearly 90,000 signatures. The debate will therefore take place in this Parliament. I'm glad. Our government agreement does not call into question the 1996 law, but this agreement was negotiated and concluded at a time when we were emerging from the first wave of coronavirus and we did not know what the economic and social consequences of this crisis would be. At that time, we did not know what the economic and social consequences of this crisis would be. It was normal to be particularly careful. The situation has changed somewhat, although today we are facing other crises. We also saw that some elements were rather surprising. We can and we must rejoice. I am thinking in particular of the resilience and recovery of economic activity in Belgium and Europe, with the consequences of particularly large profit margins and almost never seen in our country, dividends – this is a global phenomenon – that have reached record levels, and for some big bosses – and I am limiting the scope of the increases that have taken place – especially those of the largest Belgian companies, wage increases equivalent to 14%. These are all elements that must be taken into account in our reflections, whether in support of purchasing power, in defence of the purchasing power of the population or in relation to a fair distribution of the wealth created in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the answers that I could give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. For me, that confirms two things. Firstly, investment as we did during the corona crisis keeps up the economy and employment. Secondly, the National Bank states that there is no need to constantly refer to the situation of the 1970s, as employers do. She even says it's an Indian story. Let that be exactly the difference between a government with socialists and a government without socialists. As socialists, we protect purchasing power and defend the index, since it has been proven to maintain purchasing power. We also continue to support other measures, such as VAT measures, the Social Energy Fund and relocation allowances. We must, of course, remain vigilant about the consequences of the war in Ukraine, which, despite all the measures taken, continues to impoverish our people. I really hope that there will also be an agreement today for the housekeepers and the removal allowance, another important point. However, we absolutely must protect the purchasing power of the middle class. The share of profits is always higher than the share of wages, hence our proposal for a purchasing power contribution to excess profits. Of course, we also support the trade unions in their demand for indicative wage standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. Again, I hear in a positive way that with your political formation you have made wage indexation a breaking point and I welcome it. On the other hand, far from me the idea of considering that wage indexation is not important. But the main challenge today is still to give workers freedom, to be able to negotiate real wage increases. I hope that you will rely on the social movement and the large number of demonstrators who will march on 20 June to impose this revision after that date. It's really urgent. However, you did not answer my question as to the status of the case concerning the assimilation of periods of temporary unemployment for the holiday money and the envelope of 30 million which we consider insufficient. You know it's very important. I also asked you about the problem of non-traders, namely those women who sometimes have to have a fuel increase of 200 euros per month with small wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. I, too, am pleased that the mechanism of wage indexation is not being addressed. As you said, we should not mention the 1996 Act, but rather the amendment to the 1996 Act, which took place in 2017. It is on the basis of this, of course, since we are moving from an indicative standard to a peremptory one. In the current context, a government agreement has been reached, but the situation can always evolve and change according to the current situation. I welcome, in any case, the forthcoming debate on this 1996 law in our Parliament. Not only do I look forward to hearing from the social partners but also from our political partners on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u8	Mr Minister, you indicated last time in this committee that the social partners are likely to reach agreement on the improper use of successive daily contracts. I have now read in Vision of the ACV that employers' organisations are creating problems just before the final meeting because they feel that job students should be excluded from this scheme. The ACV says that one out of every four day contracts now goes to job students and that it now receives complaints every day. The payment of holidays and catch-up is avoided. Job students with a day's contract do not receive a cancellation fee. In addition, their wages are broken down into pieces, which means that they are almost obliged to hire an accountant to know whether they are being paid correctly. Hence my questions. First of all, do you have a visual on the use of day contracts? Last year, I pulled the numbers. When it appeared that they had increased in number. Secondly, do you think that the social partners will reach an agreement on this? Is the meeting still going on? What deadline will you give the social partners? If, however, there is no agreement, let us be clear: I hope that a solution will be adopted. How will you implement the passage of the government agreement that will deal with the improper use of day contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u9	Mrs Vanrobaeys, I too hope that the social partners in the NAR will be able to find a balanced and workable solution as soon as possible, with the support of experts from the RSZ and the FOD WASO. The most recent meetings took place on 21 March and 25 April. Today and on 23 May, new meetings of the Commission are planned to refine the elaboration of the solution with the various actors concerned in accordance with the mandates available to the organisations in the NAR. As Minister for Employment, I take it for granted that there is confidence in the possibility for the social partners to reach an agreement on this matter. I will not comment on the possible exclusion of job students from the mandatory measures to avoid the improper and excessive use of successive day contracts. I leave that to the social partners, but the intention remains to provide greater security for the most young workers working on temporary work. If the two sides of industry fail to reach an agreement, I will put a proposal of my own on the government's table this year, but in order not to hypothesize the discussions of the two sides of industry, I will not anticipate the content of that proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u10	Minister, I have known since this morning that there was another meeting today. If another date were set, I hope that an agreement will be reached and that a solution will be found. In any case, I believe that we should stop the fact that people are in uncertainty for 10, 15 to 20 years and cannot take out a mortgage loan or start their lives because of these successive day contracts. As far as the job students are concerned, I think it is important for them to be included. I have another question about the number of accidents at work, but I think it is important that, when they first contact the labour market, job students should also be able to count on a good framework by their employer. I look forward to the agreement of the National Labour Council and, should that not happen, I am, of course, looking forward to your draft that we could expect before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u11	Minister, on March 24, you launched a national plan to improve the well-being of workers in the course of their work. This plan responds to the need to transpose the European strategic framework for health and safety at work. It was indeed urgent to take more account of the psychosocial risks and musculoskeletal disorders that are among the first causes of the explosion of the number of long-term patients, which we discussed at length this morning. Ensure better prevention, make labour inspection more effective, adapt to new telework practices, all of which are crucial issues for workers. It is also a priority lever to reduce the number of long-term patients. Minister, could you tell us more about the content of this action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u12	Mrs Bonaventure, indeed, on 24 March I launched a national plan to improve the well-being of workers in the course of their work. This plan, which describes the goals to be achieved in the area of well-being at work for the coming years, is evolving. This will be discussed annually with the social partners of the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. This will make it possible to adapt the national plan to take into account new challenges and unforeseen circumstances. In this plan, great attention is paid to the prevention of psychosocial risks and musculoskeletal disorders, as well as to the protection of workers exposed to hazardous chemical agents. The plan stresses the need for a zero vision of workplace accidents and also gives explicit attention to vulnerable groups among workers, such as those working at home. Another of the objectives of the plan is to promote the reintegration of workers with disabilities, a subject that we have indeed discussed at length this morning. This action plan also aims to support the actors within the company who are active in the field of welfare policy at work and to optimise the functioning of prevention services and social consultation. Finally, through occupational risk data exploration projects for sustainable work, we want to make exposure data more accessible. We are also seeking to develop quality regulations and a work inspection that works well, in other words better than today. Collaboration with all actors involved in the welfare policy of workers in the performance of their work will also take place. This also means, in particular, that synergies will be sought with areas falling within the competence of other federal ministers as well as federated entities, as well as European and international institutions. The ambitious and innovative plan that we have drawn up in collaboration with the social partners within the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work is available on the Employment SPF website. I therefore invite you to consult him and come back to me if you have any further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, especially this morning, prevention has an essential role to play in the well-being of workers who, like us, were eagerly awaiting this plan full of promises. I will certainly come back to you in the weeks or months to come with new questions to assess the status of this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u14	Mr Minister, a study by the KUL and Oxford commissioned by Fairwork shows that none of the five sub-platforms examined are good in terms of working conditions. Only meal delivery guy TakeAway scores enough. Striking is the zero score of the Yoopies and Top Help healthcare platforms. Researchers say that platform workers are not adequately insured against accidents at work, do not earn a guaranteed minimum wage, do not receive clearly defined employment contracts and do not have sufficient opportunities to participate in the platform for which they work. In addition, healthcare platforms ignore existing regulations, increasing informal work and even undeclared work. Were you informed of the study? What is your opinion on this? In line with the work deal, a better statute for platform workers should be established. The aim is to give platform workers a better framework through the employment relationship law. Can you give us an update on that? During a check of meal couriers from Deliveroo and Uber in Ghent by the Inspection of the RSZ and the Labour Inspectorate, according to a newspaper report a number of people were caught working under a false account. Can you confirm that? Does the Labour Inspectorate carry out similar investigations, and where are we with them? Many platform workers work under the tax peer-to-peer status. Is there any consultation with the Minister of Finance to deal with abuses in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u15	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the study carried out by the KUL and the University of Oxford at the request of Fairwork is indeed very interesting. The shortcomings identified strengthen my view that it is important to ensure that those working via digital platforms do indeed enjoy the labour rights and social benefits to which they are entitled. In Belgium, the regulation of the platform economy is vague. In particular, the undefined status of platform workers makes them particularly vulnerable, both in terms of exposure to health and safety risks and limited access to social protection and benefits. The employment deal should allow us to correctly establish the employment status of persons working via digital platforms. In addition, in order to provide real protection against the effects of accidents at work, the application of the Law on Accidents at Work of 10 April 1971, which requires insurance against accidents at work, is extended to selfemployed service providers. The draft law was adopted at first reading by the Council of Ministers and is currently being discussed by the social partners in the National Labour Council. With regard to the inspection of 26 January 2022 in Ghent, I can provide you with the following information. 13 checks were carried out, of which 4 were positive. 21 employees and 55 self-employed persons were involved. The inspectors identified two infringements concerning part-time work, three infringements concerning social security and two infringements concerning the status of foreign workers. The tax peer-to-peer status applies only to platforms in the collaborative economy. It is known that it is used by other platforms that do not belong to it. This issue falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister for Finance, but I have no doubt that he will ensure that the legislation is correctly applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am, of course, looking forward to the practical implementation of the work deal and therefore the step forward for platform workers becomes a reality. There is no denying that under the peer-to-peer statute there are also platforms that are not really part of the collaborative economy sensu stricto. I have already put several questions to the Minister for Finance; I have now tabled a motion for a resolution to deal with abuses under the peer-to-peer statute. At the best known platforms, Deliveroo and Uber, more than 80% of platform employees work under that statute. The peer-to-peer status was intended to reduce undeclared work, but a study by Fairwork now shows that it increases undeclared work and fraud. If the original objective is not achieved, then that status must also be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u17	Mr Minister, an SWT member who wants to return to work half-time is losing his entire SWT income. This creates an income trap that prevents these people from taking up work, because they are getting worse financially. This seems to be illogical legislation in the context of achieving an activity rate of 80%. Will you, if necessary, amend these regulations and grant the person concerned the SWT income pro rata? If you are not in favour of this, what are your reasons, taking into account that all efforts will be needed to achieve an activity rate of 80%?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u18	Mrs Samyn, an unemployed person with an SWT, i.e. unemployment with a single payment, receives an unemployment benefit from the RVA plus an additional allowance through his former employer. If this worker resumes work part-time, he is regarded as a wholly unemployed person and, in addition to the part-time wage, he may be entitled to an income guarantee benefit. The amount of this income guarantee benefit depends, inter alia, on the amount of the benefit as wholly unemployed and on the salary received for part-time employment. The amount of unemployment benefit as a wholly unemployed person may be different from that as an unemployed person with SWT. This is because, on the one hand, in the case of full unemployment, there is a higher wage limit, on the other hand, benefits are dependent on the composition of the family and have a degressive course, even though, in view of the professional history of such a worker, this will be only limited. In principle, the calculation of the income guarantee payment in the sense that the wholly unemployed person who goes to work part-time always has a higher income than in the case where he would remain completely unemployed. In addition, during part-time work, the worker shall retain the right to the supplementary allowance paid during the SWT on top of the unemployment benefit. It cannot therefore be said that this employee would lose his entire SWT income.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u19	Minister, it is part-time loss, I did not talk about total loss. We believe the SWT is deactivating. Figures from the end of June 2021 show that of the 7.719 non-working jobseekers who entered the system since April 2016 only 532 SWTs have taken up a job. This is only 7%, while the number of vacancies remains very high. It concerns workers who were active and are able to enter, but the current regime does not allow this to happen or allow it to happen. Flanders and Wallonia differ in terms of the labour market. Of course, there is little incentive on the Walloon side to put the older unemployed to work, because there is a problem with youth unemployment and there will be an earlier commitment to this group. That also makes sense, and it is a legitimate objective. However, Flanders has a different labour market and you should not look in the other direction when it comes to our greed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u20	Mr Minister, chocolate manufacturer Ferrero's production in Aarlen is still at a standstill following salmonella contamination that made people sick throughout Europe. At the meeting of 22 April between management and trade unions, it was agreed that staff would be paid their wages until 8 May. There is still no clarity as to what will happen afterwards. However, the BFSA has provided Ferrero with a list of tasks, which they must put in order before the factory becomes operational again. Are you or your services aware of the measures to be taken by the company before restarting? Is there any consultation between your services and the BFSA to ensure the follow-up of the measures? Is the Labour Inspectorate involved in this? What are their findings on workplace safety? It has been agreed that staff will be paid out until 8 May, but is there any certainty as to what will happen after 8 May if the restart has not yet been completed? My next question is about seasonal staff. A lot of people are working in the busy Easter period at the chocolate factory. They have no security on the payment of their wages. Have any agreements been made to compensate for their loss of income?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my thoughts go to the victims of this intoxication and, in particular, to the children who have been ill and some of whom have even had to be hospitalized. Arlon workers are also victims of this situation. You will not be surprised to learn that as Minister of Economy and Labour, it is essential for me to ensure the health and safety of consumers, but also of workers. As you know, a judicial investigation is under way to shed light on the situation. In any case, the plant will only be able to reopen once all the safety conditions have been met again. It is up to the BFSA to give the permission to restart production. The competent regional management of the General Supervisory Board of Welfare at Work was not contacted by the BFSA in connection with the restart. It is evident that it is the responsibility of the employer, assisted by his hierarchical line and the competent prevention service, to ensure that this restart can take place in safe, healthy and hygienic conditions. According to the information I know, Ferrero has a works council and a committee for prevention and protection at work. It is also the employer's responsibility to involve employees through these bodies through their representatives in the undertaking's activities. Management confirmed that salaries will continue to be paid until the end of May. In addition, clean-up work has already begun, and a significant part of the staff is and will be associated with it. The conditions of temporary unemployment do not seem to be met, since, on the basis of the information which has been disclosed at the moment, it appears that the impossibility of working is not independent of a fault of the employer. As indicated by you, employees with a temporary agreement would indeed be compensated. However, such compensation must take account of the duration of the contract in question which was concluded. I invite you to address the other questions on the AFSCA to my colleague Minister Clarinval, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. We hope that the activity will soon be able to return to a normal rhythm. I support you with regard to the role of the Business Council and the CPPT. I hope that things are done in a user-friendly way with the employer. We will be questioning Minister Clarinval about the AFSCA. We will follow this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u23	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is true that the BFSA should allow for the restart and that employee representatives have an important role to play in the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work in terms of the safety and well-being of workers. However, I had hoped, somewhere, that there would also be consultation with the Monitoring Welfare at Work so that it could assist them if necessary. In any case, I am pleased that wages are being paid until the end of May, which is a bit more than that, and that the workers are being involved in cleaning up the factory in Arlen, but also that temporary workers may fall back on income compensation through temporary unemployment. That's important when you're facing such drama from one day to the next. It is a tragedy for those who became ill, but also for those who count on employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u24	Mr Minister, my question concerns a pilot experiment and a courageous move by the Spanish left-wing minister who decided to ban dismissals in companies with temporary unemployment due to rising energy prices – a measure which we believe is quite consistent. He claims that "it would make no sense for us to spend public money by paying wages and social contributions to allow them to lay off". This Spanish minister is not a member of the Spanish Socialist Party, but belongs to the great socialist family. We thought you should be aware of this decision. We want to encourage you to move towards this decision-making or, in any case, to submit it to Vivaldi. Minister, would you agree with this proposal and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u25	Mrs Sánchez, I am very interested in what is being done in Spain by the progressive government of Pedro Sánchez. We regularly carry common dossiers at European level. I am thinking of the initiatives for the minimum wage, the establishment of an emergency procedure in the event of social imbalances in order to keep up with what exists at Ecofin Council level in macroeconomic matters, the initiatives on temporary unemployment and the SURE mechanism. Indeed, we have a lot of convergences with our Spanish counterparts, particularly in order to move the European institutions towards a more social Europe. Several legislative proposals to prohibit dismissals when companies were in receipt of temporary unemployment were tabled in this assembly during the Coronavirus crisis. These proposals have been debated in your committee and have been the subject of opinions from the Legislative Section of the Council of State. Unfortunately, they were unable to reach a majority in this assembly. I'm sorry. That's a fact. Parliamentary democracy is the vote and support of a parliamentary majority, and it has not been able to meet on these bills. I now come back very quickly to the temporary unemployment as it was set up during the crisis of the coronavirus and prolonged due to the war in Ukraine. It is a mechanism that, fortunately, has been able to serve as a particularly effective shock absorber since we have not known – and I am glad about it – in our country of the waves of bankruptcies and layoffs as announced before it was put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. I know that you have synergies with other parties at European level, particularly with Spain. Having said that, I was not asking for a parliamentary initiative. I just wanted to question you as a minister. On the other hand, I do not remember that the bills to which you referred were passed. In any event, it is important to know that the request was addressed to you as a minister. Indeed, many bills have been passed in this chamber when they did not require a discussion in this Parliament, even though I have a great deal of respect for it. The approach seemed important to me, especially since temporary unemployment kept the job, but also, and above all, to maintain the skills until the firm could resume its normal activity, thus avoiding a shortage of staff. I hear your project to increase the employment rate by 80%. But it seems to me important to guarantee, first of all, the existing employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u27	Mrs Muylle is probably still on the Health Committee. I had her notified. Mr Anseuw, you may begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u28	Minister, in mid-March you extended the temporary unemployment corona until the end of June. As I have said before, that is anything but a fine-measuring measure. Although the circumstances have changed substantially since the first lockdown, this measure has been extended unchanged for two years now, i.e. not adapted to the new circumstances. You could at least have adapted the modalities to the new reality in which corona measures have long ceased to prevent economic activity, which was the case during the first lockdown. As far as I am concerned, you would have preferred not to extend this measure, because, if necessary, the other systems of temporary unemployment can always be used for economic reasons. However, that does not seem to be the case. For more than two years, I have advocated more fineness in the corona measures. Now the National Bank, through its vice-governor, has joined me. On previous occasions, you always replied that you would ask the social partners for a proposal to reform temporary unemployment. Minister, what is the state of play of this discussion within the National Labour Council and with the RVA? When do you expect that advice from the social partners at the latest, if you haven't received it yet? What will you do if that advice does not arrive in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u29	Madam President, I apologise for my absence from the previous question. I was still in the process of intervening on the medical quotas in the Health Committee. As far as I'm concerned, that question can be converted. Mr Minister, I have not heard Mr Anseeeuw's question. I come back to the measure on temporary unemployment which we have often discussed here. You said that the social partners should, of course, give advice on this. The end of June is coming soon now. How do we proceed with this now? Shall we work more focused? Shall we introduce transitional measures? I have noticed that many experts say that more focus is needed and that the broad measures should be taken in exchange for tailor-made work, very focused on certain sectors and target groups. We really need to look at where we still need wide-ranging measures today, such as temporary unemployment corona. We all know the example of Inno: at first it went a little less, but in the meantime everyone is back to work, because sales are improving. Minister, I would like to hear what decision you will take after June. Are there any concrete advice? What are the government's plans in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u30	Mrs Muylle and Mr Anseuw, in view of the continuing effects of the corona crisis on employment and the effects of the war in Ukraine, supplies of raw materials which are not available, problems of marketing products, lack of orders, I have decided to allow the existing temporary unemployment system to exist due to force majeure for both reasons until 30 June 2022. This additional extension gives the social partners additional time to reach an agreement in the NAR on the elaboration of a transitional regime for temporary unemployment. This scheme should allow the transition from the temporary unemployment system due to force majeure by corona and the war in Ukraine to the existing temporary unemployment system for economic reasons in a smooth way. This transitional regime will also address the existing difference in treatment of workers and servants with regard to temporary unemployment. If the social partners do not reach an agreement, I will evaluate the situation on the labour market and, if necessary, submit a proposal myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u31	Minister, you only replied half to my question. My question was until when you want to wait outside and when you are going to take action. You have replied that you will take action if you do not receive the advice. You can, of course, wait until January, and that is actually what you are doing today when it comes to temporary unemployment corona. You are actually saying that you are thinking out loud of a transition to other systems of temporary unemployment, such as unemployment for economic reasons. You're very good at kicking the can down the road, because we've been waiting two years for that transition. I can see from your answer that it can go on forever, because you did not put a deadline on it. My question was very clear when you want that advice and when you will take action. Not only am I asking that, but also the National Bank has said so much that it must be done. You refer to the impact of corona on employment, but it is at least negligible today, with caution. That can no longer be an argument, so it is really time for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u32	Minister, I also asked for a timing. The weeks go fast, not only for the National Bank, but also for a lot of employers who want to know where they are today and also after June. Legal certainty must be provided. I have often said that it is not just a question of targeting measures. I understand sectors that are still struggling today, but the system of temporary unemployment exists for economic reasons. It is important to return to what used to be and to introduce a number of activation measures when moving back to economic unemployment. I miss making it really specific, activating and targeting in a lot of measures today. That is what we want to give you and I hope that a proposal will be put forward soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 55026914C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u34	Minister, this question is no longer so topical. She dates from April. In the meantime, many Members have spoken about this in plenary. So I'll be brief. I would very much like to know where we stand today with the implementation of the employment deal and with the inter-federal platform, which nevertheless offers a number of measures to address the major challenges facing our labour market. To be honest, I am concerned about that. Yesterday I visited the VDAB in West Flanders, in the border area with Hainaut, with a number of Flemish colleagues. We were able to speak very openly there about a number of dossiers. One of the measures of the employment deal, for example, concerns bottlenecks in occupations and interregional mobility. People from Wallonia who go to work in West Flanders can retain part of their unemployment allowance. That was one of the proposals. We heard there that today it is no longer obvious, either for the problem-solving professions or for occupations in other sectors, to attract people from Hainaut or other parts of Wallonia, because there are the same bottleneck professions there. Also there are people for care today, people for construction, people with technical profiles, too short. In West Flanders there are a total of 14,000 unemployed, 28,000 vacancies and 140,000 inactive people. Then we can see what measures can be taken, where to activate and where solutions can be found to achieve the necessary degree of activation? I'd like to hear from you the state of play. Where are we today with concrete answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u35	Madam President, we have to hit the same nail over and over again. I am not the only one who does that because I also heard Mrs Muylle say, in her reply to the previous oral question we asked on labour market policy, that she also expects action. I totally understand her. After all, the employment deal dates back to 15 February. In fact, this deal should reflect the concrete impact of what was agreed in the government at the end of last year's budget negotiations, namely measures to modernise our labour market legislation. Unfortunately, we do not find any real activating measures in it. The only element that could lead indirectly to more activation is the opening up of an asymmetric labour market policy, in which the regions of this country would gain more levers themselves, with which they could get more people to work themselves. A long time ago, you announced an inter-ministerial conference on this subject, where the work deal would be further developed. I am very curious, Minister, what is actually the outcome of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the employment deal and the asymmetric labour market policy. I believe that this is an extremely important means of giving the regions more leverage, so that they can also pursue a labour market policy tailored to their own needs. In addition, the National Bank was not misunderstood when presenting its annual report. The Federal Government's very well-known ambition to achieve an employment rate of 80% was also addressed. Mr Wunsch pointed out that if Flanders could reduce the unemployment rate to 0 %, the rate of employment in this country would still not be 80%, as the rate of employment in Flanders is too low, faced with the constraints of a much too tight labour market. There too, the regions could be helped by levers. In addition, over the last few weeks, there has been a lot of news about the enormous arsenal of potential labour among the inactive in this country. We are talking about more than 2 million people in this country who could work in one way or another, and indeed they are already easier than the other, but they are not. So there is a huge potential that is not being exploited. In Wallonia there are 130,000 unemployed, but more than 600,000 inactive. The Brussels-Capital Region has 66,000 unemployed and more than 200,000 inactive. In Flanders, the employment rate is already over 75%, which is 3% better than the European average and 10% better than in the southern part of the country. Once again, however, we in Flanders do not have enough levers to maximise that potential. Then we will see how your cabinet reacts to that painful finding. I quote: 'This percentage of 80%, we know it is risky, but we never said that we would not succeed'. That's it. What is the outcome of the inter-ministerial conference I was talking about earlier? The fundamental question is whether you still believe in your own ambition of an employment rate of 80%? If you really still believe in this, what measures should be taken to increase activation in the different parts of the country will you finally announce, with a timeline indicating when they will be introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u36	Minister, I paid my contribution to the union this morning. That wasn't membership money, but I did pay a contribution to the ACOD, because a very interesting publication was published:La Wallonie à l'heure des choix. That publication contains an interesting introduction indicating that a region that is the mandeur de rien is likely to end with rien. It is therefore important that pride should return to Wallonia and that the Walls themselves reflect on where they are going. This is, for a part, the path of regionalism, as I read in the introduction to the publication and, by the way, in the press. It is an interesting story, which by the way une réponse aux fantasmes d'un retour à l'unité wants to give. That re-federalizing is a fantasm is an analysis I can only share. My question is in line with that demon door de rien. Because I am working on the budget, I am doing rounds with different committees. This morning on the radio, the Prime Minister said it's time for reform. He is a requesting party for reforms, especially in the labour market. Last week, I asked a question to the Secretary of State for the Budget, she also repeated her communication in the Walloon press last weekend, which is either the mandor or the questioning party for reform. I was also on the committee last week with CD&V Minister Verlinden, responsible for Institutional Reforms, and she said it's time for the asymmetric policy to come. She's a demon door, too. I understand from you that you have written a contribution to the book. I'll read that in detail with interest. I wonder, however, whether you are here too, in the sense that you want things to happen, that the labour market is finally being reformed and that we can do that best, each tailored to our own needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I will not go through the text of my question in full, because the ambition is known, the rate of effectiveness should be 80% by 2030. To this end, there are three major yards within the employment deal. The first is flexibility, but I will not repeat all these measures. The second is the reintegration of the long-term sick, on which we have heard an interesting evaluation this morning. The third yard, which I mentioned several times in plenary, is the mobility of workers across the linguistic and regional boundaries. It is difficult to explain that the number of unemployed peaks in Brussels, while the airport, located a little further, is crying out for workers. In order to remedy that last point, it is necessary for the regions themselves, including with your help, to make arrangements to lead the jobseekers to the jobs more urgently across the linguistic and regional boundaries. There's no time to waste. In certain sectors and in certain regions, the situation is becoming problematic, as some companies are really threatened. Minister, how far do you stand with the implementation of the agreements in the employment deal on inter-Western labour mobility? What initiatives have you taken and what is its planning? The three regions should apply the same interpretation of appropriate employment, which, in the event of refusal, would penalise the job seeker. In this way, jobs across regional boundaries will be better filled. Have you prepared texts in that sense? The active availability of job seekers presupposes that job seekers are actually actively looking for a job. In some regions the jobs are mainly across the language line. Will you make agreements with the regions, so that more efforts are made to find a job in another region and to encourage it? Should the policy of sanctions of regional services be more focused on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u38	Mr Anseuw, yes, I still believe in the target of 80% efficiency. That is an important objective. The figures improve in the three regions, but there is still much to be done, especially in Brussels and Wallonia. The numbers don't lie. The draft law on the employment deal was adopted by the Council of Ministers at first reading and is currently being discussed by the social partners in the National Labour Council. We expect advice by mid-May, so in the next few weeks. We are also awaiting the opinion of the Council of State. Greater labour mobility is indeed an important element in increasing the employment rate. In order to encourage this mobility and to find a solution for bottleneck professions, the Government has already decided that jobseekers who start a bottleneck profession or move to another region for their job can retain part of their benefit for three months. The government has also decided to allow workers to combine contributions for successful training with unemployment benefits. The two KBs implementing these measures are currently being consulted by the Council of State. In addition, an inter-federal platform has been set up to address the problem of the bottleneck professions and to promote labour mobility. Through this platform we discuss various measures with the Regions, in particular asymmetric measures, although within the existing institutional framework. I have proposed, for example, a measure on the follow-up of temporary unemployment in order to be able to play a shorter game on the ball. That proposal will soon be discussed by the federal government. As far as worker mobility is concerned, the regions and the Communities obviously have an important role to play. This is mainly about their powers. Of course, I am always available for discussions with the Länder, particularly in the framework of the platform and the asymmetric measures. However, it is up to them to set their priorities. I repeat, however, that I am always available for this kind of discussion with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u39	Minister, it is of course an en-en-story. It is a responsibility of both parties. It is true that there are a lot of powers in the Länder, but of course there are still a lot of federal powers. Yesterday I heard that 400 people were called up at the VDAB in the border region for job vacancies for forklift drivers. Only 15 people actually showed up. Four of them were able to fill out a vacancy. This shows that unemployed people with a more vulnerable profile are not as easy as they used to be, but it also shows that the degressivity of unemployment benefits may have to go a little faster. At these job fairs people find that people really look at the moments when there are 'next jumps' in unemployment and then are more motivated to come or not. So I think we should take more action. For us, asymmetry is the only way and the right way. I hope that we will be able to implement this agreement very quickly. However, I fear that it will not be enough and that further measures will be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u40	Even now, Minister, your answer was hardly surprising and nothing more than the announcement of the same measures that we have been hearing for months. That's the end of it. You still believe in your own 80% ambition, and I would like to believe you, but I do not take it for granted if I do not see anything moving in the facts. In your opinion, a number of levers are in the Länder, and you claim to be at your disposal when the Länder make their priorities known to you. What, however, has become of the about 30 concrete questions from Flanders, with 4 to 5 priorities that have been put forward? What results are already visible on the ground? These include better monitoring of availability for the labour market, to which Mr Muylle referred, a problem for which at least the regions of Flanders want more levers. If only four vacancies can be filled while 400 people are invited, then that raises a lot of questions. It is almost mopping with the crane open for the regions. Your claim is always available, it appears only lip service, since no follow-up has been given to the 29 questions from Flanders, now more than a year ago. So I find it difficult to believe that you still believe in your own proposed 80% ambition. Degressivity in unemployment benefits has been suspended for almost two years, particularly in periods where employers have been begging for labour, especially for unskilled labour, with a very low threshold to the labour market. By the way, you yourself raised that threshold by allocating EUR 400 million extra to encourage people not to take the step from a benefit to an income from work. Let the latter be the best leap forward they can make in terms of purchasing power. All in all, a poisoned gift you gave them. I conclude by repeating once again that I find it increasingly difficult to believe that you really want to bring the level of activity in the country to 80%. Moreover, I believe that 80% should not be an end in itself, but rather an important instrument for ensuring as many people as possible, and preferably everyone in this country, a good, comfortable and healthy life. This requires a stable income, and an income from labour offers the best guarantee. You and the government fail to do so, no matter how often you claim that you want and will do it differently. I can only observe that almost two years after this government took office, the government party supplying the Prime Minister, Open Vld, is today considering measures that could be useful to boost the level of activity in our country. Since no concrete agreement has been reached on what reforms this government wants and can implement, I can only conclude that the proposed 80% ambition of the government agreement is nothing more than a hollow ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u41	Minister, I share that analysis. My question was whether you're a demon door or a demon door the rien. It is only indicative and yet speaking that CD&V, Open Vld and N-VA are asking three Flemish parties questions about this theme. No French-speaking party takes the floor in the debate. Nor has any left-wing party on this particular theme.... asked the theme of the last few months a question or joined a question submitted.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We're commanding forces to do more. According to the publication published this morning in French-speaking Belgium, the analysis is rather that federal decisions are too much in line with the economy as organized in Flanders and with the wishes of Flanders. Our analysis, on the other hand, is that too few measures are being taken. Let us just honestly conclude that we each choose our own solutions that match our own labour market. That can be perfect, because that does not require asymmetry, but a thorough state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u42	Mr Minister, I have started my speech with a number of positive elements: three yards are working and we welcome the flexibility and commitment to the activation of the long-term unemployed who are able to work and should not lose touch with the workplace. However, labour mobility offers a great opportunity. Efforts are being made, as the various employment services are already working together to organise this mobility. However, on the ground and on the basis of the figures, it is felt that this mobility is still insufficient, especially with the labour shortages and bottlenecks. It would be a great pity to see companies fall victim in the long term. According to you, the inter-federal platform offers the possibility of consulting with regional ministers. This must be done urgently, because activation is very important and companies must get the right people in the right place. There are a number of very good measures to achieve this. I hope that will be done quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u43	Minister, since the beginning of the Ukraine crisis, I have asked you for a rapid awareness campaign on Ukrainian refugees' labour rights. You replied to that question last time at the committee meeting of 22 March 2022. You stated that you had asked the administration for detailed information and to make that information available on info-ukraine.be. Until a few weeks ago, I still couldn't find that information, despite my request for a very quick awareness campaign. Meanwhile, I can find something, albeit in a corner of the website. I wonder who could find it. What's the status of that? When I submitted the question a few weeks ago, I had also suggested linking it to the Flemish Crisis Information Translated app and the Flemish Infoline. I also asked for the link to the VDAB and Forem. After all, Ukrainian refugees who visit the website are looking for work. However, I still don't see a link to VDAB or Forem on the website. Will this information also be included in the registration of the Heysel? Is the brochure also actively delivered to those who have long been staying here? Will you provide that information to the host families as well? Is that happening in the meantime? Have you asked that question yet? Does that happen via the Housing Tool, for example? My second question concerns the deficits in ECOSOC inspection services. I have asked you that question several times. You announced last time that a decision was expected at the beginning of April 2022. You would try to draw from the great Ukraine pot. I have seen that, for example, Minister Van Quickenborne has been able to do so for the guardians of unaccompanied minors and now for the reporting point. Did you make that request? Because I haven't seen it pass. What was your exact request? What's the final decision? Will you be able to carry out proactive controls? We know that you have previously recognised that they were not or hardly possible because of the capacity shortages. Thirdly, is it already clear to you in which sectors Ukrainian refugees are mostly working? I suspect this will also be necessary for your motivation. Are there any proactive controls in this area? Fourthly, how many cases of economic exploitation of Ukrainian refugees are you now aware of? What kind of situations are we talking about? Fifth, if you browse the Internet, you will also easily find crooked advertisements or adverts, linked to work and targeted to Ukrainian refugees, such as shelter, linked to work in a nailshop or improper offering of the au pair statute. Is that screened? For example, do proactive controls occur when a nail shop is targeted in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u44	Madam President, Minister, in a recent article in the newspaper De Morgen the particularly difficult working conditions of the many Ukrainians who have settled in Belgium so far, and who are quite legitimately concerned about the working conditions of new arrivals, are described. Even before the outbreak of the war, Ukrainian workers were already on the labour market. The article I am referring to quotes the figure of 13,000 Ukrainian workers posted to the labour market in Flanders, 12 times more than in 2016. However, it is known that the situation of posted workers requires the greatest vigilance because of their precariousness. Situations of exploitation and lack of security are regularly denounced. This situation was dramatically illustrated by the death of a Ukrainian worker in Charleroi in September. His employer claims that he was independent while documents seem to show that he was employed by a Polish company and seconded to Belgium. The safety of workers is at stake. The use, sometimes, of several subcontracting companies makes the task of the Labour Inspectorate particularly complicated, pointed out the article I am talking about. Today, Ukrainians who fled the war are active in the labour market. The posting model should not be the reference and/or natural route for all these new workers, but should have access to the same safety as other workers. The risk lies in the fact that people do not necessarily speak, or yet do not speak, a national language and are not necessarily informed of their rights. Minister, have you developed a specific strategy for the integration of Ukrainian workers into the labour market? Which one? Is there accompaniment and specific controls? Have you developed specific and effective measures concerning the protection of these workers and in particular information on their rights? How do you envisage the role of the Social Inspectorate in addressing this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u45	Mrs Cornet, Mr Segers, the SIOD, in cooperation with the relevant federal and regional social inspection services and the Foreign Affairs Office, in the framework of the working group I set up on strengthening attention for Ukrainian refugees and third-country nationals, supplemented the brochure of the Justice Task Force with the relevant information and contact points. This brochure was transferred to the Task Force on 21 April 2022 and will be published in full on the website of the FOD WASO and on the website www.info-ukraine.be, where basic information is already available. At present, flash checks are taking place in the construction sector. SIOD has called for increased attention from all social inspectors to the situation of third-country nationals, including Ukrainian. In July there will also be flash checks in the hospitality sector and in September in the agricultural and horticultural sector. I can provide you with figures on the closed investigations of the checks carried out by the Inspectorate for the Control of Social Laws of the SPF Employment during the period from 24 February to 4 May last. These are 33 investigations involving Ukrainian employees, mainly with regard to the observance of wage and working conditions. In 18 investigations, offences were found, and in 11 of them, a report was drawn up for one or more offences, for a total of 66 Ukrainian workers. The wage deficits established for 44 employees amount to €198,986. For a Ukrainian employee, the salary of €9,814 has since been regularized. For other investigations involving a total of 15 Ukrainian employees, a warning was issued. The detection of these situations takes place through joint checks of the district cells, complaints or information exchange with local authorities in the framework of an administrative approach. Between that date and the end of April, 717 inspection files were opened. In four of these inspections, social law violations related to the employment of Ukrainian refugees were found. Ten Ukrainian employees were involved. In two other cases, indicators of economic exploitation were identified. Three Ukrainian women living in a closed space above a butcher shop were found. They worked without a contract of employment for a salary lower than the legal wage. As you will recall, this is one of the cases that has been covered by the press. Two Ukrainians were found performing renovations in a private house, at the request of the owner who had been looking for them in Brussels via a transmitter. Finally, during other checks, we found Ukrainian workers who had already lived and worked in Belgium before 24 February 2022. I would also like to point out that the Fair Competition Report also addresses the potentially precarious situation of Ukrainian refugees in particular and the situation of third-country nationals in general. Similarly, the extension of the type of notification that can be submitted through this hotline is now being finalised, with a specific form for reporting situations of economic exploitation and discrimination in the workplace. I would also like to point out that the social inspectors of all the inspection services concerned pay particular attention to potential abuses in their core business activities. For example, nail studios are identified in the operational plan for social fraud as a sensitive sector. Finally, at the request of the government, the National Bank of Belgium – in collaboration with the Federal Office of the Plan, the SPF Economy and the Working Group on Social Impact – has prepared a document containing several indicators to monitor the impact of the war in Ukraine on Belgium: the "Economic Impact of the War in Ukraine" scoreboard. The report is updated on a monthly basis, but no data are available on the areas where Ukrainian refugees end up. I will relay your question, so that this table can, as far as possible, be supplemented by this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, the figures you have given show that there is a major problem. It strikes me that you say that this information still needs to be published in its entirety. We are now more than two months after the start of the Ukraine crisis. It is good that something is already available on the web site, but if I understand correctly there is still to be done. I have also made a number of concrete suggestions. You haven't answered it, but I hope you've started working on it. The link with the Flemish Infoline, the Flemish app, the links with VDAB and Forem that are not there yet, I hope that all this will be taken with you and that you will link back to the administration. I didn't hear you say anything about the crooked ads and ads on the Internet and their proactive screening. I hope that happens too. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to give you one more thing. Sometimes I make quite a lot of suggestions, but I do not always feel that they are immediately working on them. I am trying to be very constructive, but if I have to repeat that certain things have still not happened, I am a little frustrated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u47	Minister, thank you for this relatively comprehensive answer. Of course, Ukrainian workers have access to the labour market. I want this to be clear about the dynamics behind this issue. It is a question of integration into the labour market, but it is also a question of protecting these workers from active malicious channels. You have cited a series of examples. We must act in a dynamic of protection of workers because we know that exploitation exists. When these people are in demand, do not speak the language well and are not well informed, they are in a critical moment and are likely to be victims. You talked about dramatic situations: salaries that are not paid, victims of economic exploitation. That's what we have to fight against. That is why, Minister, we need to be even more proactive and move more towards people. Is passively available information on the site really sufficient? Maybe there's more to do. Besides, you talked about the controls. In these checks, we must not forget the position of the controllers who must always integrate the idea – and we have already had the opportunity to talk about it when we approached the SIRS reports – and keep in mind that people who are controlled and who are not in order are, in general, victims of a sector, victims of an employer or sometimes trafficking in human beings. Inspection and controls must be carried out in this dynamic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u48	In the meantime, Minister, the abuses in some packing companies are well known. A new report showed that boys from 13 years old worked 2 to 3 days at PostNL for 5 euros per hour. In the debate on this subject in plenary with Minister De Sutter, she announced not only an amendment to the postal law, but also the creation of a task force with you to prevent the use of minors in the packaging sector. Despite all the seals, checks and inspections, social dumping continues. She would also ask you to examine how the rotten apples can be removed from the packaging sector. Have you been contacted by Minister De Sutter? In what way do you intend to put an end to the abuses in the parcel sector? How do you see the operation of the task force? Has it met yet? What measures does it propose? Who's getting involved in what? How will the task force tackle fraud and social dumping? Do you see any other possibility of tackling these offences, fraud, social dumping and child labour within your jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u49	Minister, I will not repeat the problem. It is about child labour, illegal employment, bogus self-employment and undeclared work in the parcel services sector, not least at PostNL. In the past, several abuses have been identified in this sector. So we can decide together that the sanctions that have already been taken are apparently not enough to remove that kind of abuses from our society. N-VA has not been idle and has submitted a legislative proposal to introduce the system of liability for subcontractors, as already exists in the construction sector, also in the parcel sector. What I am curious about today is whether you are already working on structural solutions to ban child labour and other abuses in the sector? If yes, which slopes are you investigating?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u50	Mr Minister, we have mentioned the abuses in postNL, which have been revealed by the testimonies of whistleblowers, the actions of the Social Inspectorate and an undercover journalist, even in plenary. I hope in advance that we will protect the company's whistleblowers. But the problem is not limited to postNL. It also occurs in courier companies such as GLS and DPD. The drivers of these companies are bogus self-employed, while they are normally a main activity. Hence the big problem we face: children working 13 hours a day for 5 euros. In a rich country like ours, such situations are embarrassing. What steps have you taken since then in the field of social inspection? The undercover report showed how postNL avoided the Social Inspectorate. In the meantime, do you have any more information? In the meantime, is there any guarantee that no children will work there? What steps have you taken to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u51	Inspection services did not need news coverage to tackle the fight against social fraud in the parcel sector. Joint SIOD controls or individual controls are carried out and even strengthened by the inspection services on their own initiative or at the request of the labour auditor. This is not unknown to you, as I already informed you of the increase in the number of checks for 2022 in the transport sector, to which the parcel services belong, on last week's questions. Of course, the Inspectorate has not authorised postNL, nor other parcel services, nor their subcontractors to deviate from the general ban on child labour. As you know, the law has strictly regulated child labour, and that is quite normal, by the way. The prohibition of child labour is of public policy and its violations are punishable by the most severe penalty in the Social Penal Code. In the event of a finding, the Labour and Social Law Inspectorate shall take the necessary measures to inform the judicial authorities of the offences committed. However, we cannot assign a social inspector to each depot or van every day to ensure that every company respects the general ban. To the extent that the problems have now been brought to the attention of the general public, I have no doubt that collective vigilance will also do its work. No principal, no trading partner, no parcel receiver can now pretend ignorance. We must no longer close our eyes or remain silent, but contact the point of contact for fair competition - het meldpunt voor een eerlijke competing - as well as the inspection or police services, depending on the infringement. The joint and several liability for wages is governed by the Law of 12 April 1965 on the protection of employees' wages and applies to various sectors. Even if the instrument can be effective, it is only one of the options we are evaluating. My fellow Minister De Sutter has an ambitious plan to tackle social fraud in the sector. We are working with her to ensure that progress is made as soon as possible. I often get along with my colleagues in the Länder, just like our staff do. In addition, federal and regional inspection services cooperate closely, intensely and effectively to monitor and enforce the application of social legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u52	It is true, I also recognise that the inspection services have already made a huge amount of efforts and are constantly continuing, which means that depots can be sealed and closed. Also, the employment auditor is not intimidated and even arrests the PostNL summit, even though the problem is in fact wider. However, what you say is also true: you cannot put a social inspector at every depot every day. Even more, sometimes one closes one depot and one starts the next day in another place with just the same. For me, their business model is the cause. That business model is not based on a fair price for transport. It works with bogus self-employed people and aims to undermine collective agreements and protection. There is no problem in itself with joint and several liability, but the couriers must be able to rely on more protection, child labour must stop, and I believe that this can be done through a well-protected statute, a guaranteed income through a minimum wage and good social protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u53	I share the concern, I welcome the fact that the controls are being stepped up, but I do not agree with the fact that I at least get the impression that some people here want to make a preliminaries of what the solution would not be. Minister, I think you have quite rightly pointed out that several parts will work together to find a solution. There won't be one blissful solution. Run that debate and do that exercise with an open sight. That's incredibly important. We all agree that the abuses listed have no place in our society or in our labour market. Good social protection is important, not only for children who are employed illegally, but for all couriers. I totally agree with that, but try to make that exercise with an open sight. In my view, joint and several liability can and should be one of the many important elements of the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u54	Above all, we will have to work on the cause, and this is the cause of liberalisation and competition within the sector. It's murderous. The self-employed who now work in these sectors deserve so little that they actually go to child labour, for example. That's the issue. The whole of liberalisation and competition are creating this kind of situation. This will certainly have to be addressed in the context of the discussions on the postal law, which should ensure more regulation and better working conditions. We have also intervened in the Walloon Parliament and in the Brussels Parliament. There we got the answer that it was a matter for the Federal Parliament. Child labour is exactly a matter within limits! I don't think that's normal. Child labour is forbidden in our country. The Walloon and Brussels Parliament must vote against such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u55	Mr Minister, I went to the action of Ryanair in Zaventem on 22 April. There was also an action in Charleroi. As a syndicater, I was amazed at the great willingness of the people to strike, because almost everyone had put the work to rest. That's how bad it is. Those people are so angry that they've all put the job together. Why did they do that? You know that an agreement was concluded with Ryanair. Ryanair must now comply with the social legislation in Belgium, but they are not in good shape with the legislation. They don't have their own personnel department. There are problems with the pay sheets and the mutualities. I've heard a lot of poignant situations. Pregnant women, for example, did not get their papers for the mutualities in order. Minister, did the social inspection last year receive complaints about Ryanair Belgium? If so, how many? What are the consequences of this? Is it normal practice that large companies such as Ryanair do not even have their own personnel service? How do you look at the actions at Ryanair, knowing that the federal government is a shareholder of Brussels Airport and the Walloon government of Airport Charleroi?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u56	Madam President, Minister, Ryanair's workers and their representatives are still facing serious problems in enforcing their rights. Indeed, the company's practices continue to ask questions. During the first days of the strike, at the end of April, and until a few hours before the strike, the flights were maintained by the company, which continued to sell tickets for flights that would most certainly be cancelled. Trade unions were informed that the company was asking teams from other countries to be ready. Was it to counter the effect of the strike? I wonder about the legality of the practice. The anger of the workers is not only about the level of wages, one of the elements that is currently under discussion, but also about respect for the law. Indeed, on 27 April, the payrolls received by the workers contained a great deal of errors and evidence of non-compliance with the commitments: poor payment of sick days, incorrect schedule, etc. The company does not have a HR service in Belgium, which makes the dialogue extremely complicated and makes it more difficult to correct the errors on the cards. The Social Inspectorate and trade unions assist workers in correcting documents. But you'll agree with me that it's not their role. The situation is tense. It should be recalled that the law applies to everyone. Minister, when announcing a strike or during a strike, is it legal to call on workers in the company who are posted in other countries to replace the workers on strike? Are there any follow-up plans? Have you been informed of the major human resources problems at Ryanair and the lack of respect for workers' rights? Is follow-up envisaged by the Labour Auditorate? How does the Social Inspectorate work in this protein conflict? What role can the Labour Auditorate play? Do you intend to remind the company of its obligation to respect Belgian law? If not, who can do so since the Social Inspectorate does not seem to be heard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u57	Colleagues, the Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws manages many files related to the company Ryanair Designated Activity Company. Those files have different backgrounds. These are initiatives taken by the Service in response to actions taken by social organisations, complaints and requests from the Labour Auditorate. Since 1 January 2021, 38 investigations have been opened under the supervision of the Labour Auditorate. Other inspection services, such as the Monitoring of Welfare at Work and the Inspection Service of the RVA and the RSZ, were also involved in the problems identified. At the moment, I cannot give any more details about these investigations, since they are all now under the responsibility of the Labour Auditorate of Hainaut, Charleroi Department. It is therefore a question of judicial orders. However, I can tell you that all available means have been, are and will be used to enforce the law by employers active in our territory, including Ryanair. Protection of the right to strike is paramount. The subterfuges to which you referred, Mrs Cornet, are also scrutinized, as are the other problems mentioned which are unfortunately not unknown to us. I have confidence in the various inspection services and in the judiciary and I thank them again for their hard work. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate to you that my vigilance is exacerbated when it comes to tracking down social fraud and cowboy practices that scorn our laws and our social model. If some people still think they're in the Far West, they'll find me a tough sheriff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u58	Imagine, Minister, if you were an employee and you didn't pay for something, you would experience something! So many complaints have already been made and almost nothing is happening. In the meantime, people have had to take action to change something, which is incomprehensible. I would like to add that they are seriously subsidised by the government in Charleroi. Maybe we should stop that until all this is settled. It is not possible for a company which is subsidised by the government to be able to wipe its feet under the social rules. That is incomprehensible! Minister, I now hear in the field that no progress has been made in the negotiations. I called for it today. People therefore need to take action again to ensure that a company follows the rules. That is incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You call it a priority for you, and I have faith in it, I believe you. I notice that the inspection services are working very hard, with 38 complaints in the meantime. Ryanair pretends that labour law and social protection constitute some kind of menu in which one can do cherrypicking so that one can break the rules. In the meantime, these people's wages are not paid correctly. For example, temporary unemployment is not taken into account for a person on maternity leave. This undermines social rights, the pillars of our social model, which must be respected by all. That's why I'm pleading for a little bit of change. This is again about transport, but whether it's bike couriers, delivery couriers or like an airline here, it's always a race to the bottom to avoid the rules. At the same time, public subsidies are open. There may be a link between these two.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, I understand that all means will be used to enforce labour law and that the social and other law inspection services will do their best. I also think it is important to restore the balance of power between the employer and the workers. It cannot be tolerated here that Ryanair imposes its will on cabin crews, who are forced to suffer the company's abuses in order to be able to keep their jobs. I also believe that attention should be paid to the fact that the intermediary companies through which Ryanair employs these workers also comply with Belgian labour law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that all means are used and that you have confidence. I too have confidence in the services. I also hear that 38 investigations are under way into the auditorate's responsibility. It's huge! It is a company that employs about 600 people in Charleroi. The number of 38 investigations is really huge and must encourage us to be more vigilant and to take an additional step in action. You say that you are extremely attentive to the protection of the right to strike. In this case, what follow-up do you or intend to reserve for the use of foreign teams, since this is a proven fact that has been denounced by the unions? We are still faced with companies that want to apply non-indexed scales, ignoring Belgian legislation. In the face of this amount and intensity of abuse, minister, you have to go further if you want to be the sheriff. Minister, when are you going to draw seriously?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u62	Minister, according to the ACV, to which I referred earlier on the abuse of day-to-day contracts, young people are twice as likely to have an accident at work as the average worker. Mostly job students are victims, but also young people who work with a temporary employment contract. There are very poignant examples. Last year there was an 18-year-old who was electrocuted at a chocolate company in Koksijde. 9 years ago, a sea buoy exploded in the face of a 17-year-old student in the port of Ostend. Despite these serious incidents, the ACV continues to receive hallucinatory files about job students who are the victims of an accident at work. The ACV believes that strict legislation on safety and well-being should be better monitored. The risk analysis is mandatory, but it is noted that young people are not always informed about safety rules. In fact, they don't always get safety clothes the way they should. Can you confirm what the ACV is saying? Is that also confirmed by the inspection services, by your services? Do they notice this in the case of checks? Do they notice that this is more the case with job students, as well as with job students with day contracts? If yes, what measures or initiatives will you take, especially now that the summer is coming, to improve occupational safety for job students and, above all, to avoid accidents at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u63	Mrs Vanrobaeys, on the basis of the latest available annual report on accidents at work in the private sector, the FEDRIS report for 2020, indeed shows that the number of accidents at work among young people is higher than the average. The other age groups are below average. However, for 2020 there is a decrease for all age groups. This may be due to the corona pandemic and to measures such as mandatory teleworking and the closure of non-essential sectors at the beginning of 2020. However, the number of accidents with permanent incapacity shows a reverse picture. The figure for younger workers is lower than the average. The severity of the accident increases with the age of the victim. Younger workers are therefore more likely to have an accident at work, albeit with less serious physical injuries. This is partly explained by the fact that the recovery is faster and better at a younger age than at a later age. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the employer takes the appropriate measures to organise the reception, guidance and training. The employer should also take clear instructions and appropriate preventive measures on the basis of a proper risk assessment, taking into account, inter alia, the level of pre-training of workers. The Multi Annual National Control Plan will enter into force on 1 October. In the context of the vigilance programme, every pro-active basic inspection by the Welfare Inspectors at Work will be thoroughly monitored every time that the welfare obligations regarding reception and training are strictly complied with by an undertaking, including for workers at the beginning of their careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u64	Indeed, Minister, you confirm that the number of accidents at work among young people, whether they are young or not, is higher than average. Fortunately, there are less permanent injuries. I also read an interview with the mother of the 17-year-old job student who died nine years ago. She said there was a lack of information and pre-training after all. The safety regulations weren't well known either. She said it would be a good thing that he didn't die for nothing. I think this is important. You say that the vigilance programme will enter into force from October. It is also important to remind job students, who are generally more employed in the summer, of the rights they have. Employers should be reminded that they must comply with safety regulations so that no more serious accidents occur and no more young lives are lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u65	Madam President, we regret that we were unable to intervene in the inquiry into the status of artist, but this is another debate. Minister, my question is about absenteeism and pension reform. Currently, one in six people over fifty-four years of age has been absent for illness for more than a month. This is the conclusion of a study by the Social Secretariat Securex. Indeed, workers over 54 years of age who most often work in physical occupations are more likely to be absent for long periods of time - often due to physical problems (up to 23%). These figures are interesting. Moreover, as Securex points out, "the expected increases in the pension age will further push this rate of absenteeism upwards". A study had previously been carried out by my party. As a result, any pre-pension removed in 2012 would result in an older, long-term patient being added. The various sectors of social security are all communication vessels. This is why it is so important to invest in systems that make work more feasible. As Securex further points out, it is clear that concrete measures are needed to ensure that the last ten years of career are meaningful and as healthy as possible - particularly in relation to the 80% employment rate target. You see, therefore, that it is not simply a right-wing opposition that questions you on this last point, even if our left-wing position shows a completely different approach. Minister, what concrete measures are you proposing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u66	Madam Member, I thank you for your question, which is part of the discussion we had this morning on the reintegration of sick workers and the emphasis I place on prevention policies, precisely to prevent workers from being unable to do so for medical reasons. As the adage says, prevention is better than cure. As you have mentioned, this is also an important element in relation to the 80 % employment rate target, because, let us recall, there are more workers in our country who are ill with disability, with disabilities than job seekers, with people who receive unemployment benefits. These figures must challenge us and invite us collectively to act. That is why I wanted to devote the first annual employment conference to the theme of harmonious career ends, on the understanding that when we talk about it, it is the entire career that must be considered and addressed. As I undertook to do so at the end of this conference, I drew up an action plan which I submitted to the social partners, the aim of which is to develop career goals and enable older people to pursue this career, so to remain active in the labour market. This action plan is now being discussed within the National Labour Council between the social partners, who will, of course, be able to propose additional measures, as announced from the outset. Once the opinion of the social partners has been received, it is of course clear that the various measures envisaged and proposed under this plan will be discussed within the government. I hope to receive this opinion as soon as possible so that we can give concrete effect to the various measures already envisaged in the framework of this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u67	Mr Minister, your answer is certainly interesting. Nevertheless, I wonder if this will be enough, in the sense that Securex's study mentions that "the long-term absenteeism is from 54 years of age". You're going to propose measures. We already know some of them. I want to refer to the famous retirement measure, when we worked from the age of 18 and we count it as 42 years of career. It's certainly a good thing, but it's only 6,000 people out of 190,000?- Is that what you're saying?- Is that what you're saying? persons who can take their pension. It's really too little! In addition, you know our full criticism of the flexibilisation of work in the employment deal as well as the problem of flexi-jobs. We really need to go much further so that we can free up jobs on the ground for our children so that we can rest and have a more decent career end. We therefore expect your plan to be even more concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u68	Minister, you spoke last week on the radio to talk about, after the status of artists, that of close caregivers. I want to say that the status of artists is a huge issue of which we know what is happening and that of close caregivers is also a long-term issue, a fairly old one which progresses in stages and which is equally essential in society. You are announcing adaptations and advances for families and workers facing the problem of helping a loved one (parent, child) in a situation that requires assistance and care. It seems to me that a distinction should be made between temporary close caregivers facing an acute crisis or a temporary medical problem of average duration and those facing a parent with a lifetime dependency (autism with serious behaviours). You announce your willingness to simplify the status of close caregivers and to make it more flexible for every worker facing this problem to take this type of leave. I imagine that we are in the context of the transposition into Belgian law of the European directive 2019/1158 (work-life balance) and that behind this, a draft law is taking its course. Minister, what is the status of the bill that would make the adjustments that you have announced and when will it be introduced in Parliament? In addition, the study of Socialist Women foresight points out that they are mainly women who perform this role of caring for a parent with a medical or addiction problem. The question is also to give compensatory aids which is a way, says the study, of "legitimizing, in mentalities, the maternal or protective role assigned to women" in this field. So how can we anticipate and defuse the perverse effects that some improvements could have in terms of gender inequality? We will talk later about the problem of close caregivers in its broader dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u69	It is indeed a worthwhile subject. Mr Delizée, thank you for addressing this important issue of gender injustice. You mentioned it in your question by talking about the reality and the figures as reported in this study. This issue also relates to injustices related to the circumstances of life and particularly to health status. Unfortunately, we do not all have the same opportunities in life in relation to our health. Today, if the worker is recognized as a close caregiver, he or she has the right to take a specific leave of absence to accompany a person in need of assistance. I also saw to it last year to lengthen this carer's leave of absence. It is true that during all the different types of career interruptions, such as medical leave or palliative care leave, the worker does not receive his remuneration but a dependent allowance from the ONEM. I am currently working on the reform of conciliation leave, within the framework you mentioned, namely the transposition of the work-life balance directive. The draft law that was passed in the Council of Ministers at the end of April contains two fundamental measures in my view to help workers cope with their family imperatives without having to be part of the mechanism of career interruption. This draft bill includes a new five-day carer's leave per year which the worker can take in a very flexible way to, for example, accompany an elderly relative to a nursing home, to accompany a spouse or relative to undergo medical analysis or treatment. Another important provision is the possibility for the worker to apply to his employer for flexible work arrangements. This applies to any adjustment of the worker's working arrangements such as adaptation of the working arrangements. For example, the worker increases from 38 hours to 30 hours a week; changes in working hours are made. For example, a worker who works part-time asks to organize his work on two and a half days a week instead of each day in the morning, or a worker asks to be able to benefit from more days of telework. The aim of these measures is to give workers more flexibility in the organisation of working hours, and hence in the workplace. In addition, they allow women workers not to have to withdraw completely from the labour market, or to suffer loss of income as a result of career interruption. Several studies show that these measures also allow male workers to exercise their rights with respect to conciliation leave. Studies show that the greater the flexibility in the organisation of work, hours or working conditions, the more male workers make use of their rights to conciliation leave. These measures seem essential to me. I am aware that they will not yet meet all the needs and difficulties on the ground. But you mentioned it, Mr. Delizée, it is a case that is moving forward, gradually, taking into account the evolution of society, the need for everyone to be able to support the bedside of relatives. I look forward to being able, with you, to further develop these important elements of our law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers. I welcome the progress that has been made. You took the words out of my mouth. I wanted to say that it's a file that moves step by step, step by step. There was the legal study that tried to identify the needs of the families concerned, which led in 2012 to a law recognizing the status of close caregiver. We are for the moment in a logic of improvement, within the framework of your skills in labour law. That is a very positive point. We look forward to it in Parliament. We will, of course, support him. The overall issue is multidimensional and affects the competencies of other ministers. My conclusion is that I can only invite you to consult with the other ministers – I am thinking in particular of your colleague Minister Vandenbroucke – to try to find a comprehensive solution for families facing the great dependence of one of their loved ones. That is what we must pursue. In any case, congratulations on this step in this dossier!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u71	Mr Minister, on 11 April, the management of the INNO retail chain put half of her shop staff at home because of a disappointing sale. It was about 700 workers and temporary unemployment would last until the end of June of this year. However, well two weeks after that decision, the chain of shops decided to recall its staff more quickly, with immediate effect, from 2 May, if I am not mistaken. That's striking, isn't it? What system of temporary unemployment has the INNO retail chain used for this purpose? What were the reasons for putting half the staff on temporary unemployment? How was it assessed that the economic problems did not arise entirely or in part through the own action of the retail chain?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u72	Mr Anseuw, the INNO department store chain has indeed invoked the temporary unemployment system. This system means, inter alia, that unemployment must not be indicated in advance to the RVA and that, if there are indications of irregular use, the RVA can only carry out a retrospective check. In general, it is accepted that, for example, rising inflation, lack of purchasing power and falling consumer confidence have a negative impact on businesses and that these elements can justify the introduction of temporary unemployment. The decision to introduce temporary unemployment is, in the first instance, a decision of the employer, which, if necessary, is discussed with the employees in the consultation bodies set up in the undertaking. It is not intended that the RVA should take business decisions instead of the employer. In addition to INNO, many large and smaller companies still use temporary unemployment. The RVA has a practice of organized aposteriori checks, if certain flashing lights may indicate improper use. If they consider that the employer's decision cannot be legally justified, employees shall also have the necessary legal remedies to oppose it; they may also inform the RVA accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u73	Minister, I can hear you, above all, mention a number of general principles. But can you also answer my specific question as to which temporary unemployment scheme was used there? Was that about temporary unemployment corona or temporary unemployment economic reasons? You can't answer it? I'm so sorry about that. So why do we ask questions in advance? The question was also very specific. It's hard to replicate an answer that hasn't been answered. So I will continue in another way, because I will not let go of this. In my view, the questions are quite right, especially because they are Community resources and workers who are in a very vulnerable situation. That must be a concern for all of us. I am all the more surprised that you cannot even answer those specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u74	Mr. Minister, data from HR specialist SD Worx show that short-term absenteeism in young people under 25 years of age has increased significantly compared to the period before the corona crisis. It is also striking that the short-term absenteeism is not higher in any other age group. Previous figures also showed that mid-term absenteeism, from one month to one year, also doubled for workers under 25 between January 2019 and July 2021. This is a remarkable but also worrying evolution. Mr President, what do you think are the causes of this worrying evolution? What remedy do you propose? Do you intend to monitor absenteeism more closely? If so, how do you intend to do that? Above all, I want to know what you think are the causes and what remedies you propose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u75	Mr Anseuw, we have no official figures on rising short-term absenteeism among young people. Only social secretariats like SD Workx have such figures. RIZIV statistics on primary incapacity for work, i.e. less than a year's incapacity for work, and disability, i.e. more than a year's absence from illness, will be received shortly. I will keep a close eye on a sharp increase in absenteeism rates in a certain age group. The reason for the sudden increase that SD Worx refers to is, in my opinion, multifactorial. The covid crisis and the current social context have a strong impact on young people's mental well-being. Many young people struggle with anxiety and feelings of isolation. They have often started a new job without knowing the colleagues and the workplace well. I therefore hope with you that this increase will decrease. As far as possible solutions are concerned, I am convinced that prevention and early intervention will have the best effects. With the two new strategic action plans on well-being and health at work, we are investing with the federal government in preventing disease loss because of occupational risks, which can be both mental and physical in nature. In addition, the adapted reintegration pathways will allow different parties to act more quickly. The monitoring of absenteeism is always possible on the initiative of employers, as provided for in the law on control medicine of 13 June 1999.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the concern you share with me. You have put forward some hypotheses, some of which may be the basis for this. You yourself say that there are currently no official figures available to the government, but that you will soon expect them from the RIZV. Can you say very specifically when you expect it? I think it is very useful to continue with this and to think about how we can deal with it. I assume that these figures will also provide a little more insight into the nature of the disease, the reason why one is unable to work. The RIZIV makes a distinction between a number of groups of disorders, in which mental disorders indeed form a group. If the figures are published, it will be clear whether the hypothesis you have put forward will be maintained. Maybe there are some other things going on. That is why I would like to know when we can expect these figures. I understand that you may not be able to say that out of the ordinary today, but you can say it in one way or another. It concerns me. I think it's important that people who start a career can start as well as possible. Good start is half won, they say. I do not know the translation into French, so I am very curious to see how that will be in the translated version of the report. However, that proverb does not exist without reason. I am giving everyone a good start in their early careers, and I'm sure you will. That is why I attach great importance to these figures, to that evolution and to how we can deal with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament 55027597C and 55027631C by Mrs Lanjri are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u78	Mrs Thémont, in my view, all cases of abuse must be combated and prosecuted. If a worker is the victim of an abuse, he or she can always file a complaint via the anti-fraud contact point, file a complaint with the labour auditorate or refer the case to the labour courts, for example with the help of his or her union. I would like to draw attention to the fact that providing stable and adequate working conditions also makes it possible to increase the attractiveness of a job offer and to combat certain job shortages. This is something that should be taken more into account. In the case of successive short contracts, particularly in the interim sector, the government agreement provides for combating their misuse. I have therefore asked the social partners to make concrete proposals in this area. I am very attentive to the ongoing discussions at the level of the National Labour Council. The discussions between the social partners have progressed well and I hope that agreement can be reached shortly. If, unfortunately, the social partners were not in a position to deliver an opinion, the government and your servant would have to decide on this issue. I would also like to inform you that we have submitted to the social partners a draft amendment to the legislation in order to avoid carousel of short contracts and replacement contracts. We also look forward to their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that we will reach an agreement and that the social partners will find a way out. The BNB study reveals that most workers on temporary contracts are the most vulnerable – young people, women, non-EU nationals, low-educated people – and that they often have no choice because they find it difficult to find indefinite contracts. The risk-of-poverty rate is significantly higher for temporary workers. I know you're leading the fight. I'll pay attention to it and come back to you in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u80	Madam President, Minister, the TZCLD project, recently launched by Wallonia, has already been placed on the agenda of our committee. When asked about the subject, you indicated, particularly in the press, that at the federal level, you had asked your colleague Finance Minister to analyse how these TZCLD initiatives could be supported in the context of the adjustment of the free zones. In the Finance Committee, my colleague Josy Arens questioned Minister Van Peteghem on the subject, who indicated that he had not received any inquiry into the TZCLDs. He pointed out that work through free zones seemed impossible. However, this is an important issue, first and foremost for the people concerned, because having a job provides protection and guarantees of income. This issue is also important in the face of the 80% employment rate target and the medium- and long-term challenges of financing social security. On the other hand, it would be rather deplorable that the various levels of power reject the ball in the context of this dossier and in some internal dysfunctions of Vivaldi. Indeed, obviously, we regularly watch a ping-pong game not only between levels of power, but also within the federal government itself. Moreover, there is also the Brussels dimension. And there, "we send the potato outright", if I may say, at the federal level, without taking any initiatives at this stage. Minister, what about this arrangement, whether in Wallonia or Brussels, and how are you going, with what arrangements, for what amount, to support? How do you explain that Mr. Does Van Peteghem not seem to be informed of this file? I imagine you're going to say now that you've told him about it... I'd like first and foremost actions, concrete. We are two years from the end of the legislature and it is no longer a matter of explaining, telling, promising or thinking, it is a matter of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u81	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your question, which refers to a passage from the government agreement which does indeed provide for support for regional labour market policies, in an asymmetrical way and in particular in the field of TZCLD, with respect for the competences of each and everyone and with respect, of course, for the institutional framework. As you know, the special financing law determines how the federal state and the federated entities are financed, particularly on labour market policy issues. Within this framework, structural consultations are held with the federated entities in order to adopt the necessary measures to accompany and support the measures they take. This is in particular what we have done with a partial defiance of the increased premiums granted by the Regions to job seekers who are enrolled in training courses in sectors in need. This is what we have done with the possibility of allowing jobseekers to temporarily retain part of their unemployment benefit when they enrol in training courses in short-term sectors or accept employment in a short-term sector or in another region. All avenues and options must therefore be explored, including the tax route. I confirm that the free zone mechanism is being examined to see if it can be adapted and/or extended so that it can benefit from these pilot operations that I fully support "zero-unemployed" territories. The Walloon Region has also integrated TZCLDs into ESF+ programming. The resources made available by Wallonia in the framework of the recovery plan will therefore be amplified by Europe, thus allowing more projects to be financed. The calls for projects have just been launched. For our part, we are also continuing discussions in order to determine the joint committees applicable to jobseekers who will be included in these TZCLD pilot operations. Consultations are also under way with the Brussels Region. Further information on the progress of its projects should be provided to us in a timely manner. Frankly and transparently, Mrs Fonck, I confirm our willingness to support these regional operations and initiatives. The current institutional framework and especially the special funding laws limit us somewhat in how to support these initiatives. In any case, our will is to find all possible means to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u82	Minister, you recall the government's agreement and various employment considerations, but they have nothing to do with the project "Territory Zero Long-Term Unemployed". You say you volunteer. All this is beautiful and good, but I still don't know any more. What agreement have you reached with Minister Van Peteghem? None. You then talk to me about institutional issues, but you already knew that at the time of writing the government agreement. On the other hand, I note that the projects chosen in this area are still very restrictive. For example, some territories which had developed a project had been referred to roses, while their long-term unemployed could benefit from certain initiatives taken after consultations between various actors. As far as free zones are concerned, I do not understand. As a boredom, I do not understand that the Picardy Wallonia and the Hainaut boot are excluded, while many problems could be solved by the measures to be taken in the field of employment policy and, above all, in the context of long-term unemployment situations. Recognize, minister, that I did not get an answer to my question. You say here and in the press that you are actively supporting this project "Territories zero long-term unemployed". But nothing concrete has come forward. It's just com'! Therefore, I will return to you. Already, I'm putting pressure on you. There's what we say and there's what we do. I'd like to see what we're doing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u83	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your question, which allows me to come back to an issue that was discussed in plenary last Thursday, when, that very morning, hundreds of workers - since it is a non-market sector which employs mostly women - came to testify in the streets of Brussels of their daily difficulties in facing the explosion of fuel prices. Many of them use their own vehicles to carry out essential social tasks such as support in the disability sector, youth support, home support and home support for the elderly and loss of autonomy. These workers carry out essential social tasks on a daily basis and play a true societal role. That Thursday morning, I received a delegation of the sector's workers with representatives of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The delegation wished to highlight the specificities of the sector, considering that it was not always sufficiently represented in the social consultation bodies at the federal level. Don't think I'm ping-ponging! But recognize that our institutional system sometimes makes it difficult, depending on the sector of activity, the competent subsidizing power and the levels of social cooperation, to see clearly a situation. So they wanted to tell us about their reality and their difficulties, as well as some suggestions for regulatory or legal changes to their situation. I have met passionate, dedicated workers who are rightly concerned about the feasibility and quality of the missions that are theirs, carried out for the benefit of the weakest. I don't have to draw you a picture, but the explosion of their fuel costs endangers the very exercise of their missions. We listened to them and took note of their suggestions. We have committed ourselves to studying them, as well as to putting this point at the level of social consultation, within the framework of the means set out by the federal government at my request to intervene in the travel expenses of women workers. We had asked the social partners in the Group of Ten to make suggestions for intervention mechanisms. To date, the social partners have still not reached an agreement. It is clear that, in the absence of agreement in the coming days, we will consider – and your servant in particular – making concrete proposals for the use of this EUR 30 million, in order to help and support workers who have an absolute need to use their vehicle in the course of their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic779x.u84	Minister, you answered in plenary, but my question was earlier. It was not attached to the questions in plenary, I do not know why. Whatever. The situation is not new. It's not like the cost of energy exploded yesterday or last week. It's now been weeks since these people's difficulties in getting both ends together are catastrophic. There is the price of fuel; there is the price of energy; there is the price of food. In short, the situation becomes untenable, especially since wages are not high. In addition, missions are fundamental, whether for families, children, youth, patients or the elderly. Minister, I think we need to stop procrastination. First of all, there is a need for more reimbursement of costs. Then you know, like me, that the employers of the non-market do not receive money that falls from heaven. A sufficient envelope must therefore be provided for them. Your $30 million envelope, not just for the non-market, we immediately realized that it was insufficient. It therefore takes an additional envelope at the level of the federated entities to support employers. At the same time, a larger envelope will also be required in the federal government. Today we are talking about non-trade. I have already asked you several times about the service title workers. But there are also other people involved, some of whom are forced to stop working because the situation is financially untenable; their income is based on exploding expenses. Beyond the discussions that are postponed from week to week and from power level to power level, could we have concrete, strong and ambitious measures to support the various workers involved as well as those sectors that are essential? Thank you.
