ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, Test Achats has received 650 customer complaints since September 2020 against Switch Holding SA and SFAM for forced insurance following the purchase of an Apple product. By buying a smartphone, computer or tablet, the customer is offered free insurance for a month and is promised a cashback. After the signature of unclear documents and the transmission of the IBAN, the consumer is informed by e-mail that he has subscribed to an insurance or other product (e.g. a gift card). The amount of these various subscriptions for unwanted services regularly amounts to EUR 200 per month. Test Achats filed a complaint with FSMA and the Economic Inspectorate. FSMA has already pronounced and has prohibited Switch from distributing insurance products. What is the result of the Economic Inspectorate's survey and will it be published? What can companies that have carried out such unfair and illegal practices expect? What is planned for those who have not filed a complaint with Test Achats, but who have nevertheless been blurred?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u2	Dear colleague, the Economic Inspectorate is currently investigating the practices of Switch Holding SA and Hubside Belgium SRL companies, both with regard to products offered online, by telephone, and by the stores of the companies concerned. As the survey is still under way, the Economic Inspectorate is unable to provide precise information on the measures taken and to be taken. Contacts were made with the competent French authorities. In the event of unfair practices vis-à-vis the consumer, the supervisory officers of the Economic Inspectorate may draw up one or more minutes against the responsible undertakings. A report may then give rise to a transaction proposed by the Economic Inspectorate and be sent directly to the competent prosecutor's office for possible prosecution or the application of an administrative fine. Without prejudice to appeals before the courts and the possibility of contacting the mediation service, the injured consumer may forward his report to the point of contact of the SPF Economy. All such alerts shall be analysed by the Economic Inspectorate, which shall then carry out the necessary investigative acts. The Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) also conducted an investigation. By decision of 2 March 2022, FSMA prohibited Switch Holding SA from marketing insurance products in Belgium. This decision follows on from the findings of inspections carried out at different points of sale concerning non-compliance with certain legal or regulatory provisions, in particular as regards customer information and rules of conduct. This decision shall have effect immediately and shall be valid until the deficiencies found have been rectified.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I would like to make a number of points. First, FSMA said it was a fraudulent practice. I guess there's been an investigation since the practice is proven. Then you say that the Economic Inspectorate "can" ask; in fact, it "must" ask. The verb "power" does not correspond, as it is an obligation. Finally, the least we can do would be for the two companies in question, which are in their wrongs, to be forced by the Economic Inspectorate to contact all the injured customers. We don't have to wait for the injured clients to file a complaint. Since they have been injured without their knowledge, the role of the Economic Inspectorate is to force these two companies to contact all the customers they have injured, as it is manifest theft. They must be punished and act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u4	I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u5	I took note of this study of Test Purchasing. In 2020, the Economic Inspectorate already conducted a general investigation into the energy labels in force at that time in physical shops and web stores. During this investigation, 60 per cent of 183 controls detected an infringement of the labelling of energy labels. Relatively, almost twice as many infringements were detected in web shops as in physical shops. In view of the priority corona controls, the Economic Inspection did not carry out a general control action in 2021 when the new energy labels were introduced. From the FPS Economy this new label was communicated to consumers and traders. However, although the methodology of the Economic Inspection and Test-Achats investigation may differ, there appears to be a sharp decrease in the number of infringements, especially in web stores. The Economic Inspectorate also received only two notifications on the new energy labels via a hotline. Five investigations were initiated, one on the basis of a notification and four on its own initiative. I will continue to follow closely the reports on this issue and will examine with the Economic Inspectorate the extent to which pro-active investigations can be planned in the next annual action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u6	It's good that the energy labels were renewed. They were no longer representative of the current situation. Of course, it is important that the labels are correctly applied and used. I am therefore pleased to hear that you will check with the Economic Inspectorate whether the labels, both online and in the physical stores, are being used correctly, because we see great differences between them. We'll keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u7	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, a month ago we passed a government bill to transpose a European directive on consumer law. This Directive concerned in particular the duration of the legal guarantee. I have tabled an amendment to this bill to extend this legal guarantee from two to three years. This amendment was the result of suggestions made by Professor Evelyne Terryn of KUL and Simon November of Test-Achats during the hearings. Both spoke of the risk of a missed opportunity to produce more durable goods if the policy did not decide to extend this guarantee. This extension was quite possible, and the European directive allowed it, and Sweden is also an example of this, since the legal guarantee is set at three years. I am surprised that this amendment did not attract more approval when all the political parties in this House claim to take ecology into account. Your Government is also planning to develop the sustainable economy, and I do not understand that this measure has not been included in this plan in order to focus on repair and combat planned obsolescence. I wonder, Madam Secretary of State, what was your position on this issue? Do you support the extension of the legal guarantee? If so, why could it not be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u8	Mr D'Amico, thank you for your question. It is not only the length of the legal guarantee that is important for consumers and the sustainable economy. It is also the enforcement of these rules that plays a major role. In fact, the true guarantee is contained in the period preceding the reversal of the burden of proof. During this period, a consumer may limit himself to showing the defect and not his cause to benefit from his guarantee. After this period, if the seller so wishes, it may require the consumer to demonstrate that the cause of the defect was already present at the time of delivery and how the defect occurred. Given the complexity of most goods, consumers cannot prove this in practice and have to rely on an expert dowry the costs often exceed the cost of the good or its repair. As a result, consumers often waive their request for repair or replacement. Under the guarantee rules prior to the new legislation adopted, this period of reversal of the burden of proof covers only the first six months of the two-year guarantee. The new Directive extended it to one year, with the possibility for Member States to apply a maximum of two years. In Belgium, we have chosen to maximise it and set it at two years, so that the consumer does not have to prove the defect during the entire period of the legal guarantee of two years. The seller must either remedy the defect or prove that the defect is not covered by the legal guarantee. This provides a full two-year, easily enforceable guarantee, which will certainly benefit the sustainable economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u9	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in fact, my question did not concern the reversal of the burden of proof, but simply the extension of the guarantee. When I asked Minister Dermagne this question, he told me that on a personal basis, or rather on behalf of his party, he was for an extension to three years; but that within the government it was not unanimous, or in any case the majority. I would therefore have liked to know your position, if you, together with your party, were in favour of this extension. But I'm not talking about the reversal, which you're opposed to. That was just my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u10	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, some websites always charge extra fees for electronic payments. However, this practice has not been allowed since August 2018. Traders who do not comply with the law face fines ranging from 250 to 100,000 euros, or even a prison sentence ranging from one month to one year. More than half of the sites controlled by the Economic Inspectorate were in violation, one can read in a Sudpresse article. Madam Secretary of State, how do you explain that so many traders are derogating from this law, when it has been in force for more than three years? Can you describe to me the size of the companies charged by the Economic Inspectorate? Are some repeat offenders? Why has the Economic Inspectorate issued warning reports when the law provides for fines or even prison sentences?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u11	Mr D'Amico, the Economic Inspectorate had planned in 2020 an action on compliance with this legislative provision in stores. Due to the situation and the measures taken during the health crisis, this action could not be organised in 2020 and 2021. Instead, in view of the fact that online shopping increased sharply during the health crisis, an e-commerce survey was conducted in 2021 to better reflect the reality of the market. The sites were selected on the basis of the different alerts that were introduced via the point of contact. The size of the enterprises was not used as a criterion for selecting controlled sites. The selection criteria were either that the sales site was specifically addressed to the Belgian payer, by offering, in addition to the usual international means of payment such as credit cards and PayPal, a typical Belgian payment possibility such as Bancontact or Payconiq, or that it had an extension ".be". None of these companies had previously been the subject of action by the Economic Inspectorate. The choice of type of sanctions falls within the autonomy of the Economic Inspectorate. The main objective of this control action was to bring the offences to an end as soon as possible, rather than to impose criminal sanctions. This was achieved through the warning procedure. The 13 Belgian companies have regularised the situation and no longer demand a prohibited fee. Needless to say, my services will continue to follow this subject with all due attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, so much the better if your services warn rather than punish damage. What displeases me is that you did not take into account the size of the companies. When it comes to small businesses, I agree, but it would be outrageous if large companies applied this kind of fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u13	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u14	Under the European Passenger Rights Regulation, the passenger on a cancelled flight has the choice between a full refund within seven days or an alternative flight with comparable transport conditions, regardless of how the flight was booked. That obligation concerns the air carrier and not the intermediary, because the latter is not a party to the actual transport agreement concluded between the passenger and the air carrier. The traveller may, in the event of a cancelled flight, directly invoke and enforce the right to full reimbursement within seven days in respect of the air carrier. The traveller should not therefore be obliged to address himself to the mediator for this purpose. If the traveller chooses to do so, the latter shall not be prohibited from applying for compensation for it. In this case, both fees and time limits are subject to the rules on information. The necessary information must be communicated to the consumer in advance and clearly so that they can make informed choices. The mediator must not, of course, mislead the consumer about his legal rights either. Following the corona crisis, a coordinated European action against 16 major airlines was launched in 2020-2021. The Economic Inspection, together with the FPS Mobility, was one of the coordinators of this action. This concerned, inter alia, the failure to recognise the obligation for air carriers to provide assistance to passengers in the event of cancellation. In this context, Belgium has pointed out to the Consumer Protection Cooperation Network that the cause of this problem sometimes lies with the mediators and that it is best to address this problem at European level, as these mediators are almost exclusively foreign companies. Through its reporting point, the Economic Inspection received 29 notifications in 2021 and in 2022 to date 8 notifications about the sale of airline tickets through travel agencies and tour operators, including intermediaries. Since there are no separate statistical codes for intermediaries in the sale of airline tickets, we should look at these figures with caution. As far as your last question is concerned, the European Commission has launched the review of the Package Travel Directive and of the Passenger Rights Regulations following the Corona crisis. There is already a public inquiry about this directive and regulations. As you know, I follow these revisions closely and the concerns about the mediators are certainly part of this. I drew my colleague's attention to this at the informal Consumer Protection Summit in Strasbourg on 11 February 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, you say it is important that consumers receive the right information. That is indeed the crux. Few consumers know that they can turn directly to the airline and automatically have the reflex to contact the intermediary, but are not aware of the additional costs involved. Providing consumers with the right information is the weak link in that system. So we need to find out how we can raise consumer awareness and ensure that the right information reaches him. Yesterday we had Mrs Turtelboom of the European Court of Auditors, not unknown to you, guest of the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs. It explained, inter alia, the audit of the Passenger Rights Regulation. I have already asked your colleague Gilkinet several questions during the corona crisis about the difficulties consumers face in getting a refund for a cancelled flight. He always claimed that there was no problem in Belgium, which was explicitly contradicted yesterday by Mrs Turtelboom. There were problems in Belgium, which you have just confirmed. So there is certainly still work to be done. Finally, the reform of passenger rights has been under way at European level for some time now. I do not think they go in the right direction for consumers, for example because airlines should intervene only after a longer delay. That's after 4:00 and it wasn't supposed to be until 5:00. I hope you will follow this closely. I have put a question to Minister Gilkinet on this, but I hope that you, as Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, will continue to follow these two dossiers very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u16	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I suggest we start with the questions for Minister De Sutter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u17	Madam Minister, problems have been identified in the United States with the use of certain radio frequencies used for 5G in the vicinity of airports: they could potentially cause a malfunction if they are also used by aircraft. There is regular discussion of this in the Committee on Defense. The radio altimeters use the radio frequency band 4.2 GHz - 4.4 GHz. This is another than in the US, where 5G is rolled out on the radio frequency band 3.7 GHz - 3.98 GHz. Apparently, both tires are too close to each other and may cause a malfunction. Like I said, 5G is rolled out on other tires. Hopefully that'll make a difference. The case is, of course, followed up by the BIPT, which provided for the allocation on those specific frequency bands. So our 5G frequency bands are a lot further away from the radio frequency bands provided for the altimeters than is the case in the United States, but I do have a number of questions about this, because problems sometimes arise in Europe too. Are there also any possible disturbances in our country of the radio altimeters due to the roll-out of the 5G frequencies as in the US or is the slightly wider distance between the 5G frequency bands provided by us and those for altimeters sufficient to ensure that we will not have the same disturbances as in the US? Were the temporary rights of use of the 3.4 GHz - 3.6 GHz radio frequency band granted by BIPT already used by mobile operators near our airports? Have tests already been carried out and any problems have been identified? Has the BIPT been in contact with skeyes, the Aviation DG of the FPS Mobility and Defence? Have any measures been taken on this matter? Is the issue also being discussed at EU level? He is of course relevant not only in our country, but also in the telecom regulators, especially at European level. Have measures already been taken in other EU countries to avoid problems? Finally, the BIPT work plan states that the frequency band may be allocated to private local networks using 4G or 5G. Won't there be any possible interference with the radio altimeters here?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, on the possible impact of 5G on air traffic, I would first of all like to say that the risks of interference are a priori lower in Europe than in the USA, because of the fact that the protective band, or the buffer between the tyres used, is greater. The frequency band used in the US for 5G is closer to the frequencies used by the altimeters, but we therefore have a larger buffer. By the end of 2020, BIPT received questions on behalf of skeyes and the Directorate-General for Aviation from the FPS Mobility about potential risks of interference of radio altitude meters by 5G base stations. The BIPT then sent a letter to operators by the end of 2020 recommending that a precautionary zone be observed around the airports' runways. The measures recommended by BIPT in that letter were very similar to those imposed by the ANFR, the French spectrum management agency. The BIPT informs me that, as far as they know, France as the only European country has imposed measures to protect radio altimeters. So far no problems have been identified in our country, nor anywhere else in Europe, for the reason I said at the beginning of my reply. Of course, risks of interference cannot be excluded for 100 % at this stage. 5G is not yet with us and hardly in other countries. Several initiatives are under way at European level. In early 2021, CEPT, the Conférence européenne des administrations des posts et tellécommunications, launched a study to draw up a report on the potential risks involved. Stakeholders in the aviation sector had not yet provided CEPT with all the technical characteristics of the radio altimeters to carry out that research. The final CEPT report is therefore not expected until July 2023. I do not know why that should take so long, but apparently there is a lot of research to be done. The standards to be developed must of course be forward-looking, because we are talking about 5G for the next 20 years, and take into account the different implementations of 5G in the frequency bands involved, both in Europe and worldwide. CEPT therefore needs a lot of research time to do so. The European Aviation Safety Agency also looks at the problem. At present EASA says that no circumstances have yet been identified that would compromise safety and that there has also been no notification of interference of radio altitude meters by 5G base stations. EASA will continue to collect data from aircraft and equipment manufacturers in order to carry out the risk analysis further. So there really does not seem to be a major problem in Europe. The band 3,800 to 4,200 MHz (3,8 to 4,2 GHz), which is much closer to the frequency bands used by the altimeters, is not auctioned in the June auction. In the future, this band may be used by private local networks. They have a much weaker transmitter power than the other bands. The risk of malfunctions should be absolutely limited. These links should, of course, not be developed near airports. The technical characteristics for this are still to be determined by the BIPT in the future. They will, of course, also take account of these altimeters. The BIPT recommendations to operators, as in their letter of late 2020, are therefore still in force today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u19	Thank you for your clear answer. It makes a difference that the threshold or buffer for us is slightly larger than in the United States. In any case, it is a good thing that it is on the agenda at various organisations and certainly at BIPT, as everything is still in an early stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u20	Mr President, my question No 55024822C actually has the same subject, it is just a follow-up question. I will therefore put both questions together. Madam Minister, the right to choose end-user equipment is provided for in Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1831/200320 laying down measures on open internet access. The European Union has therefore been in favour of free modem choice since 2015. After Finland, Germany and Italy, Dutch end users will now be able to choose their terminal equipment from 28 January 2022 and decide whether they want to use it from their internet provider. For a long time, internet providers claimed that there were good technical and security reasons not to allow this choice. However, this choice was made by a number of countries and the objections originally raised were not confirmed in practice. According to Test-Achats, this freedom of choice not only stimulates competition and innovation in the market of those devices, it would also lower the threshold to switch to a new provider, as consumers can now often bring their own device. Certainly in the telecoms market such a switch is still an issue, the consumer does not always find the easy way to get there. Madam Secretary, why was there no free modem choice in our country so far? Is that something that's being watched? Has there been any research in our country into the importance of free end-user equipment for consumers? What are the advantages of this free modem choice? The BIPT is investigating whether the free modem choice can also be made possible in our country. Is BIPT also investigating the free choice of end-user equipment for TV decoders, Wi-Fi routers, repeaters and related mobile signal amplifiers? If not, why not? Could the price for the consumer fall, as predicted by Test-Achats? The quality of the internet modem is essential for a good network. One objection was therefore that quality could possibly be reduced in the case of a free modem choice. How can consumers be sure of their quality? Is equipment being developed that can be used both for connection to a cable network and to a telephone network? Can studies also be carried out on the energy consumption of end-user equipment, i.e. actual consumption and sleeper consumption? Can an action plan be drawn up to reduce the energy consumption of such terminal equipment? If so, are any action points considered? Could the use of time switches, physical or virtual via an app, help reduce slumber consumption? Are you in favour of mandatory labelling of energy consumption, both in actual use and in dormant mode, so that the manufacturer is encouraged to market a more energy-efficient device? If so, do any plans already exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u21	Mrs Depraetere, your question about the right to free modem choice is very interesting. The BIPT says that there is no free modem choice in Belgium because BIPT has not yet received any formal complaint from an end user who wants to use his own modem. The BIPT claims that most end users are probably very satisfied with the modem that is being delivered. Of course, there are advantages to using a modem certified by the operator. The quality of services will be guaranteed. Problems can be identified remotely by the operator. Furthermore, the software can easily be kept up-to-date and more difficult to hack. One can also add services to the modem and so on. Operators are therefore absolutely asking to be able to place their own modems with end users. They also say, of course, that it is possible to use a non-certified modem, but that this could interfere with the network, for example, because it emits too high power or because the noise on the line is not adequately suppressed, which could affect other users. This applies both to the cable network and to VDSL technology. Those are the arguments of the operators to argue for their own modems. Certified modems are limited for specialised end-users, i.e. for a particular type of end-user. We see on-line customer forums that operators at the specific request of such end-users are willing to modify and adapt certain features or settings of the modem to the needs of that end-user. Certain end-users therefore have very specific questions. The current legal framework allows operators to only provide services to modems that are certified in advance. That is a regulatory provision. With the publication of the guidelines of BEREC, the European regulator, to identify network termination points, BIPT now has the opportunity to investigate the free modem choice. In fact, there has been no study in our country of the importance of free end-user equipment for consumers. In Germany this has been possible for three years, but less 3.5 percent of all customers use it. There are also advantages to the free modem choice. That is probably why you are asking this question. Smaller operators can thus more easily launch their product in different network infrastructures and develop new services. And end customers can change operators more easily on the same network infrastructure, by re-using or reconfiguring the modem. Customers who would use their own modem or router also benefit from lower rates or, for example, could consciously opt for a more sustainable device. After all, these devices consume a lot of energy, as you know. Finally, the free choice would allow end customers who are technically qualified to ask for it specifically to manage their own home network as they wish. For example, they can use connected devices or personal clouds remotely. There are therefore advantages for the specialised end user who can deal with them. That is why I also asked BIPT to examine the free choice of modems, TV decoders, routers and Wi-Fi routers after the publication of BEREC's guidelines. So that's what we're gonna do. That was the answer to your first question. Then I'll come to your follow-up question. In order to assess the quality of an internet modem, today the customer can only rely on other users' experiences, the reputation of shops or the reputation of the producer. This also applies to the purchase of any other product. As regards the question about the existence of modems that can be used for both the cable and the telephone network, a study on the development of such modems was carried out by BIPT in 2013. This is an older study that can still be found on the website. At that time, the BIPT concluded that these are not actually interesting devices, from an economic point of view but also for other reasons. In such a device, a number of components appear to be duplicated to ensure proper operation on both the cable and telephone networks. So it wasn't exactly an efficient device. Certain components that were unnecessary were still consuming energy. The explanation is rather technical but apparently a dual modem is not interesting, even for the sake of energy consumption. That is, of course, a very important element today. The BIPT will review these types of modems and check whether the situation has changed compared to 2013. You have also asked specific questions about energy consumption, and that is, of course, a very relevant element. On my question, the BIPT has therefore launched a project on energy consumption but also on telecommunications networks and data centres in general. After all, we know that they consume a lot of energy. However, the research results already available show that modems and decoders are the biggest energy eaters. Datacenters are actually doing pretty well. The modem that has been plugged in to you and me all day long, however, consumes a lot of energy. That is also why some of these devices have an eco mode, a kind of slumber mode for minimal energy consumption when not actively used. The issue is also being considered at European level. For example, the revision of the European Ecodesign Directive in the context of the Green Deal is under way. It looks not only at energy consumption but also at recycling, circular life cycles, modular design and so on. A time switch can indeed provide the lowest level of consumption, as the sleeper consumption will also disappear. Of course, this means that all TV and Internet services and updates, which we are not always aware of, cannot happen. Well, that's a downside. However, all initiatives which could reduce consumption in dormant mode should certainly be looked at. At Proximus, there is already an eco-mode. This has succeeded in reducing the amount of energy consumed in dormant mode from 0.2 to 0.05 watts. That's a serious drop. There is also a decrease in Telenet, from 9 watts to 0.3 watts. I don't know what unit of time it's about. However, we can find out further. In the area of circular economy and energy consumption, initiatives have also been taken at federal level, together with Minister Khattabi. In doing so, we are working on awareness among the manufacturer and consumer. I hope that the BIPT study on more sustainable, greener telecom applications can be an important building block. Mr President, my answer was rather long, but it is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Many people do not think that the consumption of modems is very high. People think about the washing machine or the dishwasher, but the modem is always popular with many people. It is therefore good to think about better options and operators have an important role to play. Especially if there is no free modem choice, they can still market the most sustainable terminal equipment. Maybe there's something in it for them, too. It may also be interesting for BIPT to see the effect on the price of the recently introduced free modem choice in the Netherlands. The Dutch market is of course not fully comparable but it would be good to check that out. It is therefore immediately possible to determine whether the consumer is actually making use of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u23	Mr Loones is not here. His question No. 55025470C therefore lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u24	Madam Minister, in recent weeks there has been a marked increase in the number of fraudulent messages (e-mails, telephone calls, etc.). We all know fake calls like "Hello, this is Microsoft Windows, there is something wrong with your computer." I received one of those calls myself last week. I always try to keep them on the line, because as long as I keep them on the line, they can't bother anyone else. There are also fake calls related to identity card fraud, fake emails, text messages from LinkedIn, Whatsapp, Federal Express, Itsme etc. Of course, the companies themselves have nothing to do with it. It's about fraudulent messages from crooks. Fake e-mails are also being sent from the police at home and abroad about an offence that one would have committed. There is a threat of imprisonment even if you do not pay. It's all attempts to swindle people. The problem gets bigger every day. Although this problem is getting a lot of attention in the media, there are a lot of people who are trapped. What can or will you do to protect our citizens from these scams? Will you consult with telecom operators to determine how we can combat this phenomenon? When can we expect results from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u25	Mr Gilissen, online fraud is really an increasing social problem. You have given some examples that we all know. The Internet is becoming more and more important in all facets of everyday life and so fraudsters have very easy access to each of us, via all kinds of devices. I agree with you that we need to take an integrated approach. Firstly, we must work on prevention and awareness. It is true that this may not always be enough, but we must continue to make citizens vigilant and resilient so that they do not fall into such traps. One can go a long way sometimes. I understand from recent examples that conversations are even imitated in a family context: for example, one pretends to be a daughter asking for money. So it goes incredibly far. As soon as one starts to ask questions, one should not really go further. However, the policy also has a responsibility, of course, and so there must also be interventions where fraud is detected, stopped and punished. This is important for the police and the judiciary, who must and can pay more attention to this and let us be honest, let us also do so, especially when it comes to fraud committed from our own country, as is usually the case with smishing. Perps aren't always easy to track down. In fact, that is often difficult, especially when they are abroad, and they are even more difficult to punish. There are also a lot of different types of fraud, you have mentioned examples of this which need their own approach and fight each time. That is why there is continuous consultation, sent by the BIPT, with all stakeholders. These are the operators, the banking sector and the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium. Fraudsters usually want to transfer money to their accounts or to the accounts of accomplices. Banks therefore need to develop effective anti-fraud systems in order to detect and stop these transfers. You also know that we have the Stop Phishing project as part of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In this way, we invest EUR 9 million of European money in systems to help operators detect and combat fraud. A first project in this context has absolutely the aim of working specifically on fraudulent text messages. In principle, that should have been rolled out by the end of this year. We'll follow that up together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u26	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. You will do a number of things to combat such fraud. Certain websites can be blocked very quickly, but for fraudulent websites this turns out to be a bit more difficult to do. It might be an idea to respond and quickly limit fraudulent websites. You are talking about sensitizing people, which, of course, is important. However, this will not solve the problem. After all, some messages are very convincing and people are trapped. If that happens, it's too late. We really need to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u27	Madam Minister, at the end of June 2021, I interviewed you about the data retention law that was destroyed by the European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court in Belgium. The recording of various data is a source of information for the fight against crime and is also very important for the detection of missing persons, but also a threat to the privacy of citizens. The preliminary draft new data retention law would even provide access to end-to-end encrypted messages in WhatsApp and Signal, via backdoors to be built into these platforms. It is reported that this possibility would have been removed by now in the new law that is coming. Following on from my interplay, I had also tabled a motion calling for account to be taken of a number of concerns and, above all, for a legislative framework to be drawn up with regard to the privacy of citizens, respect for the secret of letters and on the basis of the presumption of innocence to prove otherwise. This legislative framework should also pass the test by the Constitutional Court. However, the majority did not seem to have any interest in this and chose to proceed to order today without a vote on my motion. Despite the fact that the preliminary draft of the new data retention law dates back some time, we have not yet received a final text. When are you planning to submit the new data retention law to Parliament? Will the new data retention law be balanced with sufficient guarantees of citizens' privacy, but also provide sufficient opportunities to combat certain serious crimes and to detect missing persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u28	Thank you for this question on a very important subject that we and several competent Cabinets have been working on for a while. Maybe that's why it's taking a little longer. The main point is, of course, the story with which it all began, in particular the destruction by the Constitutional Court by the ruling of 22 April 2021. A judgment was also delivered on 18 November 2021 with a further destruction of Article 127 of the telecoms Act. This means that the repair law we had planned has already been partially overtaken by the new judgment of the Constitutional Court. Two articles of the telecoms Act need to be amended, Articles 127 and 126 and a number of organic laws, including the statute law of the BIPT. In the meantime, the adjustments are almost complete. That is quite quick, given the judgment of 18 November. They now go to the public consultation and to the GBA and the Council of State for advice. The first part will be submitted to Parliament in the coming weeks. The second part will only be submitted after the public consultation and the opinions. We hope that the repair law can be adopted before the summer. Your second question was more substantive. The aim is to strike a balance in the law between, on the one hand, guarantees of citizens' privacy and, on the other hand, to allow the fight against certain serious crimes and the detection of missing persons. We do not want this to be compromised. This is not an obvious balancing exercise. You'll understand. However, I think we have succeeded in doing so. I hope that the texts will convince you of that. I assume that during the parliamentary debate on the repair law we will have the opportunity to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u29	As far as the content is concerned, we must indeed wait for the text before we can debate it. I hope he gets there soon. I understand they're working on it. There is a need for clarity: the privacy of citizens must be guaranteed and the judicial services must have the tools necessary to carry out their work. I therefore hope that we will be able to deal with this matter quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hanus's 55025816C lapses as she is absent and has not informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u31	An investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists published in Le Soir reveals that the Swedish company Ericsson paid the Islamic State (EI) to transport its equipment to the territory of the terrorist group. The telecom giant has been active in this country since the 1960s. Its activity took off after the war with the public investments of the new Iraqi government. Then the multinational had to face Daesh's arrival. It could have been believed that the rise of the terrorist group would put an end to the Swedish multinational. It's bad to know them! Several executives of the company also proposed to stop the ongoing projects in Mosul, a territory in the hands of ISIS. But Ericsson's management decided otherwise! No moral principle stops the thirst for profit. Thus the company sent an engineer to meet Daesh and ask his members for permission to continue the construction. The investigators who conducted the multinational's internal audit report that it is "a potential illicit financing of terrorism to carry out transport operations for Ericsson". Moreover, they also reveal practices of corruption or embezzlement in 14 countries, including Iraq, headed by Ericsson. The company offered works of art, iPads, Montblanc watches or pens as well as trips to Spain and Sweden to some of its customers to obtain markets. Minister, in Belgium, Ericsson is working with Telenet to deploy the 5G network. Are there any sanctions against the multinational? Is the presence of a company collaborating with a terrorist group that has carried out attacks on Belgian soil compatible with your recently voted bill and "introducing additional security measures for the provision of 5G mobile services"?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u32	Mr D'Amico, thank you for this important question. I absolutely agree with you, but it's complicated. Don't expect a black or white answer from me, but I will try to answer you as best I can. Let us start with the question of sanctions. You will understand that this is not within my jurisdiction. I invite you to ask my colleague Mr. Van Quickenborne, the Minister of Justice, who may be able to tell you where we are and how he sees things. I come to the other question. Of course, telecommunications is my responsibility. A recent law has been passed which provides for the control of operators over their equipment suppliers and the use of service providers. It's a little technical and mostly legal, so I'll try to explain it well. These suppliers will be analysed by the intelligence and security services to see if they are subject to interference by a non-EU State. Obviously, we are more interested in activities outside the Union. But it is the intelligence and security services that do this analysis. This one uses a certain systematization, if you want, which aims to determine whether or not certain factors are present and I will list some of them for you. First of all, a strong link with the public authorities of the country in question. Secondly, the legislation or situation of the country in question, in particular where there is no democratic or legislative control in place or in the absence of a data protection or security convention between the European Union and the country in question. I would like to add that the country in question outside the European Union must be involved in the process we are talking about. In this case we are talking about the infrastructure of 5G networks – which will be set up in our country – for example if components are built or ordered from a third country. That's what we're talking about. Thirdly, if one of the following factors is present: the characteristics of ownership of the supplier's business – what kind of business are we talking about? – the capacity of the country in question to exert any form of pressure, including in relation to the place of manufacture of the equipment or, ultimately, the fact that the supplier's country of origin leads or is associated with an cyber-offensive policy. I know these are very technical aspects, but these are the factors, the criteria analysed by the intelligence and security services to decide whether or not a certain supplier can be employed in our country's 5G infrastructure. Our legislation – this is the point I wanted to address – on the security of 5G, which was discussed recently, does not define exactly what is meant by 'the country in question'. The choice was clearly made not to name any country. Therefore, intelligence and security services should not be limited in their analysis to the country of origin of a supplier, but may also examine other third countries that may have some influence on a supplier. I'll let you apply this to your case, of course. It is necessary to recall that the aim of this law is to improve the security and, of course, the resilience of our telecommunications infrastructure. I now turn to the answer to your question: our law is not intended to punish non-compliance with international sanctions, terrorist financing or corruption. This is really something very different. Once again – I come back to the reference to my colleague Van Quickenborne – the judiciary has other legislative instruments for these various offences that you have listed and which I obviously do not dispute. I believe, however, that a distinction must be made between what happened there and the question that you are asking about the impact that this may have on our security network, which is, as I said, analysed by the intelligence and security services. It is not up to me to make decisions in this regard, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I will first follow your advice and ask Minister Van Quickenborne the question. Secondly, I would like to express my astonishment at being the only one who has asked this question which seems to me to be about such enormous facts, even if I do not throw the stone at anyone. I would also like to remind you that I told you a few months ago, in this committee itself, that the desire for profit of multinationals is such that they are ready to do anything to increase their profits. Even if this is not within your competence, we can see that this is happening today, so I am still hungry for your answer. But I'll ask Mr. Van Quickenborne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic715x.u34	We're coming to the end of the questioning session. Madam Secretary De Sutter, ladies and gentlemen, thank you and see you next week.
