ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, it is now well known that many people who have to leave the country refuse to take a covid test in order to prevent their effective expulsion. There may also be problems with the test taken at the time of entry. In September, you said that everyone who arrives in Brussels in the Klein Kastiltje will be subjected to a covidtest and, if necessary, quarantined. Can you guarantee that every new asylum seeker who signs up has undergone a covid test or have you known of cases where an upcoming asylum seeker refuses to take a covid test? If so, what are the consequences of such refusal on the further progress of the reception procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u2	Mr Van Langenhove, I will answer the question in the two languages, as it was prepared, in order to answer Mr Rigot's question. Colleagues, we continue awareness campaigns with adapted tools: leaflets, posters, information sessions, personal conversations, etc. Earlier this year, we increased awareness to motivate residents to take the third dose of the vaccine. Vaccines are not given on zero day because this requires prior awareness. The arrival centre organizes twice a week vaccination sessions for residents. Tests for non-vaccinated people are not supported by Fedasil, it is the responsibility of the resident. There are currently 1,079 isolation places for the entire network. The occupancy rate for segregation places was 43% as of January 13, 2022. Isolation capacity was never 100% occupied. This number therefore seems sufficient but will be adapted if there is to be an increase in contamination. It is important that there are sufficient insulation places. 43 % of the 1,079 insulation sites are occupied today. Those places slightly increase the pressure on the reception network. So hopefully we'll get out soon. In any case, in recent weeks you have been able to read that the vaccination rate is high among asylum seekers, but also that there is a big difference between regions. West Flanders is doing much better than other regions, especially regions in the south of the country. So there is still work to make the same sense everywhere. With a vaccination rate of 88 percent in West Flanders it would be good, if the rest of the country were equally West Flemish, at least in terms of vaccinations. It is true that everyone is subject to a covid test on arrival at the registration centre and quarantined if necessary. It is extremely exceptional that an incoming asylum seeker refuses to take a corona test when applying for international protection. I mean that in the last three months two people have refused to take a test. These are people who are being quarantined and isolated. Most people don't like that and therefore pass a covid test. If there is a medical reason not to take the test, a new appointment is scheduled the following day. At that time more time can be taken to explain, so that the meeting can take place in calmer conditions. If the person refuses to have a corona test taken, he or she may be denied the right of reception. In the case of the two refusers, one person passed the test the next day and the other chose not to enter the reception network. We are therefore strict in this respect, but this rigour is necessary to avoid major outbreaks in the notification centre. After all, we can spare that as a toothache.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, in the coming weeks we must review the policy on isolation sites in the light of omikron in order to reduce the pressure on the wider reception network. I see that you nod, so you seem to agree, that is of course very good. You say that it is extremely exceptional that applicants for protection refuse to undergo such a corona test and that they are quarantined in the event of refusal. It shows a great distrust of Belgium and the services to refuse such a test. Of course, I am also pleased that there is mutual distrust of those who apply for protection but still refuse to undergo such a test.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, rejected asylum seekers and other illegal residents must pass a corona test before they leave the country. Anyone who refuses such a test cannot be turned off. There is therefore a deliberate strategy by many of those people to prevent a return in this way. At the beginning of this year, you announced that the deadline will be extended for persons to be transferred under the Dublin procedure, but that will be prevented by refusing a corona test. Does the phenomenon of refusing a corona test to prevent expulsion occur equally in the case of repatriation to third countries or countries of origin? If so, what measures will you take to enable such repatriations in case of refusal of a corona test? At the end of last year, you stated that you and a number of neighbouring countries could examine whether deportees could be required to participate in such a test. In the meantime, what has been the concrete outcome of this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u5	The refusal of a PCR test occurs in all types of removals to the country of origin, Dublin acquisitions and bilateral acquisitions. Over the past year, a total of 3,091 bookings could not continue 1,107 for all kinds of reasons, such as cancellation due to a judgment, opposition during surgery and medical reasons. In 306 cases, the operation could not continue because the person concerned refused a PCR test. This corresponds to about 27.5% of cases. The percentage of refusals of a PCR test relative to the total number of non-departures is similar for removals to the country of origin as for Dublin transfers. For removal by country of origin, this is 26.99 %, and for Dublin transfers 27.88 %. For bilateral shipments it is even higher, at 33.80 %. These are conditions imposed by the countries of destination, on which the DVZ has no impact. Belgium itself imposes such entry conditions for sanitary reasons. There are also countries for which this condition does not apply and there are also foreigners who do allow the test to be taken. Consequently, removals could be organised in 2021. For the closed centres, the return rate was 73.74 % in the period January to November 2021. My services are therefore doing their utmost to keep the ratios as high as possible and to convince those involved to take the test. The refusal of a test is considered resistance and means that the retention period starts to run back from zero. In the case of persons covered by the Dublin scheme, the readmission period shall be extended to 18 months in the event of refusal, in accordance with Article 29 of the Dublin Regulation. Special flights shall also take part as far as possible, without the condition of a PCR test. My services are also investigating what we can do. We have also looked at the neighbouring countries and a little further than the neighbouring countries alone. In Europe, there are now three countries where there is the possibility to take a PCR test under duress, namely Denmark, Germany and Switzerland. I am currently working on a similar model, which I will propose to the Council of Ministers in the very near future. At the time someone has to return, refusing a PCR test should not be a loophole in the system. The appropriate measures will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in the very near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u6	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the figures we can certainly get to work on. You say it is indeed a condition of the country of destination. I wonder, then, whether these countries themselves cannot provide quarantine places for nationals who are being returned. If we impose the necessary sanctions and favour countries for their cooperation or opposition, such an interim arrangement should be possible to allow people, even without testing, to return to their country of origin. You say that special flights do not require a test. That is indeed a good solution. Let us make every effort to do so. If such a test is refused and it leads to opposition, the detention may be extended. That is, of course, also very good. Let us follow the example of Denmark, Germany and Switzerland. Perhaps such a scheme is still in the pipeline in many other European countries. I hope that it will come to the Council of Ministers very soon and that we will get an even better answer on this issue in the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament 55024124C and 55024129C by Mr Boukili and Mr De Smet were postponed at their request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u8	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, the German idea of a coalition of the willing on solidarity is not new in itself. It already exists, among other things, in the form of the Malta Declaration which Belgium does not participate in. In the past, Belgium has at other times united with other Member States to support a resettlement action. Think of the solidarity shown after the fire in Moria. In the future, the Belgian Government will continue its efforts in the face of an unexpected humanitarian situation, but structural solutions need to be dealt with differently from ad hoc locations. Belgium is committed to finding a structural solution within the framework of the Asylum and Migration Pact and to finding a balance between solidarity and responsibility. In addition, we are in favour of a policy based on correct figures. For a solidarity action to be taken, an analysis should be made of the pressure that a Member State experiences, both from a Member State to which solidarity is sought, and from the person asking another Member State to show solidarity. On the basis of these figures, it is clear that I invite the countries that are asking Belgium to take action to see who is experiencing the most pressure. I have not yet received a question from the German Government and the proposal from their coalition agreement has not yet been proposed at European level. When the Germans put it on the table, I will, of course, study it thoroughly in the light of the parameters of Belgian policy: how it relates to proposals that have responsibilities, the pressure on asylum at that time and the real chance of a lasting solution. The only way forward is a coalition of the willing with all the Member States that together create a new European policy. However, we must not depart from the Member States that point the finger at other Member States. I think this is the mistake made by the Germans in their presidency. Starting from a coalition of the willing and then giving other Member States a sense of guilt, I do not think that much will be solved. We must start from a migration policy where we must try to accommodate two thirds of those who come to Europe and do not need protection at the external borders of Europe. If this is done, I think there are opportunities to find a coalition of the willing with all the Member States. Leaving from a north-west European perspective on the matter and then imposing it on others, has been tried in the past and has not succeeded. I believe that this will not be possible in the future either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with you that Germany's methodology will certainly not work in this respect. At the same time, we must be realistic and form a coalition of the willing with all European countries, but it is unlikely to succeed. It is also the wrong paradigm from which the European Migration Pact departs, namely that we will find common ground on all these issues with countries which differ in terms of migration policy. This will be very difficult, because many countries have already expressed their views on this matter in advance. In view of the current state of affairs, it seems to me that it would be wiser to join the Danish coalition of the willing, and thus at least to put pressure on European migration policy. With this Danish coalition of the willing, a coalition of common sense, I would also like to call it, we may not be able to get all European countries to join, but it will be a strong signal to the European Union. Your agreement with the Benelux countries to facilitate Dublin transfers is a good example of local cooperation by European partners who do not just want to wait for a European migration pact or a broad European coalition of the willing. It shows that there's another way to do it. I hope that in the coming years you will go much further along that path, rather than waiting passively for a much broader coalition of the willing that may never come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the reception network has been under enormous pressure for a very long time. Last year we failed several weeks to receive all the people who arrived immediately. Thanks to the enormous efforts of the employees of Fedasil and his partners, we have been able to take on everyone again since Christmas holidays. However, the number of people who wish to apply for international protection remains very high, which continues to increase the number of people in the reception network. In the coming weeks, it will again not be possible to assign a reception place to all those who submit themselves on the day on which they arrive if the influx remains so high. The reception network is under enormous pressure, and of course the staff of Fedasil and its partners are under enormous pressure. At the moment, we need to manage the reception crisis and arrive at a situation as soon as possible which once again allows for the reception of all applicants for international protection. The reception network should be made more resilient for the future, including by investing in sufficient buffer sites. Of course, other measures are also needed. They will probably be discussed at the end of this sitting. There are at present 178 convictions on one-sided petition in individual files for not giving asylum seekers shelter, which is punishable by a penalty. However, no periodic penalty payments were claimed in those individual proceedings as Fedasil always executes the judgments in good time. Fedasil recently paid up to EUR 2,000 in periodic penalty payments because it was unable to implement the judicial decision which required a family to be housed in different chambers of the same centre. This is the only individual case in which periodic penalty payments have been made. Fedasil was also ordered to pay periodic penalty payments of EUR 10,000 per day to execute the mayor of the city of Spa's order to limit the capacity of the local centre to 200 persons. No periodic penalty payments have yet been paid because there are still conversations with the mayor of Spa. The Court of First Instance has effectively condemned Fedasil and the Belgian State to register all applicants for international protection and to receive all asylum seekers. The judge imposed a penalty payment of 5,000 euros per unregistered and unrecorded person, with a maximum of 100,000 euros. I fully agree that the right to asylum and reception must be respected. However, given the state of the reception network, we are obliged to introduce a priority rule and to register a number of people on a waiting list. These are people who enter our country from another European country and who already have bed, bath and bread there. When pressure is put on the reception network and measures are imposed, it is particularly important to ensure that the available beds are given priority to those who have not applied for asylum anywhere and therefore have no bed, bath and bread. They should be granted to those who have not gone through asylum procedures or have not even been recognised as refugees. Those people are there. There are even people who are recognised as refugees in a particular European country and yet still come to Belgium and apply for new asylum here. This secondary migration pressure, the number of Dubliners, has a real impact on the Belgian reception network. Over the past few days, this has been discussed in a number of organisations. I would also like to thank Mr Segers, who has made this clear and has indicated through the social media that our country is under pressure. He indicated that measures are imposing themselves and also highlighted the distress that we are carrying. The Dubliners in the reception network must return to the first country where they applied for asylum. The waiting list for those who arrive here but actually already have bed, bath and bread in another country should not therefore be regarded as a form of shelter. Rather, priority should be given to those who do not have bed, bath and bread anywhere when the reception network is under pressure and the number of beds is limited. This is taking place in anticipation of European rules which should make it possible to effectively implement the policies to be pursued, namely to ensure that no one has bed, bath and bread in two, three, four or five countries at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, you mentioned the situation in which the influx remains as it is today. You may not have that influx under control on your own, but you still have some. You are personally responsible for the future influx and can thus help to reduce the pressure on the reception network due to reduced inflow. That is the key to success, not the creation of an infinite number of buffer sites, which may lead to an infinite increase in the number of asylum seekers. We will certainly come back to the talks with the mayor of Spa. We are interested in what the result will be. I think that increasing periodic penalty payments imposed by judges is a bad development which we must follow closely. After all, it is logical, especially in times of crisis, that certain rules of priority should apply. Asylum seekers who have already obtained asylum in another country and whose rights are thus already protected should not be given priority in that country with regard to reception. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u13	Question No 55024160 by Mr Moutquin was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u14	From the activity report of the Council for Foreign Affairs of 2020, we learn that the French-speaking Chamber treats matters substantially differently from the Dutch-speaking Chamber. We have discussed this problem on a number of occasions in committee, but year after year this problem does not appear to be addressed. Now it even seems to be getting worse. While the Dutch Chamber only takes a decision in 6,86 % of cases which differs from that of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, the French-speaking judges do so in no less than 22,97 % of cases. That's a huge difference. You would, according to an interview from De Standaard with yourself and Professor Dirk Vanheule of the University of Antwerp, intend to give the Council of Foreigners a greater discretion. I quote: 'One concrete example: if someone makes an appeal against a decision of the government, the Council deals with foreign disputes.' Last year, it happened over 14,000 times. The current legislation does not allow judges to add new elements to a file. This means that if, in the course of a procedure, there are new developments that can influence the ruling, think of the Taliban coup in Afghanistan, the judge himself cannot bring it. He can only destroy the decision of the asylum services and return the file as a whole, after which it will have to be dealt with again. This is a completely inefficient rule, which we want to address." How will the new Migration Code ensure that this measure does not reinforce the difference in the handling of cases by Dutch and French-speaking judges of the Council for Foreigners' Disputes? What additional measures, such as legislative work on and internal instructions for the Council on Aliens' Contests, will finally be taken to remedy the difference in treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u15	Mr Van Langenhove, thank you for your question. I'm glad you read the interview. The interviewees were only Mr Vanheule and Mr Leboeuf, whom I asked more than a year ago to set up and run a committee to accompany me in writing the migration code. I wasn't interviewed myself. I was pleased that De Standaard paid attention to the chairmen of that committee, who have been working hard for over a year to come up with clear rules to ensure a smaller to, in an ideal world, no difference between the decisions taken in the different language groups. Following a very wide survey of the actors concerned, they have put forward a proposal for guidelines for the migration code. These guidelines are now being discussed in the government. We want to get to work on it as soon as possible. I agree with the Presidents on a legal system and procedures whereby non-Belgen can be informed as soon as possible about their legal position. Anyone who fulfils the conditions for obtaining a residence permit must be informed as soon as possible. Failure to comply with the substantive conditions for obtaining a residence permit must have the irregularity of their stay established as soon as possible. They must be given the necessary follow-up to ensure that they can actually leave for another country, voluntarily if they can, forced if they have to. To this end, we propose a range of solutions. Specific to review procedures, judicial control should not be unnecessarily complex, procedurally limited and more efficient. In doing so, a single appeal should be ensured leading to a more efficient ruling that can effectively settle the dispute and which cannot be abused in order to escape the return procedure. This allows us to prevent repeated applications for residence and appeals. I am thinking of asylum seekers who always find new elements to appeal. I do not wish to call into question the independence of the judge, but this should not lead to divergent case law, as we now see in the Council of Foreigners' Disputes. I am convinced that coherent, clear and efficient residence conditions and procedures will contribute to better understanding and to a more correct and uniform implementation and interpretation of residence regulations. I understand the point you want to make. I can only tell you that, in my view, the power of reform of a judge to intervene should not be as broad as possible either because certain authorities have to decide and the judge has to decide whether or not the decision has been taken correctly. There is therefore a need to strike a balance: there is a need for a legal system in which judges can prevent a person from constantly introducing new elements to re-apply, without ending up in a system where the judge himself decides what to do, while it is up to authorities such as the DVD to take decisions on this matter. So I am absolutely not a big fan of a lot of reform powers for the judges. It is a question of finding the right flexibility to prevent asylum seekers from appealing ten times with each new element.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the comprehensive answer. When we observe the problem, we see that there is a great difference between the assessment by the Dutch-speaking judges and the French-speaking judges. The wider the discretionary power of the judges is made with the new migration code, in which one will either limit the discretionary power or extend it, the greater the difference between the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking judges is likely to become. It seems to me to be a good rule for the new migration code to limit the discretion of judges, to the extent that they are desirable and possible, and to limit the difference between judgments. I can tell between the lines that it is an objective of the new migration code to eliminate that huge, unjust difference, in addition to the objectives of greater transparency, less complexity, more efficiency. Hopefully you will also make it clear in the working group that this must be one of the pillars of the new migration code. In that sense, I was a little disappointed that you did not make any concrete proposals to eliminate that difference. We will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u17	Mr. Secretary of State, Sint-Laureins is an idyllic village in East Flanders, close to the Dutch border with few inhabitants. It is reported that there are plans to set up an asylum centre, as a result of the many asylum seekers and asylum applications. You're feverish looking for new places, but they're going to search Saint-Laureins defies every imagination. The mayor already stated that the planned asylum centre not only exceeds the capacity of the building, but also of its municipality. Who will be taken care of in the planned center, families or single men? Do you consider a village centre with only 2,800 inhabitants, such as in Saint-Laureins, an appropriate location for the installation of a centre for 240 asylum seekers? The region is already making considerable efforts with the centres in Eeklo and Sijsele. Would you like to add another centre to that? According to the mayor, the building is worn out, there is no water or electricity, no heating and fire safety would not be guaranteed. In short, many investments are needed to adapt the building to the intended purpose of an asylum centre. What is the estimated cost of this investment? When do you plan to have these works carried out? From the many reactions of the mayor and the announced manifestation, I understand that the communication between your services and the municipal administration has not been optimal. Please respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u18	Mr Depoostere, there is currently no agreement between all parties for the operation of a reception centre in Saint-Laureins. As a result, it has not yet been decided which target groups could be met. The proportion of families has increased enormously in the profiles that have entered the Klein Kastiltje in recent weeks. In any case, we are aiming for a mix of profiles insofar as this reflects the influx of the recipients. We always try to find the right mix there. Indeed, the building still requires investment. That's what I heard from the mayor during our phone call. Fedasil has already been able to determine that on the spot. These investments are largely borne by the owner. There, too, the negotiations are still ongoing, as is the estimate of costs. The municipality of Sint-Laureins is not excluded in advance as a location to organise a shelter. There are even smaller municipalities that have a shelter and where that works well. This often depends on the way things are prepared, the way Fedasil's staff or the managers of the reception centre are working on it and the way the neighbourhood is involved can ask questions to remove certain concerns. In a municipality of Zoutleeuw there was also a lot of noise about the shelter about three years ago. I've been there recently. The situation today is completely different. People rightly have concerns, but if they can be eliminated during a number of conversations, they will be fine. I went to Salt Lion to clean up the streets with the kids at the asylum center as part of the World Cleanup Day. They also helped fill the floods with sandbags in Flemish Brabant. If, in a small municipality, where people often know each other well and form a strong community, the asylum seekers are somehow involved, want to teach the community something and show themselves on their positive side, that can solve a lot. The widely heard criticism of cities is that they cannot do so because of the many metropolitan challenges that already exist. I understand that there are comments, just as I understand the comments from the cities. The question is how we deal with it and how we ensure that it is done properly. I contacted the mayor personally and informed him that we're investigating the plans right now. He then consulted with the Red Cross, which explained the plans to him. However, I would have liked to have done so in common. However, the mayor has decided to conduct the communication alone. I would have liked to have done that together, especially since I had taken the initiative to inform him. In order to prepare the plans, we could have looked at how we could properly inform the citizens. The more chaotic communication is, the more questions it raises, understandably. I hope we can do better in the next few weeks. Of course people are asking questions, it is up to politics to provide answers, and not to raise any more questions. I would like to give those answers together with the mayor to the people of Saint-Laureins.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, I would first like to mention the last element, namely communication. It doesn't matter who communicates, as long as there's communication. It cannot be the intention to leave the citizens in the dark if you want to plant an asylum centre somewhere. It seems logical that the mayor has taken the lead in this case. I will therefore join the mayor when he casts that it exceeds the carrying capacity of his small congregation. I support him because I believe that a large part of the support base is not only related to the profile, as you yourself have pointed out, but that there are particular concerns about the number of asylum seekers. 240 asylum seekers live in a municipality of 2,800 inhabitants, which, of course, exceeds the support of a municipality. You have a political problem, particularly the asylum crisis. You need to put these asylum seekers somewhere and you don't know where anymore. You don't remember what wood arrows to make. And you no longer have the support of the people. What you must do, and now I am speaking in general and not just for the benefit of Saint-Laureins, is no longer seeking more asylum centres. Above all, you need to reduce the number of asylum seekers. This is the only way to find a solution. In any case, the Flemish interest will continue to support the resistance, not only in Saint-Laureins, but also in other Flemish municipalities where you plant this, because the population is more than tired of this policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, you have mentioned several times in the media a tightening up of the policy on the return of asylum seekers who have already applied for asylum in another European country. That's what you were talking about earlier. You insist that they lose the right to care if they repeatedly refuse to return. Mr Secretary of State, have you already taken the floor and effectively refused the reception of the said asylum seekers? If so, how many persons were involved? If not, when will you deliver on those promises?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u21	Mr President, since Mr Rigot also raised a question on this subject, I will once again answer the PS-Flemish Interest Coalition together. Mr Rigot, Mr Van Langenhove, as you know, the reception network is under pressure today, despite the efforts made to create additional shelters. Among those who apply for asylum in Belgium, there are many who have already applied for asylum in another European Member State or even obtained protection status there. In the latter case, therefore, it concerns people arriving, going through the whole procedure and being recognised as refugees because of the need for protection, but then deciding to submit a new application in Belgium. This is not only putting pressure on our own reception network, it is also seriously undermining the entire European asylum system. Persons who are given the decision to move to another Member State should therefore clearly implement that decision. The Aliens Office will monitor more intensively those persons for whom it has been found that another Member State is competent and who have received a Dublin decision. I would like to avoid creating the illusion among asylum seekers that Belgium is the only country not applying the Dublin Regulation. On the contrary, its application takes account of fundamental rights and, in particular, of Article 3 of the ECHR. It is important that the Dublin decisions are taken and respected. Persons who have received Annex 26quater will be able to benefit from intensive support in the reception centre where they reside. So far, this support was limited to Fedasil's return centres. Those who do not stay in a centre will be invited to attend one of the ICAM (Individual Case Management Support) offices of the Aliens Office. During the interviews, the individual concerned will obtain explanations of his decision in Dublin and precise answers to his questions. It may also provide additional information. He will also be asked whether he understands all his options and the implications of his procedure. Finally, he will be asked whether he is prepared to cooperate in his voluntary transfer to the Member State responsible. This is in line with ICAM coaching, which is already available in Fedasil's return centres. If the applicant refuses this voluntary transfer, he or she may be forcibly returned. An applicant who resides in a reception centre and who does not go to the meeting may have his or her right to material assistance limited to medical aid, on the basis of Article 4 of the "Hospital Law". This new guidance pathway will start from the beginning of February in a number of reception centres and will subsequently be extended to all reception centres for asylum seekers. No material aid has been limited for that reason, but the invitations have been sent. The first talks will take place from February. A person who refuses the PCR test and thus prevents the Dublin transfer will have his transfer period extended from 6 to 18 months, which will allow the Aliens Office to work longer on the return of those who refuse a PCR test. The final solution is the requirement for PCR tests, as is already the case in Switzerland, Denmark and Germany. An estimate made by the Aliens Office indicates that, as at 31 December 2021, 4,255 cases were being processed by the Dublin cell. In any case, additional recruitment is foreseen for the Dublin Unit of the Aliens Office for the implementation of measures which intensify the support of this target group. So we are in the process of strengthening the DVZ as a whole. It concerns both the department dealing with humanitarian regularizations and the department dealing with short stays, and certainly the Dublin service which needs reinforcement, given the high influx of Dubliners. It is not possible to quantify the number of persons who have not carried out the return decision. After all, there are people who leave on their own initiative. In 2021, the Aliens Office was aware of 429 transfers. With regard to reception, there are approximately 380 applicants with an Annex 26quater residing in a reception centre and almost 1,800 applicants whose file is still under examination. However, the Fedasil database depends on individual encoding by social workers. These figures are therefore only an approximation of the number of files. This is probably an underestimation of the number. This target group is entitled to reception in accordance with European case law, but given the state of the reception network, it is no longer possible to accommodate all asylum seekers on the same day. It is for this reason that I have decided to give priority to vulnerable people and families. In concrete terms, this means that isolated men, with a Dublin or a protection status in another Member State, will be placed on a waiting list. I still want to point out that Fedasil will invite these people to be designated as a welcoming place as soon as there are enough places available. It is not a decision not to accept these people, it has been a decision to set a priority. You also ask me a few specific questions about people who are already protected in a Member State but who decide to apply again in Belgium. The reasons why they come to Belgium are diverse: the presence of the family in Belgium, a question of employment, a question of social security in the Member State, etc. These applications are always dealt with as a matter of priority by the asylum services. These cases do not fall within the scope of the Dublin Regulation. I am therefore very pleased with the ICAM staff who have joined us. They were primarily intended to strengthen the order to leave the territory, so that it is not just a piece of paper. They had to follow people individually for that. However, the potential of the group working at ICAM is much greater. Today, we prove that again, by inviting people in our centres to return to the first country where they have applied for asylum, for guidance from our ICAM staff. In this way, we can ensure that they respond to the demand for guidance and effective return. If they do not, we will take note of it and, on that basis, we will be able to exclude them from care. After all, there is a great deal of pressure on the shelter. Catching people who arrive here for the first time and can't get anywhere for bed, bath and bread is crucial. We must work on this, but we cannot continue to do so if the Dubliners' share in Belgium remains the same and or even increases. At some point the saturation point is reached. It is important that the existing Dublin rules are respected. A number of Member States may not always like this, but it is up to us to do what is necessary for the reception of people in need of bed, bath and bread and for whom there is nowhere else to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u22	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed reply. We saw again today punitive announcements in the media and on social media. There is a lot of work to be done in this regard, so I hope that this time it will not be just announcements. In 2018, there were 8,000 people who may have been underestimated by transiting asylum seekers or Dubliners who should return to the country where they had already obtained asylum and bed, bath and bread. In 2021 there were already 11,000, which is perhaps again a serious understatement. There's a lot of work to be done besides limiting the inflow, which should be the first rule. If we want to correct asylum and migration policies, sending the Dubliners back must be a priority of your policy. You say that we can then ensure that these people return to the country where they have already been granted asylum. I say we have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u23	Mr President, it is good to have another group to speak today, which has a different approach to the problem. Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, people on the run often have to leave everything behind, including their family members. Husbands live separated from each other for years. Unaccompanied minors threaten to grow up without their parents. Those who receive international protection have the right to reunite with their family members. The right to family life is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Unfortunately, this right for people to flee is sometimes difficult to enforce, because there are several obstacles. Applications are made in Belgian embassies, which are competent for the country of origin. Do I need to remind you of the problem that Afghan family members, for example, have to make a dangerous and expensive trip to Islamabad in order to start a procedure there under the right to family reunification? Moreover, the procedure for family reunification is also extremely complex. There are few lawyers in migration law who have fully mastered the procedure. It is also very difficult to find correct information about the procedure. That is why the Federal Ombudsman even speaks of a breach of important legal standards, such as adequate justification, care and passive information. In our country there are also very few services that can assist customers in family reunification. Until recently the CAW in Antwerp was apparently one of the few services, but due to a lack of time and resources that CAW also had to stop doing so. Refugees who fail to submit an application within the year must have sufficient means of subsistence and adequate accommodation before they can exercise their right to family reunification. For many newcomers that is not self-evident. Several obstacles have also arisen, as refugees are increasingly accused of abusing their right to family reunification. However, we forget that it is not a favour but a right. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of the problems outlined or the various obstacles that refugees face in the right to family reunification? Do you intend to guarantee or use information on family reunification? Do you want to support recognised refugees in their procedure? If so, how do you intend to do that? Do you intend to review the family reunification procedures in the light of the new migration code? Will it be the intention to simplify the procedure? Finally, how do you intend to support family members of recognised refugees who are currently unable to reach a Belgian embassy, as is the case for many people from Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u24	Mrs Platteau, the family members of persons to whom Belgium has granted international protection are entitled to family reunification. The conditions for this right to family reunification are laid down in the Aliens Act, provisions transposing the European family reunification Directive 2003/86/EC. It is not always easy to prove that the conditions are met, but proof of identity and family or related links is a necessary minimum in the procedure. Family members of beneficiaries of international protection also benefit from a number of exemptions from material conditions relating to housing, subsistence and health insurance if they submit an application within the year after the family owner has obtained the status of international protection. The Foreign Affairs Office shall make every effort to deal with visa applications from family members of beneficiaries of international protection as soon as possible. In addition, alternatives are proposed to individuals who are unable to prove their identity or family or related relationship by means of official documents. If the members of the family cannot demonstrate the link with official documents, the Foreign Affairs Office shall also take into account other valid evidence or may organise a maintenance or sometimes a DNA investigation. Information on the right to family reunification is available on the website of the Foreign Affairs Office and at Belgian embassies and consulates abroad. The committee working on the preparation of the new migration code will certainly also examine the family reunification procedure and propose clarifications and improvements. Finally, you also asked a question about family members who find it difficult to get to the embassy. In principle, visa applications should indeed be submitted to the Belgian diplomatic or consular post responsible for the applicant's place of residence. Members of the family of a foreigner protected by Belgium may present themselves at any Belgian diplomatic or consular post, but that possibility is not unlimited. In certain situations, the Foreign Office may designate a reference post or may also be asked to justify its chosen post, if there is no prior reason why it should address that post. Especially when it comes to people in Afghanistan, there are reasons for this. It's a complex situation there at the moment anyway. Getting to Islamabad is an even bigger challenge than getting things right in Islamabad once they get there. However, I am not the Minister of Foreign Affairs or Defence. So it is not for me to answer that. I am also waiting for what is going to happen in the Middle East and more precisely in Afghanistan to know how we can help the people of Afghanistan and contribute to the stabilisation of the region, which we have failed to achieve over the past few decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic672x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You refer, of course, to the conditions in the foreign law, according to which, among other things, the family relationship must be demonstrated. I have asked a question about this before, because there is often doubt about the family relationship, which means that those involved have to apply for a DNA test. It's a very expensive test. In the majority of cases, more than 90%, the supposed family bond appears to be correct. However, applicants must bear these costs. In my question at the time, I suggested that perhaps that reasoning should be reversed. After all, if the DNA test shows that people are in good faith, why do they have to pay for the costs? This is one of the obstacles in the procedure of family reunification, which, as you said, leads to high costs, but we can ensure that we remove this obstacle. It is a good thing that the Foreign Affairs Office gives this priority by examining visa applications as quickly as possible. Alternatives are also sought and information is provided on the DVZ website. Such things can always be better, because people will not always find their own way. In any case, it is a very good thing that the new migration code also envisages an improvement in the procedure. The problems of the Belgian consulates remain. Demand is growing, especially in a region such as Afghanistan from which many family members want to come here through family reunification. You are referring to the Foreign Ministers. We can wait for that, but perhaps we can make sure that these Afghans can submit their applications in a different way. Perhaps we should make more efforts to this end.
