ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u1	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55028114C by Mr Francken and Mr 55028555C by Mrs Safai. Mr Francken apologizes, but his question has already been postponed and therefore lapses. The same applies to his questions. 55028115C, 55028332C and 55028334C. Mrs Matz will also be excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, you recently said that Europe should be able to act more strictly if countries do not want to take back their own nationals. I agree with that in itself. You also want to link stricter visa and trade sanctions to this. However, we see in the figures that both forced and voluntary returns to Maghreb countries are historically low. We have discussed this many times. You say that we must act against this. That is fine, but I would have liked a little clarity on that. What sanctions do you consider appropriate against which countries? You stated that you had previously had bilateral talks with representatives of third countries about the withdrawal of their nationals who are not allowed to stay on our territory. Which countries are they talking about? I would like to have some clarification on that. Was your choice to sanction countries if they do not want to withdraw their nationals already discussed in the federal government? What was the point of view there? Is there any support for doing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u3	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, I do indeed believe that Europe should dare to take its full weight when third countries systematically violate their obligations under international law to take back their own nationals. We cannot ignore other violations of international obligations. Moreover, European leaders have already decided in the conclusions of the December European Council that the European Council, the Commission and the High Representative, together with the Member States, call for swift action to ensure effective return from the EU to the countries of origin by deploying all relevant policies and instruments and tools of the EU, "including the use of trade, visas and development cooperation as a lever on return," which I quote from the conclusions of the European Council. Visa sanctions can be a good means of improving return cooperation, provided certain conditions are met. There is currently a procedure set out in Article 25a of the Visa Code, based on a comparative report between Member States. As has already been said a few times, it was first used last year, in particular against Gambia. The sanctions are still in place, by the way. The content of the report and the countries that are now on the radar is confidential information, which means that I cannot tell you any more about it at the moment. It has to do with the fact that countries may be on the list, but that the European Union always starts from the possibility of finding a solution through diplomatic means. If the diplomatic path fails, it will end with a sanction. At this stage, therefore, it is logical that the European Union and the European Commission do not offer all the transparency about countries on the list. However, I can say that I and many of my colleagues at the European Council have indicated that there is frustration about many countries about non-compliance with the international obligation to take back their own nationals. The Member States are therefore ambitious in this respect, and I hope that the Commission will follow that. I also hope that the Commission will be able to convince countries to go along with the story without resorting to sanctions. But if necessary, we have a stick behind the door, ready to use. The Belgian position on this process was determined in the usual DGE format, and new sanctions will be brought into line. For the time being, however, no Council meeting is planned where this will be discussed, because we are at the stage of discussions with the European Commission in order to convince the countries in a diplomatic manner. At the end of the process, at the end of the year, there will be a final list of countries. The Gambia was symbolically important to me. It proves that we can and want to apply it effectively. I hope that in future it will be used for many more countries if they do not want to cooperate. I have a lot of contact with other countries. I have recently spoken with Egypt, Gambia, Vietnam, Colombia, Congo and Moldova. I'll give you the list of countries I've just heard, but there are contacts on a weekly basis, either through myself, or through the Foreign Office, or through the embassies. In any case, we intend to work hard on this, myself and also my successor, in the coming weeks and months. In your question you referred to the Maghreb countries. That is a legitimate concern. I have indicated a few times that the MOU that was closed a while ago for me is an empty box that I am frustrated about. We were then in the context of the attacks. There was a great deal of willingness to cooperate from those countries. But it has only been agreed to make a year's identification. There wasn't even a deal about getting back. One could identify everyone for a year. That's done business. In any case, I believe that we should try to go much further. The great difficulty today is of course covid. After all, there are countries that are hypertight to enter the country. For example, there is an obligation to double vaccination for anyone who is still trying to enter a particular country. Of course, that doesn't make the job easy. After all, you know that the debate on compulsory vaccination, for example, in many countries brings about vigorous debates, including in this country and in this Parliament. So that's not easy. Little by little, however, the measures are being relaxed, at least intra-European, which is good for Dublin. We see that the things that are necessary, such as PCR tests, to be able to move, are being eased. The more relaxed it is in this area, the better it is for the return. This means that we, or at least our services, have been freed from covid, so that they can do their job as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, we largely agree on the principle of sanctions against countries that refuse to take their nationals back. That principle was indeed worked out by the European Council. It is important to do this effectively now. You refer to the decisions taken in respect of Gambia. You call that symbolically important. The Gambia, however, is an easy country to sanction, as relations and migratory flows are not so intense. That's not gonna make the difference. We still have to see that the principle is now being extended further towards countries with which European relations are more intense and to which we would also send more people back. You refer to the memorandum of understanding with Morocco from the previous government as an empty box. What, however, are you delivering? Do you have any further arrangements with Morocco or the Maghreb countries? The answer is no. Hopefully your successor will go a lot further in that, with your government's cover.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u5	Mr. Secretary of State, your predecessor, under the Michel government, had established a fee mechanism to be paid for the introduction of the files of applicants for international protection. My group's position on this is not new, and everyone knows it: in our view and according to the recommendations of international bodies, such a fee cannot constitute an obstacle or a block to the introduction of a file, on the one hand, and that amount should not exceed what is required of a Belgian national to obtain his identity papers, on the other hand. One thing is very positive: you have recently reformed the amounts requested, trying to objective them, in particular as a result of legal proceedings. However, I would like to know what is the situation with regard to the amounts already collected and for which complaints are still pending or could still be lodged. What is your attitude in this regard? Have you given instructions to your services on this and if so which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u6	Mr President, Mr Rigot, first of all, applications for international protection are not subject to fees. Where the status of a refugee or a beneficiary of international protection is recognized, the amount to be paid for obtaining a residence permit shall not exceed what is requested of a Belgian national concerning his or her identity papers. The amounts for other applications for residence, such as applications for family reunification or applications for residence on the basis of a contract of employment, have been changed, as you have said, because the Council of State had noted that my predecessor had set these amounts without demonstrating that they covered the actual costs of administrative processing of the applications concerned. A figure had been assigned without really linking it to the cost. As the new amounts are justified by a measure of the workload of the processing of the applications concerned, this legal uncertainty has been removed. As you indicated, given that these amounts were not considered correct because they were not related to a certain cost, some people appealed. This, of course, costs the State, as well as the people concerned. The situations in which a fee already collected can be reimbursed are detailed on the website of the Aliens Office. Reimbursement of a fee paid in error or paid for an application filed between 2 March 2015 and 26 June 2016 may be requested from the Aliens Office. Reimbursement of the increased portion of the fee may be requested if the fee was paid for an application filed between 1 March 2017 and 2 January 2019. I do not intend to instruct the Aliens Office to consider other situations at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. You had the concern to settle a situation which had no meaning and whose decision had been taken aberrantly in the past, leading in fact to convictions by the Belgian State. I thank you for the follow-up and details of your answers that are perfectly suited to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u8	Mrs. Matz is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, you pay a lot of periodic penalty payments and there are different procedures. Which periodic penalty payments did you pay exactly? On what file? What convictions have been followed? Did you appeal? What is the expected outcome? How many times have you been convicted of not giving shelter since the beginning of your mandate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, last week we saw the paper that sent asylum seekers out of the Klein Kasteelje. They should do it with less than four lines of text. They may still submit their applications. Afterwards you will be escorted to the exit," it says. For information, please contact an e-mail address of Fedasil. Getting an Internet connection is not at all evident for those people, let alone sending an e-mail itself. In this situation, asking for non-binding information via mail is anything but appropriate. Reception is a right, but if there is no place, we owe them nothing, as it seems the message. It really can't go on like this. Today, even asylum seekers who have enforced their reception on a judicial basis are no longer received. They are apparently invited again to the Klein Kastiltskin, but will not receive shelter. Mr Secretary of State, what will you do for the asylum seekers who have enforced their reception? Will you provide better emergency assistance for those asylum seekers who are not assigned a place? During the previous questioning session, I asked you how and when you anticipated the end of the reception crisis. You did not answer me at the time. Can you at least give us some insight into your plans this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u11	Mijnheer de voorzitter, collega's, since Mrs Matz, although not present, has also introduced a question on this subject, I will answer in both languages. I do not think I should repeat that I and my services are doing everything possible to put an end to these reception problems as quickly as possible. It is true that Fedasil's labour law banks have several times condemned the granting of reception if an applicant could not be received immediately after the registration of the application for international protection. Fedasil is doing everything possible to provide shelter to those for whom she was convicted as soon as possible in order to allocate a shelter, which in most cases also succeeds. If Fedasil does not carry out or is unable to carry out that conviction voluntarily, a penalty payment must be paid in some cases. For example, in 2020, Fedasil paid EUR 688 in a case in which applicants could not be received in the registration centre on the day of their application for international protection. In 2021, it concerns EUR 800 in a case in which applicants could not be heard on the day of their application for international protection. Furthermore, it was also once a penalty payment of 2,000 euros in a case in which Fedasil was sentenced to receive an applicant in a specific centre, while there was no place available. In this case, Fedasil brought an action against the attachment. In 2022 no periodic penalty payments were paid. It is true that the French-speaking labour court in Brussels has added to these decisions a communication in which it asks the prosecutor to investigate the existence of a coalition of civil servants. I have taken note of this and wait to see which suite will be reserved for it. I fully understand the frustration of the labour court, as I communicated to the president of this court in a letter. The numerous unilateral motion orders cost a lot of time to the court, and to the staff of Fedasil as well. I can only repeat that it is not a political choice not to welcome people who apply for international protection. There are simply not enough seats at the moment. We continue to face enormous obstacles in opening up additional places. It is also good to note that over the next three weeks, with a number of additional efforts, we will be able to create a small 400 new reception places. The Commissioner-General also promised me to do everything in his power to increase the CGRA's output. This is obviously essential. As long as the CGVS cannot follow and procedures are not speeded up, it is difficult to have sufficient capacity in the reception centres. I am therefore quite disappointed that the court seems to point Fedasil at it as if it had been orchestrated and as if there was a will to let people sleep on the street. I would like to stress once again that this is not the case. The system of priorities you mention is always applicable. You're asking me why. If it is not applied, the problems become more important. We have problems that prevent us from registering all asylum applications. We have already seen what has been done in the past by the fact that there are not enough reception places. Only people who have a place can enter the Petit-Château and the others stay on the street. This sorting is done very quickly in front of the door in the morning. The vulnerable first, the others after. That's how it used to be. Today, all asylum applications are registered. Vulnerable people first receive a reception place, after it is the isolated men who apply for asylum for the first time and then the isolated men who have already applied for asylum in the European Union can register on the waiting list. In this way, we have at least one trace of people who need a reception place. Persons who are not immediately received and therefore receive the information document will also receive oral information from the staff at the registration centre about this document. As you indicate yourself, the data subject can also send an e-mail to obtain more information. Of course, the person concerned can invoke his right to legal assistance and claim a pro-Deo lawyer, given his capacity as an applicant for international protection. In addition, we must, of course, continue to do what is necessary to restore sufficient capacity. Fedasil continues to provide capacity. The asylum authorities were and are also being strengthened in order to achieve greater outflow. This, too, is an important part of the solution, as is compliance with the Dublin rules, which should prevent people who have already been registered elsewhere from putting additional pressure on the reception network.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, you replied to my written question that you have already been sentenced to almost EUR 1 million for not receiving asylum seekers. You quote a number of figures: 688 euros in 2020 and 800 euros in 2021. The rest is paid for. However, have you appealed in the proceedings in which you were convicted? I did not receive an answer to that question. We note that we are in a crisis of reception and that taxpayers have to pay for it. That is where the naive policy of this government leads: a financial hangover and people who have to sleep on the streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, when you talk about sans papers, you say, "The law is the law." However, every time you talk about the right to care, this law suddenly seems less important. You are very strict with the others, but very lenient with yourself. You wouldn't want to leave that impression, would you? You also say that it is not a political choice not to take these people in, but simply that there are not enough places to take care of them. However, for the Ukrainian refugees, you have managed to receive them all, which is very good news. Then why can't we do it for the sans papers? Then you dare to say that it is not a political choice. I wonder what choice it is. Finally, I asked for the second time when this crisis will end, how you will manage it and what policy principles you will apply to it. You still owe me the answers to that. We will keep coming back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, according to the Reception Act, asylum seekers have the right to medical assistance and care necessary to lead a life that meets human dignity. In concrete terms, asylum seekers are entitled to all benefits included in the RIZIV nomenclature. Fedasil is responsible for its reimbursement. Similarly, asylum seekers who do not reside in a collective reception centre are entitled to medical care paid by Fedasil. In order not to have to pay for the care, the asylum seeker should apply for a requisitorium in advance as proof that Fedasil will reimburse the costs. The healthcare provider must then send the invoice to the Medical Costs Cell in order to receive the payment. In practice, however, this system is cumbersome for the asylum seeker. Sometimes it takes a long time for an asylum seeker to receive a requisitorium. As a result, asylum seekers are less inclined to apply for care and continue to walk around with certain diseases for longer. The Medical Costs Cell would not always be accessible to the caregivers either. Recently, a midwife contacted me because she has been waiting months for a refund of an invoice by the Cell Medical Costs. She had tried to reach the Medical Cost Cell several times by telephone and by e-mail. She also indicated that there is a general problem of late payment or default compared to the medical care providers. As a result, some healthcare providers would no longer be inclined to help asylum seekers, leaving them in the cold in the field of medical care. Are you aware of the problem outlined? Is it true that there are problems with Fedasil's Cell Medical Costs regarding the accessibility and payment deadlines of the invoices? How do you evaluate the application procedure for obtaining the requisitorium? What do you think is causing the problems? Is there an underbestaffining? What will you do to ensure and improve the reimbursement of medical assistance for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u15	Mrs Platteau, I am aware that the Medical Costs Cell is not always easily accessible. I have therefore asked Fedasil to improve this. Fedasil's Cell Medical Costs is the first point of contact for the payment of medical costs for asylum seekers residing outside the reception structures. It is therefore important that the service is accessible. In 2021, more than 47,000 requisitions were dispatched. That is 45% more than in 2020. The system is therefore effective. However, there are several reasons for the possible delays and difficult accessibility. For example, there are more asylum seekers living at a private address. There are therefore also more applications for tenlastame and for payment. In addition, there are logistical problems, such as invoices sent to the applicant himself rather than to Fedasil or incomplete invoices. In order to improve the current system and ensure medical assistance for asylum seekers, the current team will be strengthened. Fedasil is committed to improving its communication and available information on access to healthcare. The most important thing is that we strengthen our staff at the CGVS, at the DVZ and at Fedasil. We must do so at all services. Your question is justified. It is important that Fedasil strengthens the team there as well. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It is a good thing that you acknowledge the problem and that you or your successor will do everything in their power to resolve it. I hope that we will soon see improvement on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u17	Question No 55028946C by Mr Hervé Rigot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the social partners in the construction sector, Fedasil and your firm have concluded a cooperation agreement allowing construction companies to recruit large-scale asylum seekers in a sector where asylum seekers could contribute. Cooperation began with a pilot project in Anderlecht. Other projects will be launched in Flanders and Wallonia. Asylum seekers may start working four months after applying for asylum and remain active for the duration of their proceedings. As part of the project, they will be informed on a large scale of the possibilities of working in the construction sector. This will include the organisation of employment days, business visits and information sessions. Potential candidates shall be examined to determine their motivation, language skills, experience, etc. On this basis, asylum seekers can be recruited immediately or oriented towards the right profession. Mr Secretary of State, how have federated entities been involved in the implementation of these pilot projects? Has this item been put on the ICD agenda? How will pilot projects be evaluated and within what time frame? In the case of a positive assessment, can this mechanism be considered for other sectors in need? As we have heard today, Forem points the finger at many sectors that are in short supply and need labour. If so, how will these devices be integrated into single permit procedures? What are the agencies responsible for reviewing applications? What is the responsible department within Fedasil? Are specific rules applicable to the remuneration of Fedasil by the beneficiaries of these hirings? Indeed, if it works, at some point, there will be income for those who benefit from it. In concrete terms, what will be their interventions in the reception set up for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u19	Mr President, Mr Rigot, the regional employment agencies have been informed of the cooperation and will be involved in the development of the pilot projects. Various topics concerning the activation of applicants for international protection will be discussed at the ICD, although it is not a question of discussing concrete pilot projects where cooperation already exists. The main objective of the action plan and to create a bridge between our target group and the labour market. We want to support people who want to work and not employ as many people as possible. But obviously, there are many people who want to work. The new department of Fedasil is putting in place a monitoring system which also envisages qualitative monitoring. The concrete modalities of the evaluation still need to be discussed with each pilot project. In view of your question about other sectors in need, yes! In addition to these projects, we are also interested in other sectors and for the time being, mainly the companies that contact us themselves. When choosing, we pay attention to areas where there is a shortage and focus on accessibility for our residents and diversity within the sectors in order to be able to interest multiple profiles within our target group. Fedasil's current pilot projects are part of the general work permit rules for applicants for international protection. The managers of the selection are mainly the companies themselves. In addition, the competent employment services and possibly third-party organisations are also involved. Fedasil is not responsible for the selections of course. Any person who works and stays in a reception centre falls within the scope of the contribution system as well as those who are employed in the framework of this cooperation. The Royal Order on the Contribution System is being amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers and I am pleased that this system is being deployed. We know that Flanders and Wallonia suffer from a shortage of essential jobs. You have to keep an eye on it. The amendment of the Royal Decree will play a leading role in reducing the contributions to the reception, so as to make these jobs attractive, while avoiding making them a mode of financing. I am pleased to take note of the amounts that will be committed in the future and to attend the participation of applicants who work at their reception in the Fedasil network. For the rest, I invite you to remain attentive, in the monitoring of these projects, to cooperation with the federated entities. Great opportunities are to be seized both by the latter and by the economic sector and refugees. The image of welcome in Belgium will be only better. We will therefore devote our full attention to the developments of this pilot project, which, in any case, is worth implementing and which I hope will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u21	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, your colleague in charge of Justice launched last March an awareness-raising campaign for Ukrainian refugees to ensure that they are aware of the risks of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. This is an excellent initiative. We have received a great deal of testimony in the committee on trafficking in human beings, which demonstrates the need for good information and awareness, because many men and women do not even know that they are in exploitative conditions. Mr Secretary of State, has this campaign been relayed by your services within the reception structures and the general public of the services under your responsibility? If so, how? If not, why? It must also be considered that the risk of exploitation is not the sole concern of Ukrainian refugees, but it concerns all those who are present in our territory today, regardless of their status. Have you considered adapting and amplifying this campaign to the general public of your services? If so, how? If not, why? In any event, has an evaluation of this campaign been carried out jointly by you and the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u22	Mr Rigot, for your first question, my answer is yes. The SPF Justice awareness campaign is disseminated to Ukrainian refugees through various communication channels: posters in Ukrainian glued to the walls, digital screens in the registration centre at Palace 8, etc. Information and contacts for victims of trafficking in human beings are included in the general brochure which is also distributed to all Ukrainian refugees at the registration centre and which is available on the info-ukraine.be website. The anti-exploitation awareness campaign is available on a separate website on the same site. Then, no, the same campaign is specifically reserved for Ukrainian refugees. The three centres for victims of trafficking in human beings – Payoke, PAG-ASA and Sürya – as well as the SPF Justice are currently working on the creation of a central contact point and information platform for victims of trafficking in human beings. When these channels of communication are operational, Fedasil will cooperate with the FPS Justice to disseminate the awareness campaign and make the point of contact known to asylum-seekers' reception centres. This campaign can be shared via social workers, posters and on the website for asylum seekers (fedasilinfo.be). These bodies are also preparing an information brochure for actors working with Ukrainian minors and an awareness-raising brochure for Ukrainian minors themselves. These publications relevant to the reception network will be disseminated to those working with Ukrainian refugees, as well as to all reception workers as soon as they become available. The campaign is not disseminated through the asylum-seekers' reception network, as several other channels already exist to raise awareness among asylum-seekers for international protection. Attention to this issue is also increased at both Fedasil and the Aliens Office. I would also like to refer to the Action Plan on Trafficking in Human Beings 2021-2025 in which several services are involved. In addition, there is an essential distinction between the two different target groups. Persons under temporary protection have immediate access to the labour market and are therefore immediately dependent on themselves. Applicants for international protection benefit from better supervision during the procedure and are therefore prepared by Fedasil for their access to the labour market. Since the beginning of the Ukrainian crisis, Fedasil has participated in meetings organized by the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Combating Human Trafficking in Ukrainian Refugees. Therefore, I think I can answer yes to your last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u23	Secretary of State, thank you for your very enriching answers. I believe that good initiatives are being taken by Fedasil, which we have had the opportunity to hear from some members during our hearings on trafficking in human beings. A comprehensive approach is essential. Similarly, attention should be given to the Ukrainian public. This is entirely justified, since it puts itself at the forefront of vulnerabilities. Another public not to be forgotten is formed by transmigrants, especially minors. I always come back to this support provided by MSF at the pre-reception centre until 15 July. You said that with Fedasil, you wanted to persevere. I hope that this will take shape in the near future. And then, if this is the last time we see each other, I will not ask you the question: will you be elected this Saturday, yes or no? I don't know. Anyway, I hope so for you. Will you quickly find a successor, yes or no? I also don't know, but I hope you know that. I hope, anyway, that your successor will be at our disposal and answer as well as you to the questions that we ask you. Good road to you, and see you soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, in an answer to a written question, you stated that 385 removal attempts failed last year because of opposition from those concerned. In addition, more than 700 removals were cancelled for various reasons. In these removals, aggression is sometimes used by those involved. In some cases, employees of the DVZ were also injured. I have a number of questions about this. Are the costs of failed forced removals due to opposition from those concerned recovered from them? How does that happen? There is therefore also occasional aggression by those involved against staff. In how many cases did you or your administration file a complaint? When are we going to have a bourgeois party for employees? What's the policy on that? How will you get the number of failed removals down? Are you planning any initiatives on this? How do you want to increase the safety of the accompanying staff? Are you in agreement with your colleague, Minister Verlinden, or what is to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u25	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, the costs of the failed forced removals are not borne by the foreigner concerned. In most cases, the Foreign Affairs Office uses non-cost tickets in case the flight fails. Recovery of repatriation costs can be recovered from the foreigner concerned in specific cases, as provided for in the Aliens Act. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that we are assuming that there has been no aggression and that there are no injuries to the staff. In most cases, a failed attempt by resistance refers to DEPU stating orally that it does not want to leave or to a refusal of a PCR test and therefore not to physical resistance. In 2021, no complaints were lodged by staff or by the administration in response to opposition in a removal attempt. The Vermeersch II Committee has drawn up a roadmap for forced removal, which is followed by the DVZ. That roadmap shall initially provide for removal without escort, unless the profile of the person concerned does not permit it. The alien has the right to refuse to board the plane. That will then be noted as opposition to the departure. In most cases, as I have just said, it is an oral refusal or, in the current context, it is also a refusal to accept a PCR test. The DVZ has already taken many initiatives to encourage people to leave without resistance. Examples include the clear framework and information provided by the return escorts in the closed centres and also in the prisons. Training on aggression control was also developed for all staff involved in the supervision of removal. Such training shall be continuously deployed and repeated on an annual basis for all staff members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u26	I note that the costs are not recovered by the circumstances and the nature of the tickets, but I find it striking to learn that no complaints were made last year, even in cases of violence. As far as refusing PCR tests is concerned, you had provided for an initiative to require PCR tests, for the time being without success. I wonder if your successor will succeed. I think this was my last oral question to you. In any case, I wish you every success in your further career, Mr Secretary of State, but not too much, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u27	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, there are many motivated staff in Fedasil's reception centres who are very concerned about the fate of unaccompanied minors. In difficult working conditions, they do everything in their power to guide these children and young people well during an uncertain period in their lives. However, despite their efforts here too, the crisis of care makes that the staff cannot adequately guide and frame all children. Recently I received reports of problems at the Poelkapelle shelter. Due to the increase in unaccompanied underage foreigners sometimes six children sleep in one small room. The lack of privacy among the often young teenagers causes tension and hinders a good night's sleep. Moreover, it appears that young people receive a weekly budget of around EUR 30, which they themselves have to pay for their own meals. However, can we expect 14- and 15-year-olds to go to the supermarket with a budget of 30 euros, to prepare healthy, varied meals? As a result, many of them use the budget to eat fast food and buy pita on certain days, after which they don't eat anything at all on other days. Moreover, the centre of Poelkapelle is also far from the cities where the young people go to school. There are bus connections, but often they are poor connections, which make them late for school, with the necessary problems. Mr Secretary of State, I understand that the crisis in reception poses many challenges, but we must nevertheless continue to guard the greater importance of the child on the run. That is why I have the following questions. Are you aware of the problems outlined here? Is there sufficient staff to accompany unaccompanied minors? How many escorts are provided per unaccompanied minor stranger? Will more educators and social workers be recruited? Do you manage to find adequate staff? What is your opinion on the scheme whereby the children themselves have to vouch for their meals? Is that standard practice in centres where unaccompanied minors reside? What is the weekly budget allocated for this purpose? Will that budget be increased now that we find that the prices of shopping carts are rising because of inflation? Can we possibly work with a caterer, who can provide healthy, varied meals for that target group? Can we not better accommodate unaccompanied underage foreigners in centres close to schools? What policy are you pursuing in this respect? What other steps can be taken to better frame unaccompanied minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, since September 2018, Fedasil has been struggling with shocks in the management of its care network for unaccompanied minors. These shocks occur in the opening or activation of reception sites, the conversion of reception sites, the deployment of emergency shelters, the taking of temporary measures, etc. Although there were many additional places, the reception network is currently almost saturated, especially in the second phase. This situation has a direct impact on staff in the centres, but also, and above all, on reception conditions. Fedasil is looking for short-term solutions to respond to the rapid increase in intake, but also to relieve the pressure on staff. The new management plan at Fedasil includes a qualitative reinforcement of the teams monitoring unaccompanied minors and gives priority, more generally, to all young people aged 0 to 25. The aim is to respond as well as possible to the needs of minors. The staff framework for the guidance of unaccompanied minors shall consist, depending on the number, of a head of service, one or more educators/social workers and social escorts. The staff framework provides for 1 companion per 4 minors. The escorts work in shifts of 8 or 12 hours, where in the work schedule the focus is on presence in the evenings and weekends, so at times when the minors are at home in the shelter. From 40 unaccompanied minors a social companion is also provided at night. In centres with less than 40 unaccompanied minors, reception staff supervise at night. The priority is to make best use of existing staff expertise, consolidate and strengthen teams with trained and qualified social workers. The new staff plan 2022 increased staff resources for the supervision of unaccompanied minors. As for many functions, it is not always easy to find sufficient staff quickly. This is often also regionally bound. The self-boiling by the minors presents you with quite a problem. However, the self-cook fits in with a pedagogical vision. One of the main objectives of the reception vision is to strengthen and develop the autonomy of the minor who is ready to do so. Allowing young people to manage a budget, make their own purchases and cook is an added value. It is clear that this is an educational activity, which must be supervised by the educators. The current weekly budget is EUR 47.90. For the time being, there is no provision for an indexation of that amount. Self-cooking is not a general practice in the reception centres, as the infrastructure is very different. Sometimes self-cooking is possible, sometimes that is not the case. The same applies to our partners. You also asked questions about going to school with the minors. That is, of course, very important. Fedasil is studying the surrounding school environment as part of the opening of a new childcare centre for minors. The aim is to be aware of all available school-related opportunities. Mobility is also an important factor, as the centre must be sufficiently accessible by public transport. You also asked for other steps to improve the guidance and framework. Fedasil will integrate the Unaccompanied Minors cell into a Youth Cell, which coordinates policies on unaccompanied minors, accompanied minors and young adults. There will therefore be a general cell specific to young people, which will examine the broad approach to this. In this way, a coherent policy is possible and we avoid too large differences between, for example, the approach of a 17-year-old and an 18-year-old. Fedasil will further develop pathways that meet their specific needs in cooperation with other actors, including Youth Assistance. Fedasil also continues to focus on the structural embedding of preventive and repair-oriented work within the organisation itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u29	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. It is clear that Fedasil is very committed to the framing of unaccompanied minors. I think this is very important. That is also clear from your answers. However, what is determined in theory is not always reflected in practice. With regard to self-cooking, I understand the educational aspect, but educators and supervisors must have the necessary space and time. If the workload increases, those are the things that are coming along. On some days eating a pitta and on others nothing, that doesn't seem very educational to me. I understand the difficult conditions in which work is being carried out, but it is important to keep the finger on the wrist and see where to improve. I understand the cell is going to look into that. It is also good that the target group from 0 to 25 years is sufficiently large.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, my question is somewhat broader than that of Mrs Daems, who refers in particular to reports on suicide attempts and on automutilation. We note that the average lead time of an application for international protection has risen to 300 days. Some asylum seekers are even waiting two to three years for an answer from the CGVS, which is extremely long. These lengthy procedures create a lot of stress and uncertainty for people on the run who, moreover, often suffer from severe trauma complications. While waiting, asylum seekers in overcrowded reception centres should share a room with other refugees, also often traumatized. According to various experts, all these factors contribute to the psychological suffering of residents of collective shelters. Recent figures show that no fewer than 68 suicide attempts took place in the asylum centres in 2021. This is an increase compared to 2017. The number of self-mutilation has also increased considerably. Well, that's disturbing, isn't it? The overcrowding of the network and the uncertainty of these lengthy procedures will undoubtedly have an impact on the well-being of refugees. We must ensure that we pay attention to the mental well-being of refugees in the shelters and do everything we can to improve that. How do you interpret the increase in suicide attempts and automutulations in the shelters? Are there studies on the impact of the type of care or on the duration of the procedure on mental well-being? Will the mental well-being of residents in the shelters be monitored? How does this happen? For example, do there exist indicators for this, which are followed by Fedasil? How many psychologists are currently working in the shelters? Are there enough psychologists available? What else will you do to improve the mental well-being of residents of shelters?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, in 2021 there were 68 suicide attempts in the Belgian asylum centres. This is a result of the Belgian reception policy, despite the not to be underestimated work that Fedasil employees deliver on a daily basis. This should also be emphasised here, because this is absolutely not a criticism of the employees of Fedasil, who give the best of themselves every day. It is the hopeless situation in which many asylum seekers find themselves who are taking their toll. The long wait for a decision, the lack of privacy and self-determination, overcrowded centers: these are very clear material conditions that people can push over the edge. This is, of course, about people who are in anything but an easy situation. They all run away from home in search of a better and safer life. For that, they are prepared to undergo inhumanities. It is known that the journey is dangerous. The fact that they are trying to get out of life out of despair in an apparently safe context says a lot about the inhumanity that an asylum system can have. There has indeed been extra investment in speeding up decisions, but I am not hopeful about the other matters. Every day, asylum seekers are still refused places. The centers are overcrowded. The individual guidance that asylum seekers can help to find a meaningful day-to-day solution is therefore called into question. Asylum seekers face different barriers to participating in our society. This mental health issue must be taken very seriously. We need a plan. What are you going to do? How can we ensure more psychological follow-up? How can we ensure a better quality of life? How can we improve social and legal support for asylum seekers? How can we offer a decent and stable living environment? How can we offer a perspective of hope and future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u32	Colleagues, the figures on suicide attempts have been communicated to Parliament some time ago. It is true that in 2021 there were a total of 68 suicide attempts out of a total of 27,676 residents, compared to 21 attempts in 2017 out of a total number of residents of 17,788. So that's 10,000 more residents in 2021 than in 2017. These figures include not only the attempts, but also the threats of suicide, which are rightly identified, but may offer some nuance. In 2017, no effective suicides were registered. In 2021, there were two. Unfortunately, the figures for 2017 are only partial, as there are four months missing. Fedasil only then started the systematic registration of these incidents. If comparisons are to be made, the figures must, of course, be placed in relation to the number of persons received in order to draw relevant conclusions. It is, of course, important to monitor this carefully and to be alert to possible other explanations in the coming years. Every suicide, every suicide attempt or threat is obviously one too many. We must do everything we can to avoid this and to ensure a qualitative psychological framework for the residents of the reception centres. When one looks at the broader picture, it concerns 0.2% of residents in the centres who make an attempt or indicate a threat. For 2021, the asylum centres are so close to the average of the Belgian population, where there is also a lot of work to reduce suicide rates. In 2018, 0.2% of the Belgian population attempted suicide. That's a sad figure for the whole population. There is still a great deal to be done about mental well-being, throughout society, and therefore in our asylum centres. There are studies that measure or map the impact of the reception and duration of the procedure on mental well-being in other European countries. Of course, we can also assume in Belgium that a long asylum procedure is not good for mental well-being. That is why we are making every effort to speed up procedures by recruiting additional staff in the short term. In the medium term, we are working on a migration code with fast, efficient procedures to keep people waiting less long. It is, of course, also known that this target group is particularly vulnerable, has undergone various traumas and is in a very precarious situation when waiting for a decision. Fedasil therefore watches over the mental well-being of the residents. An applicant for international protection shall also be registered whether there is a need for psychological guidance and whether it should be intensive. This is recorded on arrival and may subsequently be changed according to the needs. Psychologists were recruited by Fedasil only for the first phase in the reception centres. In the second and third stages, i.e. in the reception structures where residents stay for a long time, asylum seekers are always referred to external psychologists. In general, there are sufficient psychologists available, but in some regions, often regions that are further away from urban areas, and for some target groups, such as young people, it is sometimes difficult to obtain timely access to a psychologist. However, this is a problem in society as a whole. It therefore also affects the applicants for international protection. We will continue to focus on improving the mental well-being of the residents. We do this, among other things, by improving the living and living conditions of the residents and by focusing on language lessons and leading them to work and activity. The fact that people can also follow a formation also helps. The project 'asylum seeker seeks match' to lead asylum seekers not only to work, but also to a training that they can follow to be usefully occupied also contributes. Fedasil also wants to focus on prevention, including by offering group activities with a specific focus on mental well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that we have to look at these figures in a nuanced manner, but, in relation to the number of residents, we still see a doubling of the number of suicide attempts. That is something that we must be vigilant about. We must be alarmed by that. Any suicide attempt at a shelter must make us think and reflect on the conditions in the centres. It is good that we record those incidents and do the monitoring. In my opinion, the Fedasil study department is doing the necessary work. I fully follow you when you point out the importance of eliminating delays in the handling of dossiers and speeding up procedures. The greatest risk factor for mental well-being is a hopeless period, the uncertainty in the waiting period. You're referring to the migration code. I hope that your successor will work on this so that we can successfully bring to an end the work you have started. I also follow your commitment to work, activities and training. That is absolutely an important priority. Finally, as regards better mental well-being, once people are recognised as refugees, this can promote their integration, but better mental well-being can also be important if people get a negative decision and have to work on their return. Enough mental resilience is then very important. That is probably how I put my last question to you, Mr Mahdi. I also wish you every success in your new role as CD&V President. Maybe we'll see you again as a Member of Parliament. After all, you are the first successor to the province of Flemish Brabant. Maybe we'll get you here in the Chamber as a colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, we cannot accept that asylum seekers remain victims of the poor state of the asylum system. They deserve a hospitable, safe shelter and quick decisions. They deserve to participate and contribute to our society, especially as long as no decision has been taken on their file. Addressing the saturation of reception capacity and overcrowded centres is crucial here. It is also important to remove the barriers to participation in our society. They remain too high in different areas. One has to wait four months before one can practice a job. Vocational training is given only in French or Dutch. These courses often only start in September. These are just a few examples of barriers. I myself taught Dutch for fourteen years to foreign-speaking adults. They told us about those barriers that have an incredibly big impact on them. It's literally vital to them. Furthermore, it remains important to address long periods of residence in collective centres. Studies show that asylum seekers staying in collective centres for more than six months carry an increased risk of negative psychological effects. You are right to always talk about the need for rapid decisions at the CGVS, but the extension of small-scale reception is also very important. I therefore hope, Mr Secretary of State, that you will pass this opinion on to your successor. After all, I suspect that these are really your last moments as Secretary of State. I also wish you every success as CD&V President, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic828x.u35	We have come to the end of our work for today. Mr Secretary of State, we thank you once again for the good cooperation in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs. We wish you success in your further career.
