ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u1	Mrs Farih is not here. Mr Boukili apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u2	Minister, my question dates back some time ago. A Walloon doctor was suspected of falsely registering about 2,000 corona vaccines, which also made the derived Covid Safe Tickets incorrect. The corona vaccines are entered into the central database of Vaccinenet. A doctor needs a national registry number and the lottery number of the vaccine, but in Vaccinenet there is no limit on the number of lottery numbers a doctor can enter. For the record, such a lottery number is not linked to one vaccine or one vial, but to an entire production unit. Dr. Roel Van Giel of the GP Association Domus Medica also stated that the system is not 100 % waterproof. How many other doctors have committed similar crimes? How is that tracked down? In the meantime, have you taken action to avoid such fraud? What solutions have you worked out for this? Have you discussed this with the Länder and the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u3	Mr. Chair, Minister, at the end of the last concertation committee and the presentation of the famous covid barometer that involves the use of the CST as long as we are in red or orange code, the Prime Minister was reassuring in saying that the use of the Covid Safe Ticket would not be maintained one day too much. At the same time, however, the Codeco strengthened the CST by reducing its validity to five months for both vaccination and healing certificates. Indeed, as of 1 March, the CST of all our vaccinated fellow citizens will be automatically deactivated five months after the injection of their second dose, if they have not received their third dose in the meantime. The CST will also be removed five months after the last covid infection. This decision was strongly criticized by some experts, including Yves Coppieters. I quote: "The change in the conditions of validity of the CST leads us to a vaccination obligation. We're gonna force people to take their third dose. Moreover, reducing the validity period of recovery certificates is not correct especially after an omicron wave that will necessarily produce a lot of them." These decisions also raise questions as the reflection on the CST and the future of it, which was promised by the Prime Minister, but also by Commissioner Corona, has never finally taken place. However, this assessment is essential and urgent, as Mr Callens, who is a member of GEMS, said, and who believes that this health pass should be reconsidered, saying that the CST had had less effect than it should have had, compared to other European countries. Minister, can you clarify the government's position on the CST? Does it intend to increase or reduce its use? On what basis has the Codeco decided to reduce the period of validity of the CST to five months? Is there some coordination at European level in this respect? Has the CST at least been assessed as to its impact on contamination, but also as to the population's adherence to vaccination? Is it possible to see the CST reactivated in the event of a further increase in contamination, especially in winter, given the seasonality of the virus? If so, how would this be combined with the opinion of the Council of State that the CST should be a proportionate and temporary tool? This strengthening of the CST leads me to ask you about the vaccine pass. In addition to the Prime Minister's statements that it would be better to bother the virus, not the people, you are nevertheless part of the same strategy adopted by the French President, Emmanuel Macron, namely this famous vaccine pass, i.e. a tool that conditions outings in a bar, a restaurant or a museum with vaccination alone. It is also an option defended by Commissioner Corona. The CST would therefore be further strengthened, by setting aside the negative PCR tests but also the healing certificates, which is strongly criticized by the experts still heard yesterday in the Health Committee. They insisted on immunity acquired through infection. Here's what they said: "It's amazing to ignore some kind of protection acquired after the wave of contamination in the delta and the omicron." It is certain that Commissioner Corona will be heard here in order to be able to compare his position on the vaccine pass with the positions of the various experts who have been heard. However, Minister, I would have liked to hear from you about the problems that this vaccine pass would pose. Do you recognize that erecting such a means of restraint is ultimately a disguised and therefore hypocritical vaccination obligation? What do you answer to the experts who criticize this vaccine pass and even the current CST, in that it would give a false sense of safety, since unfortunately it is known that vaccination does not protect 100% from contamination and, therefore, does not exempt us from respecting other barrier actions? What do you think of the proposal of the president of the Socialist Party to add the vaccination obligation to a vaccination pass, seeing it as a means of monitoring compliance with this possible future compulsory vaccination. Finally, I wonder about the controls on the CST and this future vaccine pass. I called his assessment earlier. However, it is likely that the results of this evaluation will automatically be distorted if they are not respected by everyone. Now, like Mr. De Caluwé alluded to it, whether it is the use of the QR code of a relative, the false bites" that some doctors agree to do for remuneration, the registration of contact details of people who did not come to vaccination, etc., the cases of fraud at the CST explode. Last December, I was already asking you about this to see whether this situation was being assessed and whether there was any knowledge of its practical impact on health security. At the time, I didn't get any answers. That is why I would like to repeat them. Minister, how does the government respond to the various forms of fraud at the CST? Is this phenomenon assessed? Is its impact measured in terms of health security? How are the various sectors now supported in order to be able to carry out the control of the CSTs? Is effective communication carried out in order to empower the citizen by focusing on the concrete consequences of such fraud, both in terms of law enforcement and health, including contamination and hospitalization? What is the specific role of the police in situations of fraud at the CST? Are we aware of the number of minutes that were prepared as a result of fraud at the CST? Finally, does not the updating of the Covid Safe Ticket when taking the third dose into account today provide a good opportunity to strengthen anti-fraud measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u4	It has been decided that the third prick on the Corona Safe Ticket will be mentioned. We are left with the problem of our young people leaving on holiday. I asked you a question about this in plenary last week. In the meantime, have any steps been taken to ensure that young people could leave the CST on vacation even without that third shot? Doctors have been reported to have fraudulently contributed to obtaining a CST. Apparently, CSTs are also being sold. How's the investigation coming? What are your findings? We've talked a few times about the recovery certificate. You always point out that the repair certificate after an antigen test is not validated at European level and therefore you are not in favour of applying a repair certificate to the CST after a positive antigen test. However, this is the case in the Netherlands. On the one hand, I follow your reasoning that we must apply European uniformity to travel. However, someone who's tested positive in the pharmacy has proof that he's been through corona. I therefore do not understand why the CST in our country is not declared valid with a certificate of recovery. Can you consider that? There's also a huge inconsistency in the whole story. If the pharmacist tests the patient and the test is negative, the patient can collect the negative antigen test for his or her CST via itsme. However, the positive antigen test cannot be retrieved. That is, of course, working with two sizes and two weights, which is very difficult for the patient to accept. That is really something that could be reconsidered. Finally, I have a question about your statements on the vaccination pass. You indicated that you were in favour of the Corona Commissioner's findings. Yesterday and last week we had a number of hearings, which made it very clear that it would be better to put forward transparent legislation. What are your insights into the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u5	Minister, my group has been wary of the Covid Safe Ticket since the beginning, which would lead to polarization and discrimination. What was originally meant to be a travel pass and then reserved for major events became a disguised way of forcing citizens to be vaccinated. However, based on the data provided to us, some experts say that CST did not have a significant influence on the number of doses administered. In France, this had been the case, but the vaccination rate was already higher at the time of the introduction of the pass. Do you think that the CST had an influence on the vaccination rate? Can you prove that? As of March 1st, you will have to have received the booster in order to be able to benefit from a valid CST. Why did you make this decision and, in the end, why do you keep the CST today, given the omicron variant? Indeed, it appears from the hearings that we have had over the last two days that the effectiveness of the vaccine against the omicron variant is still strongly questioned, in the sense that being vaccinated does not prevent being contaminant at all. Therefore, why did you decide to maintain the CST until today? I have another question a little more specific. The rules for the number of quarantine days after a positive test have been amended recently. At first, it was ten days; today is only seven days. After seven days, we can go to work and get out of the isolation after a positive test. Some caution is suggested until the tenth day. On the other hand, the data subject's CST will become red from the moment it is positive and will only become green again from the twelfth day following the day of the test. This means that this person remains blocked and cannot go, for example, to the theatre. She can therefore go to work, but not to the theatre, the cinema or the restaurant. Minister, can you tell me why it takes so many days to get access to his CST? Is an adaptation envisaged, given that the number of days a contaminated person must be isolated has been reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you at length about our testing capabilities, their need, the variety of tests to be planned and their accessibility, particularly in the context of cooperation with official pharmacists. The rules have been changing steadily for months. It is necessary to adapt, taking into account the knowledge and analysis of scientists and experts, but also, of course, according to the evolution of the pandemic, the variations, their degree of contagivity and dangerousness. In this context, regulations on quarantine and isolation have evolved and no longer require as many tests, or the conduct of a PCR test, but they incorporate, on the other hand, antigenic tests and self-tests. The recovery certificate after contracting covid-19 is currently issued only if a negative PCR test result is communicated. On the other hand, since January 19, it appears that the RAG recommends that a positive autotest no longer be confirmed by a PCR test. Minister, what specific instructions are given to tracing managers in the tests to be performed when the virus has been contracted? Is it true that tracing can require people who have had covid-19 to be tested in a pharmacy using an antigenic test in order to comply with the rules in force and thus be able to resume a more normal social life, especially when not vaccinated? Finally, considering these guidelines, have you received any recommendations to recognize antigenic tests as valid tests to receive a recovery certificate and to allow for the granting of a valid CST?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u7	Mr Minister, during the discussion of the cooperation agreement in this committee you replied to one of my questions concerning the CST that people's vaccination status is based on the second injection and that would remain so. In other words, people would remain considered fully vaccinated, regardless of whether or not they received their booster shot. One of my questions was whether you stick to that position, but we already know the answer to that. In the meantime, there are already several booster shots. Will you therefore maintain that position consistently? How many shots will someone need to have a valid CST? Another question I had prepared was what status people will get who did not receive their booster shot or did not receive it in time, but that question too has now become obsolete. It may be interesting to know whether your decision will also apply to the next shots. In the context of hearings which may be held in our committee on the usefulness or necessity of the CST, would I like to know what the conditions are for the disposal of the CST?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u8	Mr Minister, the first group of questions concerns whether the CST is still useful and relevant today, given the epidemiological data, the fact that a triple vaccine can be contaminant, the evolution of Omicron, the decision of governments, including yours, to no longer test or isolate high-risk contacts, and given its limited impact as a stimulant for vaccination in Belgium. The question is very clear. Was the Codeco's decision to evaluate the CST organized? We have seen that the discussion on this subject in the Health Committee was particularly nebulous this morning for the parties of the majority. The second question concerns the screw trick that you have decided within the framework of the Codeco. You changed the conditions over the validity period after a recovery certificate and reduced the validity period to 150 days after the booster. On what scientific basis did you make this decision and how do you justify it? With regard to the recovery certificate, more and more people have been infected with Omicron. In addition, you still do not accept taking into account the antigenic test when there is no sense in having it confirmed by a PCR test when it is positive. A fortiori, it is not appropriate to vaccinate in the weeks following covid contamination. For young people aged 20 to 30, the majority of whom have been or will be affected by Omicron, it is not logical to impose this booster dose after 150 days. How do you justify this decision? In most European countries, the deadline is nine months. Except in France, where it is seven months old, few countries have decided to reduce it. I therefore confess that, from a scientific point of view, I do not understand this decision which raises a real question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u9	I would like to make a distinction between the different questions. Firstly, I am asked about the transition from the current CST to a vaccination certificate. Secondly, I am asked about the role that the CST is now playing. Thirdly, there are specific questions about, among other things, fraud and the certificate of recovery. I have already spoken on the first aspect in public debates and in a personal capacity. In the committee, in which I represent the government, I will not dwell on this for long. We are looking forward to Parliament's opinion. Together with the Consultative Committee, I invited Parliament to hold a thorough debate on the vaccination requirement and the vaccination certificate. So I look forward to a clear and clear position from Parliament. I find it strange that as a minister I should now say what I think. I will do that one day, but first I would like to see Parliament's position clear after the hearings. I fully believe in the current CST with three dimensions, namely recovery, a negative test or a vaccination certificate. What does it mean that someone's CST turns red when it's scanned at the entrance of a cafe? One cannot enter that cafe if one is checked for it. That means two things. Firstly, he or she has not been vaccinated, he or she is not in possession of a negative test and certainly has no immunity based on the disease's previous experience. It is clear that the risk involved, both to be infected and to infect others as well as to become infected, possibly to become quite ill and possibly to enter a hospital, is greater when the screen is red than when it is green. Because the risk is greater, we decide that it is better that the person concerned does not go to the café. The second possibility is that the person concerned was vaccinated, but did not take a positive test that long ago. In that case, his or her screen will display red for 11 days. Those 11 days are more than what we've recorded today about isolation and more than what we've documented today for a number of people about quarantine. I'll get back to you on that. This prevents people who have recently been infected and may still be contagious from entering a cafe and infecting others. Is that useful in a society where so much virus goes around? That's absolutely what it is. I challenge everyone to claim that the difference between a red and a green screen means nothing. After all, that means absolutely something. Is that enough in itself to decide that we are completely safe? That is certainly not the case. Many debates on the CST, including in scientific circles, are related to this. However, I would like the political debate on the CST to finally take place, as we do on any form of risk management. Think of road safety: if someone said that it was enough for him or her to be able to drive 200 km/h, by driving the red light, not having a driving licence and driving without tires that were in order, we would find that crazy. There is also a seat belt requirement, the brakes must be in order, the tyre pressure at a certain level, there must be a stop for red, a driving licence is required. These are all measures that together contribute to increased road safety. Road safety is not absolute, as is evident from the large number of road deaths that we regret. Is there anyone who is here to ask Parliament to abolish the driving licence right away, since there are still road accidents? Nevertheless, I hear arguments, not directly in this sitting, but this morning in Home Affairs, which follow this logic and suggest that someone has gotten sick despite vaccination. I urge you to stop that kind of argument. My reply is that last week people left their lives on the road, and yet they do not call for the compulsory seat belt and driving licence to be removed immediately, and for tyre pressure and the braking system to cease to conform. That's not a good argument. A correct approach to the debate is what package of measures ensures that in a society where there is still a lot of virus there is less risk of infecting others, or getting seriously ill after infection. The CST clearly belongs in that package. The CST plays a useful role in the whole of measures when there is still a lot of virus circulating. I am firmly convinced of this, and with me the Consultative Committee and all the governments that sit on the Conciliation Committee. Of course, measures must be kept under constant review. Clarity is needed with regard to the barometer and the roadmap. The roadmap is a plan for safe easing. In that roadmap it is agreed that the CST will be used in code red and code orange, and then expires. It is my firm hope that we will be able to move fairly quickly to code orange and soon afterwards to code yellow. Since I don't have a glass ball, that's a lot and by no means a prediction. In any case, I would urge you to hold on to the barometer. We have assured the citizens that we want to give them a grip. Now, inciting a debate to dismantle the barometer, I don't think it would be wise, I wouldn't do that. Let us use the barometer as it is now set up. The CST is in there as one of the many instruments in code red and code orange, and I think we should continue to use that. If there is another situation, described as code yellow, the CST is no longer necessary and we must put it away as soon as possible, as the Prime Minister said. Supporting the usefulness of the CST is also precisely in the observation that, unfortunately, in a number of places, different by region, city, age group and social group, quite a lot of people still haven't gotten their booster shot. Those people aren't so well protected from the omikron variant. For this reason, we want, in principle, to be somewhat dependent on the pace of the legislative process as from 1 March, because democratic approval must be given to a legal cooperation agreement in which people must either be boosted or have had their basic vaccination rather recently, not more than five months ago, or have to provide evidence of infection, not more than five months ago but at least eleven days old. For the basic vaccination, the limit is five months, because we know that the strength of the basic vaccination programme against omikron decreases considerably after four months, which means that the booster is really needed. The reduction for the recovery certificate applies because there is reasonable doubt as to what an old recovery certificate still means in a context in which omikron is the enemy. They are repair certificates based on the delta variant, but they do not protect against omikron. That is why we are shortening this period, not very strongly, but somewhat. To keep it simple, we also opt for five months, with which we follow scientific advice. We base ourselves here on what the experts say, but of course it is a political decision and we are not hiding behind the experts. I think that this kind of discussion shows exactly how useful it is for the CST to distinguish between those who are boosted and those who are not. From the beginning of March onwards, we want to make that distinction, because those who are boosted are less likely to be infected, less likely to infect others and, above all, less likely to become ill. Mrs Merckx asked why one can go to work when one has been in isolation for seven days, but cannot go to a café or a cultural event, which is prevented by the CST. That is perfectly defendable. Work is absolutely necessary for many people and is also important for society. People can be asked not to have a contact at the café when there is still a risk of being contagious, as people can be asked to stay away from large public events. One can go to work, because we dare to assume that this is more necessary. That is not a negative opinion about going to a café or a cultural event, but it is a reflection of what is most urgent that people should be able to do again. Working is more urgent than being able to go to a café, no matter how important it is to go to a café. For the cafe we use the CST, which turns red for eleven days after a positive test. That is the period in which one can still be contagious. We'll make that distinction. That is a matter of safety considerations. The CST is a security tool for society and for the people concerned. That will remain the case, but if there is less virus circulating, it will become less relevant. The criticism of the CST, also from many experts, is that the CST is associated with 'now you can do your way because you are completely safe. You are wearing a seat belt and you are allowed to drive 200 km per hour', but in fact these experts want to say that we decided too quickly in September to abolish the duty to mask the mouth. They say that we have not emphasised enough that people, apart from vaccination, also had to observe other forms of caution and that through the CST we have created a false sense of safety. That's the story. The story of these experts is that our package was not complete, that the danger was not gone with the CST, but that there was still something missing in our arsenal, such as mouth masks and other measures. I think that this debate is a different debate from the debate on vaccination certificates in principle. I am very curious about the clear position Parliament will take on this issue. I am really looking forward to that, and I think that is important from a democratic point of view. I will not anticipate this as a member of the government, but I think we should continue to follow our barometer. Then I would like to address the question of why we should not also use a rapid antigen test in support of a recovery. According to Regulation (EC) No 2021/953 of 14 June 2021 on a framework for the issue, verification and acceptance of interoperable COVID-19 vaccination, test and recovery certificates, a recovery certificate should not be issued earlier than 11 days after the date on which the person concerned first undergone a NATE test such as a PCR test, which indicated a positive result. And, says the regulation, the recovery certificate must not be valid for more than 180 days. The recovery certificate cannot therefore be issued on another basis, e.g. a serological test or a positive rapid antigen test. We are applying the European regulation here. If that regulation were to allow the granting of a certificate of recovery on the basis of other observations, we would implement it immediately. I would like to repeat what I said earlier: having recovered from a delta infection does not necessarily give immunity against a re-infection with omikron. So we need to think carefully about how long we will continue to work with such certificates in the distant future. That is exactly the debate: are we going to stay with the current multidimensional CST or are we going to go to a more one-dimensional vaccination certificate? I would also like to stress that a positive rapid antigen test at a pharmacist means that someone is infected. So that person must go into isolation and the contact tracing must be started. That result shall be recorded, with a temporary suspension of any vaccination certificates available to that person. If that person is unable to work due to symptoms, he will have to call on the general practitioner for a medical certificate of incapacity for work to justify guaranteed pay. If this is not the case, he may rely on a quarantine certificate which can be generated immediately through the application. Mrs Taquin, you asked what instructions are given regarding the tracing questionnaires. When someone has contracted the virus – a person with a positive result of an AG or PCR test administered by a healthcare professional – they must not be retested, but must respect a isolation that they can leave after seven days, provided they have not had a fever for at least three days, and provided that the symptoms have also improved clinically. The isolation is followed by a period of extreme prudence of three days, with among other things the continuous wearing of a mask when you are in interior spaces with other people. Then, for a period of five months, these people should be tested only in case of evocative symptoms. What is the tracing going to ask people? Tracing will require high-risk contacts to take quarantine and testing measures depending on the situation they are in – vaccination status, previous infection. As indicated, contact with a documented infection within a period of less than five months will be considered fully immunized and should not be quarantined or tested when there are no symptoms. Mr De Caluwe and Mrs Rohonyi asked questions about fraud. Let me go into that in more detail. There are general principles within Vaccinenet that relate to the deontology of a doctor. To register correctly, only doctors can apply for access to Vaccine Network. Also for vaccination entities, there is always a link in Vaccinenet with a responsible doctor. This doctor can add staff, but this always happens under his or her responsibility. In addition, there is the vaccine network user agreement that every user must sign before they can use Vaccinenet. More specifically, I stress that each state is responsible for the access management, in particular the approval of vaccineers and employees, and for the control of the registrations by their vaccines. In general, data analysis is used for monitoring as far as possible, allowing the detection of anomalies. Based on the findings of the existing data analysis controls, the controls are continuously refined, for example according to the geographical distribution of vaccinees compared to the doctor's location. So that's something one can control. In principle, the Länder also contact each other if anomalies are detected with citizens from other Länder. Mr De Caluwe, in the QR code of each certificate, a digital character key is encoded from the country issuing the certificate. It is CovidScanBE that will initially check if a QR code was drawn correctly when scanning a CST. This means that fake QR codes, issued with an unprecedented or missing signature, will immediately turn red when scanning. Purchasing certificates via fraudulent websites will thus lead to a red CST because of the lack of the right digital key. This applies both to certificates offered digitally via the CovidScanBE app and to printed certificates. The digital key with which the QR codes are drawn is also renewed every six months. The CovidScanBE app also displays the certificates in an official format. Around the QR code is a moving watermark. This allows visual validation when scanning whether a screenshot of another person's QR code is displayed. In addition, Belgium has developed a system with a suspension list, allowing individual certificates to be suspended in the event of fraud. As a result, the CST will immediately color red when submitting a suspended certificate. For example, a few thousand certificates from one fraudulent doctor from Wallonia have been suspended so far, as well as ten certificates issued by other countries for which fraud has been detected. Other cases of fraud have not been reported to date. Furthermore, in the event of the loss of their certificate, citizens may request the suspension of the lost certificate and request a new copy via a call to one of the three regional call centres. Again, these suspended certificates will scan red. In addition, citizens were also informed about the personal nature of a certificate with previous press releases. They were encouraged not to share and keep it carefully. They were also informed about the possibility of suspending the certificates. In addition, certificates are linked to INSZ numbers in Belgium and can only be retrieved through the various government portals and the CovidScanBE app, through strong authentication, i.e. itsme, eID and other FAS authentication tools. This ensures that the certificates are made available to the right person in a safe manner. In addition, an application for a certificate is sent by post only to the known residence address from the National Register. Since the certificate can only be delivered to the officially known address of the certificate holder, the use of false delivery addresses is excluded. If a European decision is applied, the primary vaccination certificates over nine months of age will expire on 1 February. This means that only the newly issued booster certificates will generate a valid CST, which will automatically lead to the renewal of the certificates. A transitional period is provided for 12 to 17-year-olds, until they can also receive booster vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u10	Minister, I find it particularly charming that Parliament is finally being heard. Actually, it's almost heartwarming when I hear you so busy. When important debates had to be held on curfew and even on access to vaccines, on vaccination contracts and on the measures to be taken for freedom, you did not consider it necessary to consult Parliament for months. However, now that your government's seven-headed dragon does not agree on the further approach, it is up to us. That is of course very charming, but it is a pity that it is only after two years. As far as the vaccination pass is concerned, you have, of course, already spoken out. The government has given as many opinions as it counts parties. In any case, yesterday's hearings gave a very clear signal that the obligation of vaccination is no longer at issue today and that the 1G policy is not correct legislation. We are only halfway through the hearings and we still have a lot to do. It is quite clear that vaccination works very well against serious covid, but also that by obliging them to make the health gains are today, for example, 93 % of vaccinees in Flanders would be very minimal and that the basis for it is far from acceptable. As far as the evaluation of the CST is concerned, the Consultation Committee has also instructed this Parliament. It is clearly not so well understood by the seven parties, because this morning we debated the question of whether we can now effectively proceed to its evaluation in the Committee on Health. That committee should consider the epidemiological usefulness of the CST, but we did not get out this morning. Perhaps you could talk to the Vivaldists again, because that is absolutely very important. You mentioned the CST and the risks involved. You said it gives a false sense of safety and you also reiterated road safety. There are, however, a number of points that need to be made very clearly. First of all, you yourself mentioned that the CST did not emphasise sufficiently communicatively that other measures, such as mouth masks, hygiene and so on, should also be respected. Citizens still expect to be safe when using the CST, that they can go to some kind of activity and no longer have to pay attention. So there is still work to be done on this communication. Secondly, most of the transmissions are still in the home environment. You have given the example that it is more important to go to work than to go to cafés. That's absolutely right. However, many people invite other people. In addition, there is no CST and there is a great deal of chance of transmission when there appears to be another problem. Thirdly, with the whole discussion on the CST there is a problem in terms of acceptance. That is absolutely avoidable. You mentioned that the oral mask measures were omitted in September. However, you forgot to decide on the booster shot, which was really necessary and which would have made a big difference for Omikron. Mr Minister, you point out that the delta recovery certificate will apply and not to omikron. The immunity is indeed not great compared to omikron when someone has had a delta infection. However, if the pharmacist does a positive omicron antigen test or now it appears that a positive antigen test is currently mostly related to omikron, it would only be logical for that test to be seen at the CST. Even if you don't want to use the recovery certificate in March, there's still a few weeks to go. So that is somewhat illogical. You say that a positive test is recorded, but that test does not appear on the CST. So the patient can work much harder. I just can't explain that. The European regulation you are talking about is not being applied by the Netherlands for internal use. It would be much more patient-friendly and consistent, especially with the testing policy you have now and which many doctors believe is insufficient, to include a positive antigen test on the CST. After all, you mentioned it side by side, the burden on the general practitioners is still very great and it is up to us to ensure that it is minimal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the CST is causing a great deal of turmoil. It's a means that we need to be careful about. However, I do not doubt the added value of the CST. That can certainly be useful. But maybe there's bad communication about it. The experts also have many different views and opinions about the usefulness. We also hear this in the hearings on the vaccination obligation. As requested by the Consultative Committee, with all the governments in this country, a debate will take place in Parliament. Contrary to what my colleague has just said, it was not decided this morning not to have that debate, but to have the debate where it belongs best. That is why we asked this morning for the Conference of Presidents to look into this matter. Here's what's troubling me. There are people who want a CST at all costs without being vaccinated. That is why they are consciously infected. They do that by going to contamination parties or even through crazier things, by pushing saliva from an infected person into their own noses. We all know that example. Now that people think that omikron is much less sickening and is actually nothing more than a cold, I hear more and more people hoping to get infected quickly. It's about people who haven't been vaccinated, of course. Furthermore, we also see, as the doctor in Wallonia did, that trade is being set up to help people get a CST without vaccination. I would like to thank you for your explanation of how you deal with these abuses, because I do not think that we can tolerate them and that we need to take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u12	Minister, thank you for your lengthy answers. However, I have the impression that we should thank you for letting Parliament debate such a fundamental issue as vaccination pass or compulsory vaccination, which should go without saying. Moreover, we are not fooled: if this debate is held, it is not out of love for democracy, but because you have been put in difficulty by the inability of your majority partners to agree on this two-pronged issue. In other words, you give us the hot potato. Anyway, we'll take on our responsibilities. Having said that, I regret that only this issue is the subject of parliamentary debate, whereas the House should have had the freedom to debate all health measures - which the Pandemia Act ultimately prevents us from doing. That things are very clear, it is true that my party had initially supported this CST, because it was then a tool that would allow us to continue to live, while avoiding the congestion of hospitals and a further closure of sectors. Nevertheless, this support was conditional. First of all, the CST had to be proportionate and temporary – a criterion on which the Council of State rightly insisted. Then, this device had to be evaluated. What are we witnessing today? The CST will be extended as long as we're not in yellow code, as you just confirmed. In addition, this choice was formed unilaterally by your government, without taking into account the opinion of the experts, but also the huge wave of contamination caused by the Omicron variant. I hear you believe in the utility of the CST, but it's not enough to believe it. It must be objected to again! This is essential for respectful adherence to this measure. I would therefore like to reiterate my requests in this regard. First of all, it is important that an objective evaluation of the CST be carried out in terms of health efficiency, as well as respect for human rights. This has, moreover, been planned by the Brussels Region, but this evaluation must be able to benefit the whole country. In addition, it must take into account persons who do not have a CST, but who continue to have a social life next door, for example by going to clandestine festivals without any respect for the gestures of barriers. There are some every day – I invite you to visit the social networks. Even yesterday, at his hearing, Mr Marius Gilbert recalled that this reality had been completely obscured by the Codeco. Similarly, the majority of contamination sites are precisely those that are exempt from the CST's obligation. I am thinking of the family sphere, the workplace or public transport. My second request is to obtain an opinion from the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority on any measure aimed at strengthening the CST, either by reducing the validity of the healing certificates or by removing them, as would a vaccination pass. As Mr Gilbert said yesterday, the best immunity today would be vaccination followed by infection, because the vaccine and infection stimulate different types of immunity. Therefore, these different types of immunity can complement each other. It is this work which, in our view, would enable us to decide the question of the future of the CST in full knowledge of the matter, as was decided, just a few days ago, by Catalonia. The Commission has decided to abandon the use of the health pass, precisely because "a part of the population is again likely to be infected with the virus because of the omicron variant, regardless of its vaccination status or the fact that it has already contracted the disease, so that the effectiveness of the compulsory use of the Covid certificate does not cease to decrease". Therefore, as regards the reasons underlying the five-month validity period for the healing certificate, you justify it once again not by objective data but by a doubt, namely that of the immunity which will be acquired following contamination of the omicron variant. In other words, one might very well imagine that the duration of the CST may still fluctuate depending on the variants and their virulence. This alone shows how unreliable the CST without objective evaluation is. Finally, I wanted to go back to the frauds at the CST. You explain to us, as you have already done, that there is a digital key on each QR-code, which finally allows you to detect false QR-codes directly because they automatically become red. This is very good, but it does not provide any solution to the most common and recurring problem, which is the use of the QR-code of a friend, brother or sister, etc. I think this is really a serious problem that needs to be addressed and that requires a real information and awareness campaign. These frauds not only harm the sectors that depend on this CST so that they can remain open, but also endanger people who think they are going to the restaurant, a bar or the gym safely, when they are not.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u13	Minister, I am quite concerned about the lightness with which you are addressing this debate. We need to get back into the context. With this CST, we restrict the fundamental right of citizens to move wherever they want. And it's never before seen! In the beginning, the CST was justified by saying that in this way, we would emerge from the crisis. At the PTB, we warned from the start that we did not believe it. But you said that this would make it easier for us to get out of the crisis. That was the point. We were going to do something very serious, restrict fundamental freedoms, but we were going out of the crisis. And this promise has not been kept at all. Now, you come to tell us that the CST still reduces the risk a little bit, and so that's good. No! The question must be asked: is this still proportionate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u14	Mrs Merckx, I've heard you say so many things that you're against. You have already argued in favour of reopening the cafés when they were subject to further restrictions. We were not allowed to impose restrictions on the cafes, the CST should not be asked, oral masking for children was not allowed. You are against every piece of protection we propose. You don't really want anything, except some cheap talk about people living healthier. I totally agree with that, but that doesn't help us if we get mugged by a pandemic. Would you like to have the courage to say what we should do, not just something, but something credible? Of any individual measure on which there is some discussion, you say you are absolutely opposed, but then there is nothing left. Fortunately, you have nothing to say, because then there would be no policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u15	Minister, your way of conducting the debate is not correct. You can read all my speeches and press releases. With regard to the health measures proposed by the PTB since 10 March 2020, we have called for the engagement of 1,200 prevention workers in the field when the first containment had not yet begun. We pleaded for self-tests, and how many times for a change in tracking and testing system, to support the first line among others... We pleaded for a lot of action to be taken and, with respect to the CST, we expressed our fears. You said that this was the way out of the crisis and that, for that, you would restrict our fundamental freedoms. Today it seems ineffective. What you don't dare to do is at least question what you said at that time. You said vaccination was going to get us out of the crisis and give us the kingdom of freedom. That's not the case! Have the honesty to recognize it and review your strategy towards mandatory vaccination. Again, you focus on vaccination, but you need to consider the other criteria. Today, I disagree when you say that because there is a risk reduction, we will still maintain the CST. No! Is it still proportionate? You don't take side effects into account and I'm not just representing PTB here. These are things that the experts explained to us during the hearings, among other things. CSE polarization is a side effect. These are significant discriminations, a burden on the health care system because of the need to be tested and burdened with the health care system in order to be in order. And you can't tell us if the vaccination rate has increased or not. Risks have not been assessed and unvaccinated individuals meet elsewhere. I do not find it obvious that, on the one hand, you can go to work after seven days, but on the other hand, you cannot go to the restaurant or the cinema. For you, it seems obvious but I know a lot of people who tell me that they can contaminate their colleagues, die at work or make others die - that's how people express themselves - but that they can't go to the coffee shop, or to the restaurant or go to a play perhaps reserved for six months and that they are so eager to see after these periods of isolation. For me, the same rule must be applied everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u16	Minister, thank you for the answers you have just given. I would like to share a feeling with you. I appreciate participating in the effort to try to get us out of this period that is extremely difficult for everyone. When I am in the Health Committee or on the ground in Courcelles as a mayor, I no longer feel political, because the problem is the same for everyone. Our citizens suffer, regardless of the area in which they suffer, regardless of their age. I will therefore always be ready to participate in finding the most acceptable solutions possible, so that our citizens will suffer as little as possible. Indeed, I can say through my meetings, questioning, behaviour in different sectors, that the citizens are really at a standstill. To hang them up, communication remains essential; I have already said so many times, both to you, Minister, and to the Minister of the Interior in various speeches. I asked you a few questions. I take part in all the debates and I follow this closely. I confess I didn't understand all the answers. Why? Because it's getting more and more complex. If we are already struggling to find ourselves there – and we must have the honesty to say so – how can we get the right messages out to the public? When we see certain rules that we respect as mayors, I still regret today, and all this time that has passed, that we have not conducted an investigation. It's an idea I'm launching. We could have started a survey of the mayors. I'm sorry we didn't get them, didn't hear them. Because we are really at the heart of this crisis and at the heart of the problems that are being experienced. Whatever our political colour, we all live the same things, with a population of all ages, of all configurations. We all know the problems. There is a real need to improve communication, and to schematize the use of tests, because people don't understand anything about it anymore. Even yesterday, I had to reassure my own 17 and 18-year-olds that for me, too, it is heavy, but that we must make a collective effort and move forward together. I have not been able to answer their question so much I find it unfair, even though I know that some decisions are made at other levels of authority. How can we explain to two children of the same family who have been vaccinated, each of whom is entitled to the booster, that the 17-year-old is not entitled to it and that he will therefore be deprived of certain activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u17	Mrs. Taquin, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u18	Mr President, when members of your group have the floor, you let them speak! Let me finish!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u19	Mrs. Taquin, please! Ms. Merckx had four minutes and she did not use them. On the other hand, you had two minutes and you're four!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u20	Mr President, do you think what I'm saying is not interesting?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u21	I didn't say that! I'm trying to be honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u22	I don't do press releases to make wind and go get an electorate...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u23	This has nothing to do with it! I'm asking you to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u24	Minister, what can we answer to this 17-year-old who has followed his entire vaccination scheme and who is not entitled to the booster? The question is not simple. I know that the experts also recommend certain things but there are many injustices through this crisis. Our work for all, regardless of our political background, is to minimize these injustices and to work on equal opportunities by balancing them with risks. The primary role of everyone is to protect their neighbor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u25	As a reminder, you have two minutes for the question and two minutes for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u26	Mr. President, I know. This compensates for all the minutes I have not used in other debates in which many people have often spoken so as not to say anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u27	Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Taquin that for those under the age of 18, the validity of the CST is maintained with two doses of vaccine, thus without booster. Minister, if what I'm saying is wrong, cut me off.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u28	I'm not here to pass a check or a query. The situation in Belgium may not necessarily be the same elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u29	I'm answering for those under 18, because it's an important element. Mr President, I now start my question. Minister, at the press conference following the Codeco, I heard the Prime Minister say that after the hearings on the vaccination obligation, the Codeco would take over. We will see if there is not a small game of "participatory majority" and if there is a real possibility of making recommendations at Parliament level, what I hope will happen. Mr Minister, you have a speech on the CST which is very theoretical and, in my view, rather simplistic, and which sets aside the inconsistencies. Consider, for example, the comparison with the seat belt. What is the government doing? The government has decided, for high-risk contacts, which are known to be most likely to be positive, that they should not isolate themselves or test themselves using the PCR. They are the people who are most likely to be positive, and you remove a seat belt from them yourself. Let us recognize that, in paradoxes and inconsistencies, this is a real problem. Can the CST be one of the useful weapons in the arsenal to combat an epidemic or pandemic? I think so. But the big question is whether it is still useful today, given the evolution of scientific data, given the epidemiological evolution, given our vaccination rate, given the characteristics of the omicron variant and with the conditions of validity, on which you have given an important screw trick and which you have just changed, the effectiveness being now limited to five months for the disease certificate and for the vaccine. You are and you remain in a rigid pattern. I would really like you to take into account now the epidemiological and scientific evolution, and to adapt your scheme to this evolution. For me, on the one hand, the question of the current usefulness must be examined and, on the other hand, the decision of these famous five months of post-vaccine validity or recovery certificate must be reviewed. Look a little bit: you can't get boosted for four months. Then you are announced that after five months, you will no longer be entitled to your CST. In the meantime, the majority of these people are likely to have been infected with omicron. I am thinking in particular of young adults. Developments should be considered very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u30	Minister, there are Catholic church men who can learn something from you, a socialist. It is not the first time that you have given me an answer and a few months later you say exactly the opposite, or claim something that is not in line with what you said earlier. For example, I recall that you stated in this committee that everything would remain based on the second shot. We are now a few months away and you are putting the opposite into practice. In your reply you also come up with an amazing explanation, Minister, in particular that you want to wait for Parliament's response to the CST. It may be the first time, but I welcome the fact that you have found your way to Parliament and appreciate our opinion. Perhaps you should also explain that position to the members of the majority parties in our committee? This morning they did not really know about this. As far as your comparison with the seat belt is concerned, I think it would be more appropriate to consider the CST as an old maintenance invoice to show that the brakes of a car are still in order today. Possibly, possibly not, impossible to know. The fact is that there is no scientific basis for the CST. It doesn't work and doesn't provide more security, on the contrary. In practice, the Covid Safe Ticket is nothing more or less than a polarizing and discriminatory Covid Unsafe Ticket. Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna blow off your pitches in advance. We are not opposed to all measures, but we are only in favour of good measures. For example, we are for vaccination, for working at home, for testing and that's more, but against the CST.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u31	Minister, at the committee meeting of 21 September last year, you fixed a date, particularly at the end of January. We know that it is not easy on the French-speaking side to find a solution to the problem of medical quotas. It's been like that for decades. However, you said that an agreement on the control mechanism should be concluded by the end of January. The only thing we know is that, in the meantime, very late talks have started with Community Minister Glatigny and that motions for a conflict of interest have been tabled in the Walloon Parliament and in the French Parliament, but we have not yet seen the response mechanism in the coalition agreement, which you said in September, was ready in case there was no agreement by 1 February. Last week you came no further than the answer that is now being intensively discussed with the French Community and that you hope to reach an agreement on this, but I still have a few specific questions. How are you doing with the federal planning agency you're planning to set up? Are you still convinced it's a good idea? The deadline is over. That deadline was yesterday. How long will you delay this? What does a deadline mean to you? How much time do you give to reach an agreement on a control mechanism? How do you see the chances of success of an agreement, given that you stated last week that we are now negotiating? Finally, will you, as you yourself have proposed, today, 1 February, remove your plans on the federal response mechanism, as no agreement has been reached until today? I'm very curious to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u32	Minister, I cannot always follow the opinion of my right-wing colleagues in the dossier. It is an old Community dispute, but something that was decided 20 years ago is not always a smart decision today. One municipality in the two in Wallonia and three municipalities in the four in Flanders have a shortage of general practitioners. So the question is whether limiting the RIZIV numbers is still current. This year we have seen the struggle of young doctors-specialists for better working conditions. I therefore wonder how we will solve the problem without a larger influx of doctors. I really do not understand the ideological position of the colleagues on the right. They can't change their minds. Minister, you, too, seem to want to see more stringent treatment of medical quotas. The various provisions include a section of legislation that has effectively made Francophone students react because it could largely threaten the granting of INAMI numbers and further restrict access to studies. Given the covid crisis and all that we've been through over the last two years, and even before, I don't understand what you're arguing for. You finally follow the colleagues on the right. Minister, my questions are as follows. What guarantees do you have that the current medical students will receive a RIZIV number after obtaining their diploma? How are the talks with the Communities going? Will you end the quota? Will the reform of hospital funding also bring performance medicine to an end? What about the land register of the planning committee? How will you ensure that this takes due account of needs in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u33	Mr President, Minister, you know that this is a matter on which I am very much involved. For weeks, I have been fighting the famous clause 69 of your bill. You resolve your political disagreement between ministers, between levels of power on the backs of future young doctors and dentists who, once graduated, could not exercise because they were not "limited" by the French Community. For me, the principle must be that a young doctor or a young dentist who is a graduate must be able to get his INAMI number if he wants to invest in a curative field. For me, it is a matter of respect for our young people. In fact, we need it singularly. Some recalled that there were conflicts of interest. I have repeatedly suggested, as soon as your project has arrived, that this article be put on hold and not voted on for the time you were discussing with the Communities and that you reach an agreement, a political agreement and not an agreement on the backs of young people. You didn't want it. Your government majority voted this article twice and validated it to the government twice. With other colleagues, I sent him to the Council of State. Discussions now seem to be moving forward between the federal government and the Communities. What is the status of the discussions on this subject? For the past year, how many times has this topic been discussed either in the Inter-Ministerial Conference or in another framework of discussion and negotiation, possibly directly between ministers, or even in a bilateral exchange or with all the entities concerned. I would like to have a precise timetable for these discussions and to know what points have been agreed between the federal government and the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u34	Mrs Rohonyi, you have the floor for both of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u35	Mr President, this is in fact a single question, which I had to update following the latest developments in this matter. Mr Minister, with the health crisis, as we have seen, Belgium is facing a shortage of doctors that affects the whole country and is aggravated by the ageing of the population, which increases our need for hospitalization and medical care. Despite this reality, your Government, and especially your policy note, has chosen to strengthen the INAMI quota system by providing "an accountability mechanism". You also stated that if this accountability mechanism were not to emerge before 31 January 2022 (i.e. yesterday), a quota certification system would be approved at the federal level. That is what is provided for in your bill, which therefore contains a section on INAMI quotas. In doing so, you laid the foundation for a false negotiation. You have created the basis for an instrument of pressure on the Communities, but of course also on future doctors. What is all the more important is that the basis of this negotiation was not sound. It comes to my mind that Minister Glatigny would have been given a mandate to negotiate that the week of 3 January, so that the Communities would have had only less than a month to find this important solution in conjunction with the federal level. In this respect, it is true that my colleague Mrs Van Peel asked you on 27 January last in plenary. You have had the opportunity to confirm your preference for an inter-federal agreement, despite everything, stating that you are leading an "intensive concertation" with the French Community in order to reach an agreement. Except that today is 1 February, and it must be noted that this agreement has not yet been reached. Minister, did Minister Glatigny actually receive a mandate to negotiate at the federal level a little less than four weeks ago? When exactly? Why was the mandate granted so late? Confirm the Minister's statement to the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation that the Ecolo party initially refused it. Would that not justify delaying the deadline of January 31, 2022? Could you provide us with information on these consultations, which you consider to be "intensive"? When exactly did they start? What are the guidelines? We also know that three of your majority partners rejected in the Walloon Parliament this morning the conflict-of-interest procedure proposed by the CDH, believing that "it was premature" and that "it was necessary to give its chance to negotiation", because it had to continue. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether you are prepared to suspend consideration of this bill, for which we have just received the advice of the Council of State, even if only for the time that these negotiations are concluded, since it seems that this is the objective. Finally, how is national demography taken into account in the decision to maintain these quotas and establish a federal quota mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that there are still discussions on how we can best adapt the medical offer to the needs. First of all, I would like to stress why this objective is so important. It is actually a question of ensuring that the supply of doctors allows care to be provided to those in need of care, with a high level of quality and a suitable number of doctors. The same applies, of course, to dentists and dentistry. Once again, I would like to stress that it has to do with objectives relating to the quality of training, the quality of the medical profession itself and also the quality of care. I agree with the statement that the supply should not only be sufficiently large for the whole of a region, but that health policy in the regions should also ensure that doctors are well spread across the regions. There should be no acute deficit areas where there may be too much concentration elsewhere. That is also an important issue. Important levers are in the regions, but to the extent that we can contribute at federal level to supporting doctors in their location in rural areas, we would, of course, like to do so. I agree that this, too, is an aspect of the whole discussion about the supply of doctors and how it is best organised. I think we really need to find an agreement between the federal government and the Communities that allows the organisation of adequate planning of the medical offer. It must also ensure that there is trust between the Communities and between the Communities and the federal authorities in how this is done. The underlying figures and the analysis work should be achieved with a great deal of mutual consultation, also on the basis of refined analysis of needs and bottlenecks. That is why we want to establish an inter-federal body. In addition, legal certainty is important for young people who wish to start or have already started these studies. I think we can agree on those elements. I will not go into more detail on the state of the negotiations. It is indeed February 2022 and I therefore hope that we will soon be able to conclude the consultations. After all, we had planned to be round by the end of January 2022. It's gonna stay that way. Of course, I cannot answer questions about mandates of one fellow minister in another government at another level of competence. I have no answer to that. I hope, however, that we will agree on an issue which has been going on for 20 years. I will also repeat that I believe that it is best to find an agreement on this that ensures mutual trust in the underlying analyses, in the figures, in the objectivity of the figures and in the way in which the offer is controlled. I also believe that the best way of controlling supply is at the beginning of the studies. I would therefore like to reiterate that the debate we have had on the draft various provisions for health care is a debate on the legal basis for something I consider sub-optimal and avoid. I would like to stress once again that the legal analysis of the text before us states that the text is not self-fulfilling. The implementation of the text requires a royal decision, which has been discussed in the Council of Ministers. If we take that step, I would certainly like to discuss this in the Council of Ministers. That goes without saying. We have often had this debate when it comes to the draft. I have indicated this a number of times, but I would like to confirm it once again. However, I am hopeful that we will be able to conclude the consultations in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u37	Minister, you seem to have good hopes in discussions that have been going on for 25 years, but which are now suddenly coming to fruition. So what you said four months ago was just a laugh or a tough act. You will not set a new deadline and also made it clear that if your statements from four months ago were ever to come to fruition, they would have to be approved by the Council of Ministers first. Your French-speaking colleagues will not approve of this as a matter of urgency, as they have said. You are the umpteenth Minister of Health who is laughed at by the French-speaking partners and who will continue to cooperate consistently in this skeptical situation which has existed for decades and for which Flanders pays the price. Congratulations for that, and a lot of good hope for the credibility of citizens in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u38	Minister, thank you for recognizing that the shortage of doctors is affecting the entire country. I hear Mrs Van Peel communautarising this debate again. It would have been good if she had attended the hearings that we had in the special committee covid-19, in which the doctors insisted that a big problem affects the whole country, having a direct impact on the caregivers, who work in disastrous conditions, but also on the patients, who have to face extremely long waiting times to get a medical appointment, which exposes them to an increased risk of medical complications, hospitalization and incapacity to work. I find it amazing that the N-VA, for purely community reasons, is concealing this reality. Secondly, Mr.Minister, I understand that there is an ongoing dialogue. There is a great blur around the state of this consultation and I thank you, however, for recognizing that it is under way to determine how best to align the medical supply with the needs. That is really the objective that any democratic party should pursue. However, I do not understand what is happening to the deadline you announced, that is January 31. If you really want, as you have said, to achieve mutual trust and a proper working environment between the Communities and the federal government, we must postpone this date to allow the negotiations to succeed. In general, you have placed a great deal of emphasis on the quality of training to justify the INAMI quotas and their strengthening. I therefore allow myself, in the course of the ongoing negotiations, to convey to you concerns that come from the field, in particular from the medical students I have had the opportunity to meet in recent weeks. They are very concerned about your bill and told me that it would be appropriate to improve the conditions of the internship rather than to break vocations as such a mechanism of accountability would do. Still, it is necessary to see what form will ultimately be retained. So I really invite you to meet with the current assistants who say that it is the workload that is impacting them today and is a problem for them, not the number of trainees. For the rest, one can really think about a better spread of the supply of doctors through geographical planning, i.e. a system where one would decide, for example, to have so many doctors for as many inhabitants but certainly not as we have done for too many years, limiting the number of doctors for all regions regardless of the needs. We're doing it right for pharmacists. Why don't we do it for the doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u39	Minister, you gave a lot of explanations about the objective and you may not like to hear it, but we are in complete agreement on that objective. We agree on what you say about the supply, the quality, the lack of legal certainty among students to be dealt with, but that was not my question. Mrs Rohonyi, it is because for more than 20 years the French speakers have refused to do what the Flemings have done, that there are problems. So it is not us who are communitizing it. Minister, I find it very easy that you do not give any further explanations about the ongoing consultations. All you do is confirm that the consultations are ongoing and express your hopes three times. Hope makes life, but it's not up to a minister to hope for. It's up to a minister to act. We have already known that your words are not worth much, whether they are about discrimination against young people in terms of vaccinations or deadlines you set yourself. That deadline suddenly doesn't count, you don't give a new deadline at all. However, we do expect you to act and at least implement your own coalition agreement and work on that response mechanism. Get it out of your drawer. Keep hoping for an agreement that hasn't been around for 20 years, after all, is a bit like waiting for Godot. The coalition agreement will not apply for that long and I do not want to wait that long for a response mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u40	Mr President, this is an absurd discussion. People from other countries may have to listen to us and see the situation we are in. After two years of crisis, we were able to see that we were desperately short of doctors and hands on the ground. Today we need vocations, people who want to get involved, and not the other way around. I do not explain this to myself, apart from the fact that our country is mired in a Community dispute, knowing that some live only from this. Minister, I can't understand you! You are hoping for an agreement while going to the negotiating table with your Article 87 knife in your hand. In my view, it is not in this way that a solution can be found. In any case, I believe that the only logical solution – I know that I plead here in favour of an inaudible measure for some – would be to relax the conditions for access to medical studies, also in Flanders, to upgrade the profession of general practitioner in order to create vocations and, finally, to change this system of medicine to the provision which is the cause of overconsumption. We need doctors in the field who think about prevention. If the crisis of the covid did not teach us this state of affairs, I do not understand anything! That is my opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u41	Minister, I asked you about the dates of the discussions over the past year, and you did not provide me with a single date. So I have to conclude that nothing has happened in a year. It seems to me first and foremost crucial to respect those who are studying, long-term studies, and therefore to guarantee an INAMI number to any graduate, doctor or dentist, who goes or wants to practice in the curative. So yes, we have to reach an agreement, but I repeat once again how indispensable it is to remove this famous section 69 from your bill with various provisions, because not only the pirouette of the royal decree is not provided for in the law but, in addition, if tomorrow there is a new government, the agreement will no longer hold for a second. In addition, you fully delegate to INAMI the application of the law's publications to the Belgian Monitor. Having quality care and an adequate number of physicians and dentists are important issues. Nevertheless, may I remind you that one in two municipalities is facing a shortage of general practitioners in Wallonia? In Brussels, half of the neighbourhoods are concerned. On the other hand, many patients have to wait several months before they can get a consultation with a specialist. Finally, some agencies with a gable on the street recruit doctors abroad in turn to have them hired by hospitals in Belgium, simply because there are not enough Belgian doctors or who have studied in Belgium and are willing to go to work there. Minister, the situation is still extremely paradoxical. As long as we do not dare to deal with things as a whole, I think we will be wrong not only in terms of debate, but also in terms of a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u42	We are in the current debate, and Mr Bacquelaine is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u43	Mr President, I wanted to tell you that Minister Glatigny has made the choice of consultation. Others make the choice of confrontation and adopt a sort of anti-federal positioning. There is no federalism without consultation between the federal government and the federated entities, and this is obviously the most appropriate topic. I believe that the debate should take into account the objectives pursued, in particular to provide quality care and ensure a good distribution in the country. It is true that there are pockets of shortages in the country, but we must also take into account the capacity of doctors to train in our institutions and universities, which is fundamental. Mr Minister, I welcome the fact that you today reaffirmed what you had said, in response to our request, when we examined the legislation containing various provisions, namely that the legal analyses confirm that the text is not "self-executive" and that it requires for its implementation a royal decree negotiated in the Council of Ministers. We truly advocate effective coordination between the levels of power, with a priority. We consider that students who are in the curriculum, i.e. people who have graduated or are going to obtain their diploma, must be able to actually practise their profession as a doctor or dentist. Without that, it would be a huge waste to train caregivers who could not exercise. We cannot resolve to accept such a situation, know that. This is a priority for us and we will be paying particular attention to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u44	Minister, at last your plan is ready to reform hospital funding. We are pleased that the debate has been opened, because that is what is needed and that is positive. So far we have not been able to find out much about your plan. Some general objectives on the far horizon seem to be positive. In this way you want to reduce the level of salaries between the different specialties. The cash flows that pass through the fees, you want to reduce. You want to reduce the number of inexpensive investigations and you want more transparency. Today, the federal government funding of the hospitals is only 40%. That percentage needs to go up. Minister, I was a little surprised when I read in the press the elements of your plan, because the debate is not limited, of course, to specialists. The funding of hospitals must cover all health professionals. I'm thinking specifically of the other health care staff. Already today, one in four caregivers is considering leaving the sector. It seems to me that this plan contains elements of Mrs De Block, in this logic of profitability. For example, you are talking about reducing the number of maternity wards. Minister, does giving birth really have to be efficient? You are also talking about making more use of day hospitalizations or reducing the number of days in hospital or lump-sum. I receive messages from hospital nurses, and they are concerned that these measures will further increase the pressure on the work of hospital nurses. As far as maternity is concerned, we discussed this two years ago. Vooruit, through your Chief of Staff, a former Member of Parliament, was absolutely against the closure of maternity wards at that time. He said that cost effectiveness cannot be the only measure envisaged. That's my first question. Secondly, hospital beds have been abolished for years. If I understand your note, you're going to do the same. Minister, don't you forget the nurses in your hospital reform? How are you going to do, with what is on the table, not to increase the work and the pressure at work for caregivers outside of doctors? How are you going to change the standards of supervision in hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u45	We have to close, Mrs. Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u46	Are you going to close the maternity wards? I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u47	Minister, I was able to read this note on the reform of the organisation and funding of hospitals. There are a number of findings that are known about the difficulties of current funding and the financial reality of hospitals. A number of issues are addressed: quality, financial accessibility and accessibility to care, including the financial supplement component for patients, more integrated care efficiency for chronic patients, the nomenclature component – most of all we forget about the retrocession of fees since most fees remain in the hands of hospitals and do not go to doctors. But the devil is still in the details and, at this point, I have a number of questions. The networks were first created and now a number of principles are being put forward on the funding side, restrictions on certain services. We are clearly working backwards in this area. Is it healthy? Will there not be an absolute need to take into account the realities of networks rather than impose a set of standards without measuring their impact? You plan several speeds depending on the different aspects of the reform. Immediately, there are restrictions: clinical biology, radios, as well as a third part. All of this will have a strong impact on hospitals. You plan to shut down certain services, including maternity clinics, without measuring the impact on the field. In a second phase, you are planning other arrangements. How do you intend to ensure sufficient funding for hospitals in the meantime, when the arrangements you make directly will greatly reduce their funding? There is therefore a major challenge to be able to implement this reform, that of maintaining the funding of hospitals! There is nothing about nursing personnel, particularly in terms of coaching standards, the attractiveness of nurses and physicians. There is also nothing about taking into account the social specificity of patients. We're even talking about an abusive hospital stay instead of a day hospital. However, it is known that for patients with major social difficulties, they are hospitalized instead of resorting to the day hospital. I think this dimension is completely forgotten. Finally, I would also like to hear from you about the specific nature of university hospitals, which is barely discussed. You're planning an in-depth study. Who is going to carry out this study? At what cost and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u48	Mr Minister, my original question was actually looking at a state of affairs regarding the plan. The plan is now in place and I can therefore bring to the attention of the House a number of specific issues. The plan is vaguer and less calculated than I expected. Well, that'll probably happen. I think that many will agree with me that more needs to be done on day hospitalization. I do wonder how it can be achieved that the changeover will keep pace in all parts of the country. For example, the Zorgstrategic Plan Flanders already provides for the reduction of the number of beds. The funding is also linked to this. How will you ensure that the regions that make the most efforts are also most rewarded, and not the other way around? I further wonder how you want to achieve the concepts of pay for quality and pay for performance. Do you really want to include 2% of the budget as indicated? How exactly will you measure that? Will health insurance funds have to take on a role by responding to their customers and identifying any anomalies? Is there a role for the health insurance funds in this dossier? Regarding the data, there is a general consensus that data, eHealth and telemonitoring are extremely important. However, all this is only mentioned in passing, particularly in the context of the recovery plan when it comes to the financial resources provided for. I regret that it is no longer covered in the various parts of the note and I find that worrying. Do you take into account that more and more will depend on data collection and exchange? With the reward supplements, a large amount of money is immediately lost. The total amount involved in 2019 was over 600 million. A sum to be sought elsewhere. Hospitals depend to a large extent on this. The supplements are, as we know, generally higher in Wallonia and Brussels. How will you ensure that the hospitals that have so far been able to limit their fee supplements will also be rewarded for this and that no tabula rasa is created so that all regions can start again in the same way from scratch? You're also talking about high-level hospitals. How will it be determined which hospitals they will be? I have one final comment, Minister. It is said that there is over-consumption of medical imaging, but the impact on public health is still being looked at most. NMR is also mentioned there at the same time. This is not appropriate in this context, because NMR does not involve ionising radiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u49	Minister, the advantage of the plan is that it is there now and that the debate can start. For me, there are a lot of good things in it. A first question is about the care assignments. There will no longer be a division between A and S, between general and specialized care assignments, without talking about university care assignments, as the networks are very heterogeneous today. How do you see that? You want to do this by means of programming and RIZIV conventions, but then you already come to the area of competence of the regions and the Communities. How will you organise this effectively? Today there was a lot of emotion about the materials. I hope and know that it will be about more than just the materials. It is a pity that the focus is now on this. You are therefore right to speak of close care where possible and concentrated care where necessary. Quality, accessibility, affordability, but also efficiency and efficiency are important here too. With regard to the funding at network level, you will stick to VAT and the services. It's gonna take more than that. If we link the networks more and more to the care tasks, funding must be provided. Where do you want to go in that respect? And above all: who did you consult with? On Friday you saw the federal colleagues, you also saw the sectors and the plan is in the mailbox of the regions. But how do you see the further consultation? The subject was not discussed at IMC level, I understand. As far as networking is concerned, there are many points of contact with the regions. Will this meeting take place? You have a good proposal on the supplements, but I also follow Mrs Gijbels. Today there are huge excesses. Studies showed that last week. Shouldn't we put some sort of upper limit there sooner to ensure that those who are good students today remain so? Hopefully Parliament will also be involved in the debate and we will be able to discuss the various stages with you in greater depth. The committee also has a role to play here. What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u50	Mr. Secretary, yesterday we were able to meet your plan Operation Hospitals, including some deadlines. It is an ambitious and necessary plan to gain control over hospital funding and the organisation behind it, both in the interests of our health expenditure and in the interests of quality and affordable healthcare for patients. Minister, can you give us more details on the timing of all aspects? What methodology will you use to roll out your plan? It is a challenge to achieve concrete results. What progress has been made on the reform of the hospital networks? What role can or will they play in this reform? That question is in line with questions that colleagues have already asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u51	Mr President, I have a supplementary question to my colleagues because this debate is excessively broad and complex. I haven't gotten into that note completely yet. Minister, at this level, I have a question when you talk about introducing funding models that will aim for continuity, coordination and integration of care, especially because of the prevalence of chronic diseases. In the long run, you want to go to pathology care routes. How will you integrate these care trips with the first line? This is the question of integrating hospital reform with the first line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u52	Minister, the plan is ambitious. Personally, I think it is very useful to sum up all the problems of hospital financing. We can't dissect it. On the contrary, we must have a global view of it. We cannot talk about funding hospitals without reforming the nomenclature. We cannot talk about a reform of hospital funding without the place of fee supplements or the distribution of the provision of care. It is clear that everything cannot be done everywhere, and I am pleased that this option is being retained and that the reform of hospital networks initiated under the previous government is being completed. We have an ethical duty to make good use of public money and available budgets for people's health, for the benefit of patients. Minister, there is one point on which I would like to ask a question. In the context of the revision of the nomenclature and in the context of the payment for the package or the act, what place will you give to the intellectual act in medicine? I think that, more than ever, we need practitioners to be able to devote time to the singular colloquium with the patient and to the apprehension of all facets of the patient, when he or she is suffering. Therefore, the revalorisation of the intellectual act is something very important to us. What place do you intend to give him?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u53	Mr President, I will not go into detail here. The note, which has been distributed in the meantime, is quite detailed and it would take a lot of time to repeat it all. I do not want to anticipate any further, because that note is indeed a first step towards the consultation that we want with the actors in the field, especially the Federal Republic of Germany, with my colleagues in the federal government, with Parliament, and with my colleagues in the Länder. Precisely because the note must be the start of a broad and thorough consultation, I had no intention of communicating about it now. As often happens when you make such a note available, it leaks. There is no man overboard, but as you have noticed, I have not yet made any public statement on this, precisely because I want to give the consultation every opportunity and not to prematurely address all kinds of issues. I'm going to say some things that I hope can help you understand where we're going with this. What I want to emphasise is that with this government we are investing in health care and therefore in hospitals. If we look only at the global hospital budget, we see that it evolved from EUR 8.27 billion in 2019 to EUR 9,473 billion in 2021 and over 10 billion in 2022. In other words, there is an increase of almost EUR 2 billion in three years. I am not saying that in order to be euphoric about it, there are still a lot of needs, but to make it clear immediately that what is ahead is absolutely not a saving exercise. I shall come back to this in a moment on the basis of the examples given, such as the rational organization of materials. The objective is absolutely not to save. That's an Indian story we need to get out of the world fast. The objective is to invest more during this legislature and to use the money we invest well. I would like to repeat the four main objectives, as I explained them for the sector. First of all, we may be investing a little too much with impulses to produce quantity rather than impulses to achieve quantity. I say this with caution and nuance, because the deontology of doctors, nursing staff and hospital administrators is fortunately such that, even if the incentives are sometimes in the wrong direction, medical practice is always or usually trying to do the right thing for the patient. However, the financial incentives are sometimes in the wrong direction and point very strongly towards more quantity, and there is also pressure to increase quantity, precisely in order to be able to finance hospitals adequately. We must tackle this as the first problem. We want to do this with a very ambitious global reform of hospital funding, by ending the dual role of doctors' fees and moving to a professional remuneration which, as Mr Bacquelaine said, must properly appreciate the intellectual deed and contact with the patient. That's absolutely right. When we say that we want a split between operating costs, which have to be financed directly from the hospital, and the professional remuneration of the doctor, we are indeed talking about his intellectual work, his contact with the patient, the effort required for this, as described in the note. This is a first important objective. Mrs Gijbels, I would point out that we want to move forward quickly in three sectors, namely clinical biology, medical imaging and medicines in hospital. We want to move forward relatively quickly and not wait for a global reform, in which we organize the whole budget for hospitals on the basis of pathology advances. You are absolutely right, of course an NMR is not a medical risk. I honestly do not think that we are making a mistake in our text either, because we clearly say that when it comes to a health problem, the problem is too many CT scans, too many PET scans, and not too many NMR scans. That distinction is, by the way, clear in the text. A first important objective is therefore to convert financial incentives that are too much in the direction of quantity into financial incentives that point towards quality. Secondly, our funding system feeds conflicts between hospital administrators and doctors. Instead of conflict, one must have cooperation. That is why I would also like to say straight away that if we create a division between the financing of the operation of hospitals, in which doctors operate, and the financing of the professional remuneration of the doctor, including his intellectual commitment, this must not mean that the doctors have nothing to say in the hospital, that they have nothing to say about how to develop the cost of working, on which priority must be invested. We must therefore opt for a different model of the administration of our hospitals, in which doctors can play their part properly and where the spirit of cooperation must be embedded in the interests of the patient. The second major objective is therefore cooperation, including cooperation and division of labour between hospitals. I do not know whether this is sufficiently clear from the note, but our conviction is as follows. If one day, in 2025 or later, we finance hospital work on the basis of all-in pathology advances, it will also be much easier to review division of labour between hospitals. In this way, we will be able, in a very simple way, to align the funding with what a hospital actually does and can actually expect. The shift of activities in the context of synergies and division of tasks between hospitals is not financially discouraged, but can be viewed financially in a very transparent way. Of course, this depends on the proposed reform of funding moving from a strictly closed budget for hospitals to an open budget. The individual administrator will have a prospective view of the development of the financing of the operation, depending on the hospital admissions. We will not be bothering the administrator afterwards with all kinds of corrections which make financial planning very difficult or the financial situation needs to be constantly reviewed. Today, these corrections are linked to the strictly closed nature of the budget. We opt for more open funding, which makes it more transparent for the administrator and the doctors, more predictable. This will also facilitate cooperation, synergy, job organisation and reorganisation between hospitals. I still have to convince my political colleagues, because this option means that the budget is not strictly closed. In the world of hospitals, we must also think about how we will monitor the overall development of this budget or how we will put a lot of accountability into it. These are two major challenges. A third point, which has already been mentioned, is to protect patients from excessive invoices, which are also very disparate and unjustified. It concerns in particular the supplements. The problem is that today's supplements are actually difficult to explain. It is not easy to explain why some hospitals require such high supplements and others do not. It undoubtedly has to do with shortcomings in funding, but it also has to do with other issues. At some point we will have to draw clear lines there, I think. That's also mentioned in the note. Finally, as I have already said, this reform is intended to make a very complex and opaque system more transparent. I'm going to go into a few points. Mrs Gijbels, you have quite rightly said that a major challenge, not to say a potential bottleneck, is the availability of data in this approach. It is indeed my intention to go to an all-in pathology forfait in one move, and I want to clear up the misunderstanding that patients with high risks, patients who are outliers, can just say that there is a forfait per intake. A flat rate per admission therefore presupposes a certain limitation in the variability of the problem with which the patient enters the hospital. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between high risk and more common situations, but we do want to do this at once, which may be a difference from how the plans were drawn up in the past. To do the reform at once can only be done after having carried out a number of analyses, in which the pathology gaps to be designed can also be brought into a correct proportion with the real cost of proper treatment of pathologies. By real cost, I mean both the operating costs associated with it in a hospital and also the correct professional remuneration of the services associated with it. The truth is that we do not have actual cost figures at our disposal today. In fact, we will have to make a thorough analysis of the real costs associated with the treatment of pathologies, on the basis of uniform analytical accounts, with a group of hospitals to be representative. That is the basis on which we must look at the responsible costs. Mrs Gijbels, you may have seen in the fine print of the proposal that we will not wait for that analysis in a very first move on clinical biology and simply look at actual expenditure. In a second movement, however, we also want to be able to finance clinical biology on the basis of responsible, genuinely determined and analysed costs. You are right to say that this is an immense challenge in terms of data, as, moreover, the revision of the nomenclature is an immense challenge. In fact, with this approach, we say that we want to speed up the scientific work started by three different teams. Otherwise, the work will never be done in time. I come now to Mrs Vanpeborgh's question on the networks. Mrs Vanpeborgh, in politics and in the conduct of policies, there is a general need to be avoided in order to always start something again. The previous government has conceived the network idea. The idea has also been rolled out. We now have 23 networks recognized by the regions. Is that landscape optimal? No. Does it answer to what my predecessor really intended? Not everywhere. The networks are heterogeneous in size, but they are not always neatly tuned to a specific population. I'm thinking of Antwerp, which you know well. There are two very large networks, but they are in a competitive relationship for the same population. That's not the ideal picture. The easy-to-achieve picture was to build networks that are more or less the same size in terms of population everywhere, with a one-to-one relationship between the network and the population. We can then finance hospitals in that network on the basis of what the population needs and we really have a public health policy. I won't recreate the drawing of those networks. We'll work with it the way they are now. I will have to make the finality clearer: what do we want to achieve? In this respect, we are indeed ambitious, despite all the difficulties due to their heterogeneous form. The aim is to promote cooperation and synergy, but also to allow efficiency exercises. This could be about a better synergy in the labs for anatomopathology. There is also an important challenge with regard to the organisation of care, but also with regard to the associated transport of patients and the invoice for the patients that is really a problem that we want to work on. Hospital networks also refer to the question of what is 'locoregional' and what is'supraregional'. In the case of local areas, the question must be asked as to what each hospital should or should not do and what concentration should be sought. That is also explained in the note and should now be on the table. Then one comes to sensitive subjects such as maternities, S2 stroke units and others. I really believe that we should concentrate more on the idea that care should be close to where it is necessary and possible, but that we should also concentrate care where concentration is needed, not for financial reasons. I think that in the public presentation of the note there may be a little disproportionate attention to the issue of materials, but I do understand that, because it has already brought a lot of discussion in the previous period of government. It's not about a saving order. Mrs Merckx, you have understood that, but that cannot be the intention. The idea is not to be spared. By the way, in our nomenclature there is a compensation against childbirth. It's gonna stay that way. We will not reduce the number of births. That's not the point. If we go to pathology forfaits and childbirths are financed on the basis of forfaits, we will not save if the number of births is not reduced. That's not the point. In fact, in a different way, the budget for hospitals' financial resources is a growth budget. I just mentioned the figures. We will not save on that. What is involved in the discussion on materials is the efficient use of human resources. For example, one hospital may have a little too few midwifes, given the number of women to give birth, and the other hospital may have a small surplus of midwifes. The next example is even more important. If, as a result of the fact that the materials are not properly distributed, there are situations where the buffer capacity of some materials is not large enough because the materiality itself is not large enough, which means that there is a risk that there will be no bed for urgent delivery, then there is no good work. This has nothing to do with savings, but it has to do with the fact that a materiality must be sufficient to ensure buffer capacity, in the interests of the proper care of women who will give birth and their baby. This has nothing to do with saving, it has to do with safety, quality and efficiency of the use of financial, material and human resources. I would like to emphasise very strongly what is in the note. Proximity where it can mean that when we think about concentration, we will always look at proximity in very concrete terms, for example in terms of driving times for all functions where time is critical, for example childbirths. Proximity where possible, concentration where necessary. This proximity applies to all functions that are time critical, measured in maximum driving time. It is important, for example, how fast a person should be in a materiality. If one arrives in matrimony, one should not run too much risk of not finding a bed. One must be sufficiently large to have buffer capacity. They have been given quite a lot of attention in comparison with other issues which are also very pressing, in the same atmosphere. For major trauma, we really need to go to supraregional functions. There are some other examples, such as head and neck tumours and ovarian tumors, where concentration of expertise is really needed for quality. Mrs Muylle, as far as the consultation is concerned, I sent the note directly to my colleagues in the Länder for a reason. I am assuming that, although it is a note that describes scruple reforms within the federal powers, this must be carried out in a good understanding and with some common perspective with the colleagues responsible in the Communities. I don't have a precise consultation process yet. But you're right, I have to take care of that. I need to develop a good dialogue with the federal actors, with my political colleagues and with my state colleagues. It is true that Parliament must also find a place in that whole. Mrs. Vanpeborgh, the timing is probably the biggest challenge. Since I am not saying that we are going into pathology forfaits in a few big steps, but actually in one step, we must also be able to take that step sufficiently quickly, even if it is not for tomorrow. In a presentation I have distributed you will find a timeline that I have shown the actors. You will probably have seen that presentation, but otherwise I will have them forwarded to the committee secretariat. Grosso mode is that we lay the building blocks for funding reform in 2022, 2023 and 2024, so that we could start implementing pathology-based funding by 2025. So we want to move forward faster, ideally in 2022 and 2023, on clinical biology, medical imaging, daily hospitalization and quality financing, and I want to increase the volume of what we do in the context of pay for performance as well as the focus. The focus should not be a whole dashboard of different quality indicators, I want to focus on preventing hospital infections and fighting antimicrobial resistance. I would like to put a substantial amount on that, more than the current amount for Pay for Performance. That is also something I want to take up in 2022 and 2023. By 2022, we need to be able to make progress on the definition of local and sub-regional care tasks. This is partly legal and requires a royal decision, but also a lot of consultation. With regard to supplements, I would like us to be able to achieve a standstill starting in 2022, but a standstill in respect of fees. We should be able to implement the more ambitious idea, the setting of a ceiling for pay supplements, which we also want in the outpatient sector, by 2024. Why can't we do all this at once? In the meantime, work needs to be done to recalibrate the nomenclature. New balances must be found between doctors. The intellectual and professional qualifications, expertise, commitment and risks borne by doctors must be properly rewarded. It's gonna take some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I listened to what you said about the materials. But if there is no more materiality and people have to go many kilometers further, what is that different from saving? That's a concern close to home that's gone missing. For those people, this is a saving, as your party in this hemisphere said when Mrs De Block wanted to do so. My question is therefore very specific. Which sizes do you want to close? In the report of the Knowledge Centre, it was about efficiency gains. I ask myself whether childbirth should be effective. It was very clearly stated in the report that the quality of care in those smaller sizes was certainly good. In addition, we hear from many testimonies that socially weaker people often come to give birth in those smaller sizes, which means that the family will no longer be able to visit. I think that's an important point to think about, but I see that you're apparently determined to close those materials. As far as day hospitalization is concerned, you did not answer my questions either. Indeed, there is more money going to hospitals, including through the White House Fund and wage increases, including through the IFIC system. But you also know that's not enough. If we go to flat-rate financing, then I fear that people will always be sent home sooner and more quickly. I see that as a general practitioner too, and that the workload on staff on the ground will increase. Nor have I heard about my question whether you will be working on the framework standards. Finally, you seem to want to address a number of issues, such as the fees, which I agree with. At the heart of the matter, however, is that the doctor remains funded per achievement. You will not deal with this funding. I believe that this will allow a form of conflict to persist. A doctor will no longer be paid through contributions, but will still be paid per performance, and will therefore continue to be encouraged to perform a great deal of performance. I think we need to look further at this and work on a budget that is linked to the population. There is already experience of this at international level. We must therefore ask ourselves how we can keep people healthy in a particular region, with integrated funding, and abandon performance-related funding. Marc Noppen already gave examples of this. Others have already made proposals in this respect. I think that we should continue along these lines, but I do not see you getting rid of the savings logic of former Health Minister De Block, which worries me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u55	Minister, I have not received any reply. Of which act. I'm not going to rest my questions or try to push you a little further. Like my colleague Nathalie Muylle, I think we will need more in-depth discussions, otherwise you only discuss what interests you. There will be different speeds and different calendars. For the 2025 package, you will immediately touch mannes such as clinical biology, radiology, drugs and supplements, which will significantly reduce hospital funding. For the transition in the path you describe until 2025, sufficient resources must be guaranteed to hospitals. Otherwise, there will be a major impact on staff, projects, patients and quality of care. In addition, I asked you who was going to conduct this in-depth study that will take time. You didn't answer me. I would like this to be clarified because I do not want decisions to be taken between a few, because all the actors involved must be included in the reform of hospital financing. Finally, it will be necessary to have a truth speech for patients about the closure of maternity or other services and some consultations. It will also take a truth speech because, for some, it will take several weeks to wait for a nuclear magnetic resonance. I encourage you to speak truth otherwise it is hospitals, doctors, caregivers who will have to explain the direct impact on patients when policies have not done so. It is a minimum of respect for reform and future political decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u56	Minister, I hope you will also present a quantified plan, because a lot of money is being shifted. Hospital funding is a very complex knitting. If you pull one thread, you're gonna fray all that knitting. I therefore believe that the last word has not yet been said about the retrospective standstill, the payments, the reduction of the wage supplements and the pathology advances. There will certainly be a lot of study work and a lot of consultation. You indicate that the focus should be on quality, with which I fully agree, but it is not clear to me exactly how that will be evaluated. At the same time, I hope that the doctors and hospitals will still be able to take the helm into their own hands and come up with their own bottom-up proposals. If they can achieve efficiency gains themselves, I hope that this can benefit the network or the hospital, so that they themselves will see the benefits of it. As Mr Muylle said, I hope that we will be able to discuss this in a more thorough manner in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I would also like to thank you for going into consultation, although that seems logical to me. It is good that you want to involve the various stakeholders and Parliament. I think there are a lot of questions, but they cannot be addressed today, given the time frame. I would like to quote two more elements. Firstly, the discussion about the forfaits and the legitimate concern about data, which Mrs Gijbels also shares, reminds me of the same discussion we had in 2018, when we started with low variable care. There was also a lot of reservations back then. We're not starting today with a white leaf. I've asked you a few times about the evaluation of the low-variable care. I note that this is going pretty well in the hospitals where I operate today. In that sense, there is much to learn from this. We evolve into a more complex concern, which also makes it more complex, but we don't start with a white leaf. The low variable care is going well today. We can certainly learn business from that. Secondly, you have clearly explained where you are going with the networks. I fully agree with you on that. When I feel what lives on the ground, I can say that there is also a need for some quick wins. The Federal Council for Hospital Services (FRZV) says that in the area of psychiatry, psychiatry, rehabilitation, psychiatry in the elderly something must happen quickly. The programming criteria are too old and the needs are very great. The FRZV has already done a nice job, for example for the conversion of beds for psychiatry. I hope that's where you pick the low-hanging fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u58	I want to confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u59	That's very good. That's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have listened carefully and I am particularly looking at Mrs Merckx. Minister, it is a good thing that you say that it is not a saving operation, but that it is the intention to use the new resources better and to use them better. The four objectives also support this. In that respect, I am certainly reassured. You have a point about the networks. They're over there. They are not always ideal, but also in my region they begin to work better together. Indeed, you must continue to encourage cooperation between the networks. We now have a better view of the timing, for which we are grateful. It's a very ambitious timing. I really hope you get them. After all, I am convinced that it is an incredibly important and difficult challenge. I should also like to return to Mrs Merckx's point. This is not only about tensions related to money flows or tensions between networks, but also within networks. To conclude, I would like to give an example from my region. That was about a materiality transferred within the same network to another hospital within the same hospital group, only seven kilometres away. That's caused an incredible amount of trouble. So it's about more than mileage or money. It is also about a lot of emotions associated with that. I can certainly give you the example. You'll be amazed. I hope, in conclusion, that it will succeed within the time frame. After all, it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic680x.u61	Mr Minister, I would like to take advantage of this topical debate because I have been asked by your note, as have my colleagues. I welcome your clarification that your note will be the starting point for a broad dialogue with the actors concerned. I think that's the least I can do. On the other hand, more questions arise when you say that this note does not pursue the objective of saving money, but of investing. That was exactly what Mrs De Block promised a little over two years ago. She then stated that the aim, in the long term, would be to reduce the average societal cost per delivery in order to free up resources to invest in other areas of care. We did not obtain any guarantees in this regard at the time. I hope that we will get these guarantees in the future with you. You tell us that the aim is not to focus on quantity but on quality. Today, however, you did not comment on this maternity measure. If maternity wards are again threatened with closure, it is because they do not perform enough deliveries, regardless of all the other services they offer. There is a personalized service available to patients themselves before, during and after delivery, as well as a service to quickly detect problems affecting infants and childhood illnesses. I was able to see this with my own eyes when I had the opportunity to visit, following the KCE report in February 2020, Heuzy's maternity. You're telling us today that you're going to take this closeness into account for patients, but you still don't tell us how. At the time, the KCE report guaranteed a maximum journey of 30 minutes, but it did not take into account the density of the Walloon territory, the underserved places by public transport, the figures of the Hainaut Health Observatory which showed inequalities in health – and therefore the need to maintain certain maternity wards in order not to exacerbate these inequalities – the number of pre- and post-natal consultations or follow-ups of at-risk pregnancies. All of this is now permitted by these maternity wards regardless of the number of births they are giving birth to. I would therefore sincerely hope that the consultation you are proposing today will allow all these factors to be taken into account.
