ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u1	Madam Minister, Minister, you announced earlier that you would have institutional discussions within the government this summer. For this reason, according to the majority parties, the public inquiry and the Joint Committee on State Reform had to be absolutely completed before the summer. Hence my questions to you: 1. What is the state of play on the planning of these institutional talks within government? 2. What is your personal ambition in this matter? 3. Are you planning a general debate or are you planning to focus on a number of specific areas of competence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u2	Mrs Pas, Mr Loones, of course I have followed the work of the Joint Committee with particular attention. The committee had set itself the task of evaluating the state reforms since 1970. However, I have followed them mainly in order to carry out an objective examination of the bottlenecks in the division of powers and the functioning of our institutions. I am convinced that this committee has taken a number of sensible steps in the preparation of a further state reform that I consider necessary. First of all, it is important that it was not just a federal exercise, but also that members of parliament of the federal states were part of the committee in a fully-fledged way through the Senate. For example, in addition to the exercises taking place in their own parliaments, Members of Parliament from the Community and the Regions were able to take part in deciding on the experts who were heard and make an important contribution to the debate. The full role of the Länder in this debate is important to me because they are often confronted with the limitations and difficulties of the current division of powers. In the committee we have also heard good presentations from various speakers from working and civil society, from the magistrate and government administrations and the academic world. They talked about areas where the division of powers between the federal government and the Communities and the Regions is very complex and fragmented. As you know, the committee dealt with issues such as health care, mobility, climate and energy, which are among the most complex issues in the distribution of competences. I also found the hearings and debates that took place on the two-chamber system and the improvement of forms of cooperation illuminating. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to all those who have spoken and participated in it for their expert and enlightening input. You are asking about the state of play with regard to institutional reforms within the government. I indicated in this committee on 16 February and 4 May that the method and timing for implementing the passage on institutional reform were discussed at its core on 19 January and 11 February. Following these discussions, the Nuclear Cabinet instructed the Ministers for Institutional Reforms to establish contacts with the various vice-premiers of the majority on the implementation of the passages in the government agreement on institutional reforms, in particular health care. The consultations have not yet been completed. I cannot therefore give you any further information on this subject. As for your question on the extent to which the Flemish opposition is involved in these discussions, I can refer again to my reply in this committee of 16 February and 4 May. I have indicated that no concrete agreements have yet been reached within the government on this issue. In the meantime, nothing has changed. As far as the further method and timing are concerned, we must first go through and conclude the consultation round. At the end of the consultation round, we will work with the Prime Minister to see how the desired progress on state reform can be made. I understand, of course, the critics who say that things are going a little slow. I would also prefer to adopt today rather than tomorrow the special laws relating to the seventh state reform. In view of the current fragmentation of powers, I believe that a state reform is much needed in this country. You don't have to convince me of that. That is also what the work of the Joint Committee has shown, especially in the area of health care. However, you also know that it is not only possible to negotiate a state reform. Moreover, it is not a simple political task and it is also a particularly time-consuming one. I believe that the government's pace of state reform can be increased effectively. I am committed to that and I will continue to do so. You can expect that commitment from me. It is not only my responsibility and that of Mr Clarinval to monitor this passage from the coalition agreement, but also that of the Prime Minister, who is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the coalition agreement and, in the event of enlargement, also that of the entire government. If you think you can introduce a faster method of making progress, I would urge you to find your own allies within Parliament to achieve the required two-thirds majority, plus a majority in each language group. I will, of course, follow up on such activities with great attention and interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u3	Madam Secretary, I assume it must be an answer to the four questions put together. Was it just a state of affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u4	Mrs Pas, if you also refer to your written questions for your other questions, I can also answer the other questions immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u5	Madam Secretary, I had referred to the written version for all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u6	Mrs. Pas, excuse me, I didn't quite get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u7	(...). [[No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u8	That is about institutional reforms. Is it okay for you if we deal with everything together? [[Permission granted.]] The second part dealt with the interfederal administrative task force.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u9	(...). [[No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u10	It was, among other things, but I wasn't finished talking. Mrs Pas, I can tell you that the interfederal task force has now met four times in 2022, namely on 24 February, 7 March, 28 March and 30 May. In turn, the thematic working groups should draw up a report on the questions referred to in point 7 of the notification of the Consultation Committee of 24 November 2021. I have already explained this point at previous committee meetings. The Task Force coordinates the work of the seven interfederal thematic working groups set up and also monitors the progress of the process. In doing so, the Task Force shall work on behalf of the Consultation Committee, providing the reports of the Task Force in the final reports of the seven thematic working parties to the Consultation Committee as soon as the work is completed. Your request to deliver the reports now is therefore premature, because the activities are still ongoing. To your question on the evaluation of the work of the Task Force, I can answer that the role of the Task Force, as discussed earlier, is limited to the official coordination of the seven thematic working groups set up and that, of course, the task force also takes this coordinating task very much to heart. Your last question concerned any tasks of the Task Force when the work of the seven thematic working groups was completed. The answer to this is premature at the moment and I cannot yet give it. As soon as the work is completed, it will be sent to the Consultative Committee to take a decision on the matter and to consider whether the task force should continue its work. A final set of questions concerns the thematic working groups. The state of play is that up to now only the Local Boards Working Group has completed its work and delivered a report. The Working Groups on Health, Climate and Energy, Mobility and Transport and Taxation and Finance should normally complete their work at the beginning of July 2022 and then deliver their report. The Working Groups on Labour Market Policy, Justice and Justice Houses are planning to complete their work in the course of October, due to the large number of topics discussed. You also asked me how I evaluate the thematic working groups. It is, of course, important to bear in mind what is and is not part of the remit of these thematic working groups. The official thematic working groups have not even had the mandate to conduct political negotiations. Moreover, officials cannot be expected to conduct such political negotiations. Consequently, it is not in line with expectations or with the task of drawing concrete political conclusions from the work with a view to future state reform. What the thematic working groups should do, in accordance with their mandate, they are doing well, because they provide for an inventory, a systematisation and a depth in the problem analysis of the policy areas and areas of competence of which powers are divided, taking into account the input of both federal and community and regional administrations. This, of course, brings significant added value. This will provide a palette of issues, but also of solutions, which can serve as input for further political discussions and political negotiations. The work of the thematic working groups therefore contains a great deal of information for the political negotiations on and on a subsequent state reform. That was the intention from the very beginning. In addition, the thematic working groups force the various federal and sub-state administrations to reflect in a structured way on the problems in practice in the field of division of competences. This was not always at the top of the priority calendar in all the administrations in this country. So it is certainly a value to be able to deal with this in a structured manner. We are therefore convinced that the exercise within these thematic working groups will further mature the minds in preparation for a state reform. This is important because there is a need for support for a state reform and the relevant important decisions to be taken. This support cannot be sought or found anywhere, which must be created by listing the problem points and the beginning of solutions. In this sense, we can all welcome the fact that the state reform is being considered and discussed from the ground, from the administrations, from the practical point of view. This may seem to be a rather small step from a distance, but we are convinced that it is necessary to prepare for the state reform. We know how heated emotions can be when we talk about state reform in this country. If it is well prepared by people from all over the country within the records on the ground, that can mean an important step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u11	Madam Secretary, patience is a virtue. At the four legislatures I sit here, I have to be more and more patient. It is an understatement that the pace of implementation of the Community passage from the coalition agreement can certainly be raised. Well, it's a bit of a rush on the spot, isn't it? At the core, the mandate was given to at least consult with the Deputy Prime Ministers in their areas. You do not even impose timing for that consultation within your own government. It will be a while before that pace can actually rise. I'm sure you're pulling the cart. Yesterday, when discussing the approach to the covid pandemic, you said that you were in favour of the homogeneous health care packages at regional level. That spirit is missing from your government partners. The task force apparently met four times. We'll follow that up. I had questions about the thematic working groups. The report from the local authorities is ready. A number of other reports can be expected in the near future. Is it possible to transfer these reports to Parliament for information? This inventory contains a great deal of information that can be very useful, apart from the reports on labour market policy, justice and justice houses that we can only expect in the autumn. The reports already available can be interesting summer reading for many Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u12	Thank you for the answers to the questions. You know that we follow this closely and regularly ask you questions about it in Parliament. We'll keep track of the answers, too. Frankly, a few months ago, we asked about the timetable for institutional discussions and the answer was when the online survey had to be completed before the summer. For the same reason, the Joint Committee with Chamber and Senate had to be absolutely completed before Easter. For example, during the summer holidays you could discuss the constitutional ambition of this team with the government. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, the Prime Minister will be involved in negotiations with Mrs van der Straeten. When it comes to your files, we don't hear the rest of the government, and that's not a priority. Unfortunately, I can make that analysis of almost all the CD&V files: asylum and migration and the chaos surrounding it are not one of the seven yards of the Prime Minister, nor is the fiscal reform of Minister Van Peteghem, although it is now coming into the debate with some pulling and pulling. It's special that the Prime Minister doesn't care about this chapter. I questioned him about this this week, but I didn't catch him at that time with much ambition. You say that you would like to see this legislature approved with special knowledge. So do I, but I would already be satisfied to see proposals of special law and note that the drafting is in progress. I have already questioned several of your colleagues from the government about this, but I have not caught anyone in any ambition either. Nor does it concern the prime minister, Minister Vandenbroucke, who simply kicks the ball back to your cabinet. I had also asked if there was any capacity in the Cabinets to follow up on all this. Everyone said they'd definitely do that, but when it comes to it, we don't see anything. I dream of adopting these laws, but hope to see them at least already this legislature. You say that politics is not an easy task and that the pace must be raised. Madam Minister, that was precisely the point that we have been advocating from day one that this power should be granted to a Deputy Prime Minister. That's what the coalition agreement says. Your party did not consider it necessary to assign your power, Institutional Reforms, to a Deputy Prime Minister. Now we see why. I often get the criticism that I always complain about this, but that is the political weight that one gives to a dossier, the fact that one is always present in the nuclear cabinet and very visible, in order to put that dossier higher on the agenda each time. I call on your Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Van Peteghem, to make this more visible within the nuclear cabinet. It goes without saying that all the socio-economic issues are important, but they will only be resolved if the institutional solution is also found. Fifthly, I would like to thank you for being an ally and attentive observer of legislative initiatives being taken in this House. This afternoon, a proposal to amend the special law of 1980 on institutional reform, specifically on airports and mobility, is on the agenda of this committee. We are happy to do what you recommend to us and also try to create a basis of support for a number of dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u13	Madam President, the order of questions is a bit strange. In fact, we would have liked to have discussed the questioning of citizens first, then the handling of the results, then the drawing of lots and then the institutional reforms, but the agenda is just the other way round. Madam Minister, Minister, first of all, we were able to read in the press about the system of civil panels with lots of draw that the government is putting in place, with a double filter in Parliament. There are a lot of questions left. My main point can be summarized as follows: will the government do so alone or will Parliament become a real partner in that dossier? We are talking about very specific aspects. What will be the statute of the panels? How will that be determined? How will we agree on the organisation and handling, the Statute for Members, the processing of the results? You have already spoken about this in the government, but there is still a lot to be done in detail. Will you discuss this with Parliament first, in an exchange of views? Will you first have a discussion on this and, if necessary, put proposals to the vote before taking any decisions with the government? It is then specifically about the statute. I hope that will be the case. In that respect, things have gone a bit wrong with the online citizen search. As a result, it has always been somewhat unclear, including among the population, what would happen to its results. This has not benefited the participation rate in the public survey. My second question concerns what you want to do in terms of content with the civil panels. Will this be aligned with Parliament, or will the government itself come forward with a proposal on the issues that can be discussed there? I find it remarkable that my question on the electoral system has been added to the debate here. It is not unknown to you how things are going: Members submit their questions, the cabinet makes a proposal to pool a number of questions, which is passed on to the services, who then put them on the agenda. Madam Secretary, you and your cabinet have combined my question on the reform of the electoral system with questions about the civil panels. Therefore, I can only assume that it is your intention to debate the electoral system during the civil panels. I'd find it interesting if that happened. This seems to me an interesting theme to discuss with the participants in the whole project of participation. Several parties have already expressed their views. Open Vld, not present here, wants a federal constituency. CD&V, like our party, wants smaller constituencies. The government agreement contains a number of issues concerning electoral law. The theme was also included in your online citizen survey. Now you seem to want to mathematicize that further in the civilian panels. Is that indeed so, Madam Secretary? Can we conclude from the bundling of the questions here that you want to see the amendment of electoral legislation discussed in the citizens' panels? If not, what exactly is your ambition with the texts in the coalition agreement on electoral law and electoral circles? When will you come to Parliament with this? Two cases one, Madam Secretary. Either the subject will be dealt with in the civil panels and the work will not be completed until next year. Either it doesn't come up on the civilian panels and I'd like to know if you want to speed it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u14	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u15	The part of the government agreement on experimenting with civil panels and mixed committees is gradually being implemented. To make that possible, a number of things need to be done. There must be a legal basis for drawing lots and new regulatory provisions must be introduced into the Chamber under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. Our group had tabled a legislative proposal to make the legal framework possible. We are enthusiastic that the government has similar ambitions and has already approved a preliminary draft law. I suspect that this approval is also partly at the root of the question put by my fellow Members. That also means, of course, that Parliament still has some work to do. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Reform of Parliament's work is not the most active committee. I am not even sure that this committee has met more than once since the government was appointed. So that still has to be done. It is also necessary to define the issues on which the civil panels or joint committees will work. That is a choice that belongs first and foremost to Parliament. I am not saying that to insult or provoke the ministers. They have already indicated that this is also the government's vision. Some time ago, you also put that question in writing to Parliament. At the same time, I believe that everything needs to be properly aligned. The link between one and the other must be clear. In order to contribute to a breakthrough, I think it is appropriate to question the ministers on this issue, as the preliminary draft has been approved. Madam and Minister, how do you see today the connection between the online search and the follow-up via the joint committees and civil panels? Can the themes already be laid down by the Chamber? Or do you think it would be better to wait until the results of the online citizen survey are known? As there may be some coherence, will the participants in the survey also be informed about the follow-up steps and possibilities? Even though the initiative lies with the Chamber, I wanted to get a bit of a grip on your point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, on 3 June 2022 the Council of Ministers indeed approved the preliminary draft law until I quote the title - defining the principles for the drawing of lots of citizens for the joint committees and civil panels organised at the initiative of the Chamber of Representatives. It is immediately clear what our ambition is and how we see things. For example, we are creating the necessary legal basis for the draw of citizens, who can then be part of civil panels or joint committees organised by the Chamber of Representatives. In doing so, we are implementing the agreements in the coalition agreement. Mr Calvo, you spoke of experimenting. Even if it is new forms of civic participation, I would not necessarily describe it as an experiment, because some thought has been given to it. Mr Loones, Parliament is indeed an important partner. We have said that from the start. I have just read out the title of the preliminary draft, so it indicates that. Of course, there are agreements on this. Mr Calvo, you just asked me again about the issues. I would like to refer to last year's letter and the agreements that have been made on the subject. As far as I am concerned, these themes are on the table. The citizen survey was divided into themes and sub-questions. Given that the issues relating to the future of our country are well known, I do not think that anything is stopping the Chamber of Representatives from making the necessary preparations now that the legal framework is in place. We did indeed have to develop a legal framework, because citizens must be selected and invited. A draw will be organised on the basis of a sample of persons meeting different conditions. The drawing shall be carried out independently by means of a technique which can ensure the balanced nature of the selection and the absence of any bias in the selection method used. This requires access to the National Register, because the Chamber of Representatives, which can organise the panels, must have reliable and authentic information which can only be made available by the National Register. In accordance with Article 22 of the Constitution, which has also been on the subject of other matters in recent months, such as the coronapas, the legislator must regulate access to the National Register of Natural Persons, so it is his right to grant the rights and obligations to citizens who are external to Parliament. All the elements of the preliminary draft had to be regulated by law and could not therefore simply be included in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. I can tell you in advance that the preliminary draft law contains four elements. Any processing of personal data can have an impact on privacy. Any interference in that right, its exercise or the modelling of that right shall be permitted only if it is necessary and proportionate to the purpose of the public interest. A first element concerns the determination of the purposes of the intended data processing, in this case the organisation of a draw with a view to the composition of a panel or committee. The draw takes place in two phases. In the first phase a draw is carried out to identify a certain number of citizens who are registered in the population register of a Belgian municipality, who have reached the age of 18 and who enjoy civil and political rights. In the second phase, a second draw will be organised by the sampling method from the persons who responded to the initial call, taking into account at least gender, age, place of residence and level of education. Secondly, the preliminary draft defines the categories of persons covered by the processing. Thirdly, the preliminary draft defines the categories of data to be processed. Fourthly, and finally, the preliminary draft lays down the time limit for the retention of data. Today the opinions of the Legislative Section of the Council of State and of the Data Protection Authority are being sought on the preliminary draft. After the summer recess, the draft law will be finalised on the basis of these opinions and will then also be submitted to Parliament. I hope, Mr Calvo, that this can go hand in hand with the finalisation of the preparatory work for the panels. It is up to the House to select a particular subject on its own initiative to allow the civil panels or the committee to make recommendations on a specific issue concerning our democracy or the future of our country. Mr Calvo, I do think it is appropriate that the Joint Committee or the Civil Panels should continue to build on one or more themes from the online citizen interviews. We have kept it very broad. It seems likely to me that some themes will come back so that the thematic debate launched through the online platform can be continued and deepened. This idea was already announced in the coalition agreement and was also the subject of the question in the government's letter to the Chamber last year to deal with it. The recommendations and suggestions shared on the online platform will be included in a report which, as far as we are concerned, will be delivered to Parliament as soon as possible so that it can be inspired. That brings me to your question, Mr Loones, as to what happens to the results of the survey. Everyone will be able to check that the answer, suggestion or recommendation that has been made is included in that report, which is distributed to civil society, Parliament and the government for further political thinking and possibly also decision-making. So the opinions that all citizens could formulate through the platform will also be disclosed to the panels or committees. In our letter, we have already made some suggestions, such as increasing the involvement of citizens in the decision-making process, respecting the principles of our representative democracy, and amending electoral legislation. So that is something that can already be done. Mr Loones, the aim is to evaluate and possibly reform the electoral system, obviously in consultation with Parliament. Parliament is an unmistakable partner in this. In fact, it does a little less to the role played by Parliament to speak of a partner, because Members of Parliament can and must think about this perfectly. The further deliberative process will then be possible in Parliament, particularly in the Chamber. The fact that greater challenges in relation to our electoral system would be dealt with in a joint committee or a civil panel if the Chamber decided to do so does not, of course, mean that we are already working on the adjustments to electoral legislation. Time is important and therefore the tracks could be followed in parallel. We are convinced that our elections must follow developments in our society. That is why we are also preparing a draft law which amends the various electoral laws with a view to improving the organisation of elections in Belgium, both for the electorate and for the candidates and those responsible for the various polling stations. This concerns in particular improvements and simplifications in the electoral process based on the experience with the 2019 elections. We can certainly come back to that after the summer. Mr Calvo, you are asking for the distinction between the joint committees and the civil panels. Both have advantages and disadvantages. I therefore think it is wise to hold an in-depth debate on the design of the deliberative processes in order to determine jointly the subjects, the forms of work and what happens subsequently with the results, so that maximum transparency is offered to all those who take part in them. I understand that the Chamber is currently working on an amendment to its Rules of Procedure to allow joint committees and civil panels. In addition to the draft law, there is indeed a need for a number of adjustments to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 60 of the Constitution. In the meantime, we also arrange for that access to the National Register. This must be done by the legislature, in accordance with the Constitution. Wherever possible, the preliminary draft law allows the Chamber to organise this further. So we will only provide the minimum pedestal needed to make it possible. All other elements belonging to the Court's preferences can then be reflected in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. For example, it is left to the Chamber as far as possible to regulate the practical operation, for example the way in which such a committee is set up, its composition, the way in which recommendations are formulated, the duration for which such a committee is set up, the means of termination or dissolution, the chairing of such a panel or committee and the drafting of the reports. So there is still a great deal of room for manoeuvre for the Chamber to organise this in the desired way. We can conclude by saying that there is a great deal to be said about these joint committees and civil panels. This is not only the case in Belgium, but also in many other countries. Some countries see Belgium as an example, for example because of the experience in Eastern Belgium. In Eastern Belgium, a permanent process of civic participation has been introduced, with the Citizens' Council of Lost Citizens, which can propose both subjects and follow the recommendations formulated. In addition, the Citizens' Assembly comes together with lousy citizens on a particular theme. In this way, deliberative processes are permanently provided for. In addition, the Brussels Parliament also has joint committees of elected citizens and members of parliament. Belgium therefore has some experience in this area, but not yet at the level of the federal government. In this respect, I would like to express some reservations. I do not believe that such a civil panel should be regarded as a substitute for our representative system. After all, it never has that legitimacy. That is not my intention or ambition, in accordance with Article 33 of the Constitution. However, it could complement our representative system and be seen as one of the possible forms of civic participation. That requires a lot of education and training, so that everyone understands exactly what it is and that possibly fake news about the design - as we also knew when we started the online search - can be smothered in the bud. In terms of timing, the organisation of this citizen participation could take place before or in addition to the parliamentary process to complement the debate in Parliament. It is also possible for the Chamber to decide on this. One condition is that we organise and frame this well so that the efforts of the citizens are rewarded and that it can really be an enrichment. This participation must be preceded by preparation for a meaningful discussion. We can't go ice cream in one night. A large number of conditions must be met in order to make it a good process. In any case, we want to guarantee diversity and bring about a rich debate. Such a deliberative process in society requires a great deal of diversity. There must also be diversity in the sources of information and good contact with both politicians and civil society, which also organises forms of participation and deliberation. There must be time for the debate and the conversations must be moderated so that everyone can make their say. As far as I am concerned, a civil panel is not the only answer to the question of democratic renewal, but rather a puzzle piece in the complex story of strengthening trust in democracy. For our part, we are doing what is necessary to facilitate this. Then we can pass the baton on to the Chamber, and possibly also to the Senate in the future, to organise it in a concrete manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u17	Madam Minister, you are aware of our more ideological criticism of this approach. I do not want to have that debate here. The civilian panels are coming in. I would like to take up your last sentence, namely that the civil panels should be an element to strengthen confidence in democracy. In this respect, I sincerely urge you to do it seriously, in a way that effectively strengthens confidence in democracy. After all, you have made the choice with this team to organise this exercise in this way. The online survey has not been a good example in this respect, precisely because there was uncertainty about the precise purpose and what would happen to the results. That's not my analysis, this analysis resounded, among other things, when you were a guest of Re-Bel, Philippe Van Paris' team, more than a year ago. When you do such an exercise, it was like that, you have to be very clear from the beginning about where that will lead and what will happen to it, otherwise you just lower the participation rate and make sure that the gap with politics gets bigger. I understand from your answers that it is an enormous amount of work to set up such an exercise, both legal and operational, including the debate in Parliament on the definition of the mandate, the statute and so on. We share that analysis. You are right to say that this debate must be conducted and that Parliament is more than just a partner. I would therefore like to call on everyone to take the time to do so seriously, so that it is completed before the drawing takes place. You need to be able to tell people who want to participate in such a project from the start what they are committed to. What issues will be discussed, within what time frame, with what status and what will happen to the results? They need to know that before they commit to participate. We need to do that, we need to provide the legislative basis to enable that draw. However, the operationalisation of the system should only happen after all these questions have been resolved, otherwise you risk again feeding frustration rather than participation. That would be very unfortunate. I'm not an expert on the subject, but that's what I read from experts. What I'm saying literally comes from interviews I've read, including David Van Reybrouck, with his specific call to ensure clarity before such an exercise is launched. We read in the media that these civilian panels might start early next year. When I hear what remains to be done, with all the debates that have yet to take place, that timing seems to me to be rather ambitious. We can give a realistic perspective, so that everyone knows within what time frame is thought and what exactly that all means, including in terms of practical organisation. I hear in the corridors that the Senate would be given a new position, with its very uncomfortable red seats. In particular, the call to do the exercise thoroughly, with proper preparation and honest communication with the people who commit themselves, so that they know what to expect. I also understood that there will be two kinds of panels, mixed and non-mixed. There must also be sufficient clarity about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u18	With regard to added value, the Minister explained in detail and convincingly how these forms of work could be complementary and supportive to the traditional representative forms of work. I think we really need such physical dialogue at this time. There must again be places of reflection and reflection that can balance online reflexes and permanent expression. Mr Loones, I see real added value there. It is not a miracle solution, but it can strengthen the democratic thought, the commitment to empathy and dialogue. Madam Minister, Mr Loones' concern is also mine. Only it must be terribly annoying for you to answer those questions. We should actually ask the President-in-Office to sit on the benches, because the government has done its part of the work. I share Mr Loones' fear of a re-release of the citizen survey, which has been criticised, but in this case the responsibility lies not with you but with Parliament. It's an experiment, as the coalition agreement states. It's not the very first time it's happened, but it's still pioneering, which implies vulnerability. It takes time. The regulatory provisions must therefore be put on paper as soon as possible. The forward-looking work on the future of our representative democracy could be very interesting, but that should not prevent us from discussing more pragmatic short-term reforms of the electoral system. The Chamber has an important role to play there, also because these issues have been assigned to the Chamber in the coalition agreement. Your outstretched hand to speak to each other about the update of the electoral code after the summer recess, I welcome it. I welcome the fact that you are consulting the political groups before making a final choice, so that not only the majority but also the opposition have the opportunity to present its ideas on the reform of the electoral code. Elections are a matter for all parties. Investing a moment with each other after the recess, in the run-up to that update and before it is submitted, therefore seems to me wise in function of support and inspiration. Then the panels or the joint committees can do the more forward-looking long-term work, because that is one of the themes for which such a form of work can certainly be useful. So I am putting my cards on the table transparently, including with regard to the government's colleagues, and in defence of the minister who has done her part of the work in this matter and perhaps even a little more, because it eventually went through a draft law which I had hoped would have been possible through a legislative proposal. So the government has done more than its share of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u19	I had also put a question on the budget. Mr Calvo said that the government has done its job, but it is not quite clear to me in what budget exactly the exercise of the civil panel will come into. Is it included in Parliament's budget or in the administration's budget? This is important for the division of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u20	Madam Secretary, you were a guest in the Bundestag and attended a number of interesting exchanges of views on the role of the Senate, electoral legislation and the modernisation of parliamentary operation. Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u21	Mr Loones, I have indeed paid a combined visit to Germany, and that was very interesting. I visited the federal police academy, which was about education, I attended a lunch on radicalisation and terrorism, phenomena that concern us all, and then I had a discussion with and an explanation by Marc André Wiegand, an expert on the German parliamentary system. We have been able to discuss in detail the issues that you may have derived from my tweet, namely the role of the Senate, the Bundesrat, the electoral system and the parliamentary system. I'll come to the conclusion immediately. What we can derive from this is that each country may face its own challenges in terms of democratic renewal. They look at us and we look at them. They were looking at us, for example, about the citizen questioning. We learn from each other. We have also specifically discussed the challenges for Germany on two fronts. Firstly, the challenge for the Bundestag is the reform of the electoral system. You may know that those who vote in Germany have two votes. One works with a combined system, with both proportional representation and elements of a majority system. The change in electoral behaviour after each recent election, with the two of them no longer voting for the same party, means that more and more seats will go to Parliament and so more Members will be present in the Bundestag. In the meantime, the Bundestag already has 736 members, which is more than in the European Parliament where there are 705 seats. Germany considers this to be untenable, not only in terms of logistics, because one has to place seats each time, but also financially has an impact, even for renting and putting into service buildings in Berlin, because more and more people need to be housed. Thus, Germany is currently considering how to make the system more efficient. That's very interesting. A side note is that during my Law degree I did study that too, but it was a bit further in my memory. It is particularly interesting how they organized themselves there with those two votes and the balance seats and overhang seats, which has led to an increase. Imagine that this would happen in Belgium, namely that there would be more parliamentarians in the Chamber at each election. That would probably lead to a debate. It is also interesting that in Germany the Senate or the Bundesrat has a representation of the sixteen state governments. That council is therefore more of an executive body and in principle speaks out on every piece of legislation introduced by the government. In this respect too, we have had an opportunity to exchange views and to draw up ideas for the establishment of our Senate. There is a structural link between the Länder and the federal decision-making process. This is necessary, also in Germany, given the large number of powers for which both the federal government and all the Länder are jointly competent, although in Germany the hierarchy of standards applies, which in many cases is a solution to debates and conflicts between competences. It is certainly not possible to do a simple copy-paste of the structures or methods to Belgium. However, since Germany is generally regarded as a solid and mature federal country, it has been particularly educational and the exchange of views has given me a broader perspective on the subject, which can be inspiring. It was a very short visit to Germany. However, we certainly keep in touch, for example on security issues, which I had the opportunity to discuss with the Minister of the Interior and which are cross-border.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u22	Madam Secretary, it was interesting. I also remember those courses during my Law degree, given by Matthias Storme. That was always very interesting. I also remember, in particular, something that may have been mentioned, namely the comparison of laws, not only the debate on political culture but also on powers. In this respect, Germany has a number of interesting themes, especially since you also had lunch with the police. The police, like the judicial system for example, is a competence of the Länder. Important powers lie with the Länder in Germany. So that can only work inspiringly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u23	Madam Secretary, the civil inquiry has been completed for some time. We know that 19,000 attempts have been made to begin an answer. It was, of course, intended to do something with that. I therefore have a number of specific questions, also because things were going so badly at first and there was a lot of confusion. A number of adjustments have been made in this respect. For example, the order of questions was changed regularly, probably because there were not enough answers to the issues that came to the end. What changes have been made over the course of the six weeks that the survey ran? Why did these adjustments take place? How many unique people visited the platform? How many of them have registered? We have received these figures, but it also seems useful to me to know exactly what the distribution between Dutch, French and German speakers was like. Are there certain ideas or answers that have not been taken into account in the end? Can you explain this and clarify it further? How do you evaluate the communication campaign in the light of the number of participants? It was an expensive affair for only 19,000 participants. How do you evaluate the results of the survey? My final question concerns the processing of the results. Two candidates responded to the public tender. Which was selected, and on what criteria? When will the analysis be ready and the results will be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u24	First of all, I have some questions about the citizen questioning. I would like to know how to ensure that as many people as possible are involved. Secondly, I want to know what happens to the results. Thirdly, I wonder how it will be dealt with now. So how does it work for as many people as possible to participate? That can be done by making the inquiry known. The whole survey was an exercise of 2.1 million euros. Around EUR 1 million was foreseen for communication. We have requested the detailed figures on what exactly was spent for, and we have received them in the meantime. However, I leave the scoop to the Minister to explain them. I'll say something about it in the reply. So the results are now in. I have submitted written questions to you on this subject in good time. Minister Clarinval has already given me a partial answer to this and indicated that there would be additional information. However, I have not yet received it from him, nor from you, Madam Minister. That is why I felt obliged to put the previous written question orally. According to the Rules of Procedure, the question must be answered within a month, but that has not been the case. I read in Minister Clarinval's reply that 75,000 responses were given by about 19,000 people. Very few organisations participated, only two or four municipalities. I would like to know how many questions the people who have participated have specifically answered. If one divides the 75,000 answers among 19,000 people, one arrives at a rather low average number of answers. That is an understatement, because there are a number of stubborn people, including me, who have answered all the questions. There will have been those who registered, but did not answer any questions. That's why I'd like to have the detailed information. I also assume she's available in the meantime. I understand from the answer that the system was not designed to produce statistics in this direction, but given the fact that the question was submitted some time ago, it will have happened in the meantime. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the processing of the results. Mr Pas has also raised the question of how it will be dealt with now. In April, I asked you if the government contract would be okay. Then the answer was that the company that would certainly have found the semantic analysis in June and that the contract would have been awarded. In the media, Professor Sinardet said that was not yet the case. Has the public contract been awarded in the meantime? Was anyone found willing to make the analysis? Is it particularly clear when this will happen? This also fits in with the previous discussion. When you do an exercise, do it right. 19,000 people have registered. They all want to know what happens to their answer. They had heard that the analysis would follow shortly after the summer. At the start of the parliamentary year, we would get Professor Sinardet's report. We read in the media that that would be the end of the year at the earliest. I would like to make that clear. Has the public contract been awarded? When will the results be analysed? Are there any intermediate conclusions yet to be drawn? We like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u25	Minister, Minister, I have a number of comments on the statements made by Mrs Pas and Mr Loones, apart from my written question. Then I come to a number of points of interest and points of improvement that I have identified myself. Let us be honest, the chance that the N-VA Group and the Flemish Interest Group would evaluate the initiative positively was rather small in advance. Judgement had already been made before it began. Their criticism has, of course, gained some strength from the questioning itself. That's what I'll be back for later. This has not contributed to the success of the online search. There was also the online campaign of the N-VA as a flagship of this bias. I think Mr Loones is usually a very constructive colleague. With the advertisements on Google with a url that looked like the actual url, a countryforthefuture.Flanders, with which one ended up on a page of the N-VA criticizing the very colored survey, a deliberate sabotage, one still loses some credibility in the debate. The duty of an opposition is tooppose, but in that respect the democrat dropped. I do not think it is appropriate to launch such a campaign if people want to talk about the future of the country. Secondly, I think that a number of things can just be said out loud without tearing the whole thing down. In my opinion, the duration was a little short. Partly because of this, for example, the physical dialogue method could never be fully rolled out. That aspect could be dealt with differently. Participants in the survey were able to ask part questions or only fill in certain questions, but that was not very clear at the beginning, which made it particularly difficult for participants. At the launch, there was uncertainty about the parliamentary succession. I think that has played a part in the experience, in the appeal of the survey. That's homework for the Chamber again. So I listed the points I see, but I'm looking forward to your evaluation. I am also looking forward to using the dialogue method for groups and the deadline for the results report. If there is also a formal evaluation of the process under way, I would like to call for Parliament to have a say in this too, in a friendly way. The groups, including Mr Loones, were very interested in working with them. This involvement should also be given in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the platform A country for the future was closed on 5 June, after a six-week survey. At the request of several of you, we can provide you today with the first figures we have received from the platform manager, the FOD BOSA, on the participation of citizens in the federal level participation exercise. I shall first mention the figures on the participants. In total, 18,833 people have created an account on the platform, of which 14,515 have completed their social demographic profile after creating their account. Of those 14,515 people, 14,456 answered in their own name and 59 in the name of an organization they represent. Of the people who responded in their own name, the FOD BOSA gave the following geographical distribution: in the Flemish Region 8.955, in the Brussels-Capital Region 1.607 and in the Walloon Region 3.894. The breakdown by language is not available because this data was not requested from the socio-demographic data. We do not have this geographical spread for the 59 people who have responded in the name of an organisation. Of these 59 people, two have indicated that they participated as local government. The name of the organisation will not be communicated in order to respect the principle of anonymity. In addition, 137 paper versions of the citizen survey were requested by telephone via the call centre of the FOD BOSA. In total, almost 75,000 contributions were submitted during this survey, divided as follows: 71.650 answers were given to the challenges and 3.319 ideas were formulated for the six themes together. As a result, an average of four contributions were made per participant. The FOD BOSA, responsible for the platform, told us that the exact statistics on the number of people who answered one or more questions are not yet available. This indicator is not measured by default on the platform. An additional treatment by the FOD BOSA is therefore necessary. Of the 3.319 published ideas, 35 ideas for moderation were reported by participants. Of the 35 ideas reported, only seven were depublished because they do not comply with the code of conduct. You have asked us about the success or failure of this questioning. I would like to return to the context of this citizen survey. This is the first major citizen survey at Belgian level. It is the first time in Belgium's political history that all citizens are given the opportunity to express their views and to share their ideas on issues related to democratic renewal and institutional reform. As you know, it has been a relatively small group of political actors who have worked out successive state reforms since 1970. This participation exercise is an important precedent for the reforms that have been carried out without citizen consultation, which often gives the impression that there is a gap between reality in the field and constitutional texts. This often leads me not to tell you anymore that the people are not in favour of the decisions. This platform has thus succeeded in involving a larger group of citizens in the reflection on the seventh state reform, and that, best representative of the people, is already a great success. In addition, and for comparison, 18,955 ideas and 22,570 comments were collected on the European Commission's multilingual digital platform in the context of the Conference on the Future of Europe over almost one year, between 19 April 2021 and 9 May 2022 across Europe. I would like to take this opportunity to confirm to Mr Calvo that dialogue methods will continue to be accessible through the online platform. This content, drawn up by experts, was used for debate evenings, interactions in schools or in civil society. My colleague and I have had the opportunity to attend a series of debates. Mrs Pas, you are asking me about the adjustments made to the platform 'A country for the future'. The FOD BOSA, manager of the platform, has made several adjustments. At first it was decided to change the order of the themes every two weeks, this to allow rotation of the themes on the home page. In addition, the FOD BOSA and the consortium have made some improvements in terms of user-friendliness and accessibility. As an example, there was an improvement of navigation from the home page, an improvement of the color contrast for better readability, a clarification of the presentation of the themes and challenges and an emphasis on the contextualization of each theme, without making this mandatory. Many of you also had questions about assignment M 1134, regarding the semantic analysis and the treatments needed for the treatment of contributions. At the time of opening the tenders, it was found that two tenders had been submitted on 3 May 2022. In analysing these offers, FOD BOSA found that both offers were irregular. The order had therefore to be cancelled. A new assignment was launched immediately. The two Cabinets were informed about the situation following the publication of the new assignment by the FOD BOSA. With regard to this new contract, the opening of the tenders took place on 23 June 2022. Two tenders were submitted. These are currently being analysed by the Procurement Service of the FOD BOSA. For this reason, the timing of the treatment of the contributions had to be adjusted, as a result of the information provided by the FOD BOSA on this new assignment. Taking into account a standstill to be respected for the final award of this contract, the FOD BOSA hopes to be able to start this contract by the end of July at the latest. The execution period laid down in the specifications shall not exceed 10 weeks. This means that this task should be completed on 15 October 2022. Mr Loones, since the contributions have yet to be analysed, you will understand that it is not possible to respond to your request for the first possible results. Moreover, you asked us what would happen if no semantic analysis could take place. This question is not at this stage. The contract was re-launched and two tenders were submitted. However, I would like to point out that in the memo to the Council of Ministers of 30 April 2021, the FOD BOSA has committed itself to finding a tenderer for this semantic treatment. I have no doubt that the FOD BOSA will honour its commitment. As regards the delivery of the final report, after the analysis carried out by M1134Bis, the consortium responsible for preparing the final report will be able to start its work. The specifications of this contract shall not exceed 11 weeks before the final version of the final report is delivered. We are therefore aiming for a final report translated into the three national languages, which will be officially handed over to the federal government by January 2023 at the latest. Finally, as regards the evaluation of the exercise, Mr Calvo, it was agreed that at the end of the process, the Scientific Committee will draw up a report on the regularity and authenticity of the process, which it will communicate to the Minister for Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal. Technical and budgetary questions were also asked about communication. Mr Loones, on this point, I would like to confirm that there are two moments at the level of the communication campaign, namely during the interview itself and at the presentation of the final report on the survey. As I explained at the committee meeting on 4 May, the breakdown between these two moments is as follows: about 1 million including VAT for the first part, the six weeks, and about 5000 euro including VAT for the second part, devoted to the presentation of the final report. On 9 June, the FOD BOSA, who is responsible for the various public contracts for this project, informed me that 883.456.09 euros had been paid. As I also said at the committee meeting on 4 May, the FOD BOSA confirmed to me that the amount of the communication campaign was EUR 1,057,686,26 including VAT. In addition, the FOD BOSA reports that the total budget was broken down into 12 posts, of which I will give you the details through the document I will deliver to you and the President. So I will not go into the details. Finally, I would like to answer Mrs Pas's question about Bridgeneers' communication campaign. In particular, their strategy was to ask as many people as possible to surf the platform. For this purpose, a broad campaign was conducted on radio and television, while social media were mobilized to communicate to more specific target groups. I can give you concrete figures on this Bridgeneers campaign in a document that I will give to the President of the Commission. I also repeat that the communication strategy has not stopped with traditional channels of communication. Civil society, the academic world and local authorities were specifically involved through different mailings, presentations and contacts. There have been debate evenings at associations, universities or colleges. There were open letters, positions of association. Communication was an integral part of this. This initiative is a premiere, which was certainly not perfect, but which remains essential in the current context. We hope that such an initiative will strengthen the democratic system by encouraging dialogue between the elected and the people. But these participatory or even deliberative exercises in the Chamber will have to be repeated in order to anchor the culture of participatory democracy in our habits. We see it in neighbouring countries, this requires time and a succession of different and coherent initiatives to strengthen the modernisation of our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u27	Minister, I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer. It will be up to me to understand once in your answer 'civil burial' rather than 'civil interrogation'. I find it very interesting that you have distributed figures on the scope of the communication campaign. It is said, for example, that 6 million people have been reached via television, almost 7 million by radio, that on Twitter 278 people have clicked on the website, that via TikTok 1 million people have been reached, and that 60,000 young people have clicked on the website. Then I can only make one evaluation, given the particularly sad number of people who created an account. I assumed more than 19,000 registered. You say today that it is just over 18,000 accounts. It is therefore only possible to conclude that what we had said at the outset was that the people had absolutely no message to the citizen questioning. A longer period of time, Mr Calvo, or an improvement in colour contrasts will not remedy this if one has completely lost the belief that politics will actually start something with it. You may call it historical or give the name you want, but you can only see that, unfortunately, we have been right across the board. We were, indeed, critical in advance, Mr Calvo, but it is a very short turn to turn it now so that the complete failure of the citizen search is due to the opposition. I agree with you, Minister, that the culture of participation should be given a new impetus, but I am convinced that this is not the case with such citizen interviews. By barely participating, citizens have also clearly shown that they are not interested in the questioning of citizens. If we really want to change the culture of participation, we must, of course, make real citizen participation work, for example, by allowing referenda instead of organising such citizen interviews, but you already know that opinion. On the basis of the evaluation we had already made on the basis of the previous figures 19,000 registrations............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u28	Mr Calvo, Flanders is indeed the country of the future. This will also become clear to all those who are serious about this issue. I do not accept you saying that we deliberately sabotaged this exercise. You have missed the many meetings of the committee if that is your analysis. Mr Pas and myself were present every time. I remember a committee meeting where I was the only one who asked dozens of questions. We have therefore made every possible suggestion from the opposition, but they have all been thrown into the trash. Nothing has been done with our suggestions about building up, with our suggestion of hearing people and exchanging thoughts with them, with our suggestion of being able to see the system. None of that was allowed. Every possible proposal we have made has simply not been followed. And you pretend it's not a success because of a so-called sabotage. The fact that it was not a success can be written entirely on your own account. It's not the first time we've had such a big civil interview. There has already been such a great questioning at the time of the Verhofstadt government. That interview also went on for six weeks. That's when 400,000 people answered. Here you communicate that 19,000 people have responded, but actually only 14,000 have replied. After registration, respondents also had to complete their profile even further and only then could they answer the questions. Now it turns out that only 14,500 people have responded, not even 19,000. That's almost 5,000 off. That's another 25 percent less. That is a particularly embarrassing number, while some 12.9 million people have heard the publicity on radio and television. On top of that, another 6 million people have seen an ad online. Of those 6 million, only 484,000 people have clicked on your website. Of those 484,000, only 14,000 took part. That's 2.9 %. So you haven't convinced anyone to go to your website. Then 97% of the people who did land on the website immediately decided not to participate. This deserves a very thorough analysis of what has gone wrong. We had the promise that we would see the expert committee, but we should also see the people who created that website. If 97% of the people who come on the website decide to leave within half a second and do not register, or do not register completely, then there is something more than thoroughly wrong. These figures are blatantly embarrassing. In April we also tabled dozens of questions on public procurement in relation to the processing of results. Mrs Verlinden replied that the public contract for the processing of data would certainly be settled at the beginning of June. That would now be the case at the end of July. In any case, I wish you every success, so that the answers, the analysis and the report will be in Parliament on 15 October, as you have announced. Much more important, however, is that this is also made public, so that the people who did go through the devilish procedure to finally answer at least find out exactly what happened to their answers. Minister, I would also like to thank you for pointing out that seven questions were taken offline by the moderator. That's not much. It is important that people communicate correctly, especially in these times. I do care to get more details about the 35 questions that have moderated and the seven questions that have been taken offline. We will ask a number of new parliamentary questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u29	I'd like to play ping-pong with my colleague Loones first. Nor is the opposition sufficiently convincing that the result of the citizen search should be assigned to them. I certainly wouldn't have said that. I would like to repeat that I find the campaign your party has launched particularly regrettable. She is at odds with your parliamentary expertise and commitment. I want to maintain that criticism. One buys a URL that is very similar to the URL of the survey, to campaign around it. Of course, the questioning may be criticized, but the information that was made available there was not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u30	Then what wasn't correct? Show me what was wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u31	That was a very tendentious evaluation of the citizen survey back then. Especially with the fact that you buy and advertise that URL, you deceive people who are looking for the survey. I don't like that. That is my sincere conviction. Minister, I hear you announce that a scientific committee will produce a report on the regularity of online searches. I think it's gonna take more. Especially when one wants to take steps and learn, I think that an evaluation with a number of formal improvement and action points is the minimum. I still want to accept that pioneering work is not always easy, but if one also wants to learn something, one must dare to evaluate and list a number of points. This can also contribute to future exercises. It is good to involve parliamentary groups that show their interest in the evaluation, if necessary through a quick and efficient written method. For example, these contributions can also be included in an evaluation report. I would like to insist on such an evaluation. For me, what can be part of this evaluation, in addition to the points I raised, is the amount of money allocated to communication. I am not against communication, I believe that such an initiative should also be made public, because it is ambitious, but it is about a great deal of money for communication. That also makes the exercise vulnerable. As far as I am concerned, it may be with a more modest communication budget, if this is repeated in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u32	Minister Verlinden mentioned this briefly in her answer to the first question. Apparently, this question wasn't bundled. A report was made of the Joint Committee on State Reform. There wasn't really a conclusion. My question is whether you have received that report. In the meantime, we have been consulted in the corridors by the chairmen of that committee, Mrs D'Hose and Mrs Tillieux. They were wristing whether it would be possible to have an exchange of views or a debate in Parliament on the results of that committee, with both of you. We haven't heard from them since. I would therefore like to know whether you have been contacted and when that debate is planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u33	Mr Loones, I have noted that the Joint Committee on Chamber and Senate, which was set up at the beginning of June last year to prepare the discussions on a new state reform, has completed its work. Of course, I have taken note of the reports that have been published, in particular those on the first and second sections on health, energy, environment and climate. It goes without saying that I will read the third part very carefully as soon as it is published. This report is very useful and is in addition to the various steps taken by the government, such as the fact sheet drawn up by the administrations or the setting up of thematic working groups. This will be very useful for political dialogue. I am always open to a debate with my colleague, but it is the Chamber that has to organise its work. And then, of course, I'll participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u34	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 55028672C, on GRECO and questions 55029231C and No. 55029232C, about the Cabinets, by moving to another round of oral questions and discussing them after the holiday, given that we have a full agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u35	I do not see any problem in that we are late. Mr Minister, I therefore propose that you turn to item 8 of our agenda and to question No 55029233C by Mr Loones. I would point out that, given the absence of Mr Roberto D'Amico, question No 55028853C becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u36	Minister, during last Thursday's plenary session a few questions were asked to the Minister for the Interior about the security challenges in the municipality of Sint-Jans-Molenbeek. The PS then came up with a story that the CD&V completely opposed, after which the MR and Ecolo claimed other things. So that was very interesting and I wondered what answer Minister Verdeinden would give to those questions. In her reply, she called for a merger of the Brussels police zones as a solution to the problems. Despite the fact that I agree, I find it remarkable that a minister responsible for the police and for institutional reforms takes that view. I assume that she will not only express her own ambition, but will have questioned herself within the government. After all, it also indicated that it would like to grant additional powers to Brussels Prime Minister Vervoort in an interim step. Have you been consulted on this? When exactly? Can we get an overview of what's been discussed? What are the plans in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u37	Mr Loones, as Minister Verlinden repeated at last week's plenary session, the government agreement provides for a strengthening of the responsibility of the Brussels Prime Minister and a more integrated policy between the zones, as well as the strengthening of the presence of the proximity police, where necessary. Specific powers have been conferred on the Sixth State Reform, which can still be improved after the experience gained in practice in recent years. You know, moreover, that the Committee on the Interior has devoted a lot of hearings to the issue of the merger of police zones. The coalition agreement goes in the right direction by proposing a reinforcement of the unit of command. The merger of police zones can also be a good thing in other places in the country. The police areas in Brussels have already set up many partnerships and common services. This dossier, as other dossiers mentioned in the institutional part of the coalition agreement, falls within the competence of Minister Verlinden, who has worked out a solution in accordance with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic839x.u38	Madam President, Jong MR is in favour of the merger of police zones, but the mother party MR is not. You are throwing the term "merging," but you are actually in favour of strengthening the role, and so you support Minister Verdeinden's proposal to the government. However, the merger of police zones does not support you. You did not say that, but we all understood that very well. I hope that the CD&V MEPs have also heard that message. We have just been talking about strengthening confidence in democracy for an hour. The Open Vld leader in the Flemish Parliament writes books about concrete and about the fact that politicians cannot constantly make all kinds of promises that they do not keep. Minister Verdonden might be able to read that message. She has created expectations in plenary which we would like to see fulfilled. We will therefore have to take further political action in this regard.
