ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 2.20 p.m. and chaired by Ms. Valerie Van Peel. The meeting was opened at 2.20 p.m. and chaired by Valerie Van Peel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u3	Minister of the Federal Government at the opening of the session: At the opening of the meeting, the Minister of the Federal Government: Zakia Khattabi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's and tomorrow's meetings. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's and tomorrow's meetings. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u5	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteurs, Mr Daniel Senesael and Mr Franky Demon, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u6	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2531/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2531/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u7	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u8	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u9	Koen Metsu, Sigrid Goethals, Yngvild Ingels, Peter Buysrogge, Joy Donné, Björn Anseuw, Wim Van der Donkt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u10	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Platteau, referred to the written report. Mr Metsu has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u11	Madam President, I hope, first of all, that you will excuse me if I wish to intervene briefly on this point. All madness on a stick, it is of course a serious matter to which we give our full support. In a recent judgment, the Constitutional Court found that an automatic professional ban on surveillance agents for accidental beatings and injuries in the context of a traffic accident would be unfounded. We took a legislative initiative on this matter some time ago. We have written a bill that is now also contained in the Minister's bill. This also included the community guards. The only difference between the bill and the bill is the date of submission. I am certainly pleased that our initiative has been picked up. We said earlier that sometimes we turn out to be the bellows to spark the fire in the Vivaldi government. If this proves to be our role, we will be happy to fulfill it. In the meantime, we'll assign the government's gun factor to the opposition. So that's not what we're doing. The only thing that matters is that the work is done effectively. Now that I have the chance, I'd like to ask a question. Something strange happened yesterday. We were working on a better statute for the paramedics who are not firefighters. That was a resolution from our hand which was welcomed by the majority at its first discussion, but then voted away without motivation. We found that very strange, since it concerns a small but very important group of people. These are aid workers who give the best of themselves on a daily basis and the budgetary impact of the improved status would be very small. I would therefore ask that this text be taken over as well in all collegiality. You can delete my name and put another one under it, as long as it happens. That profession is anxious about this and I do not want them to be the victims of the opposition taking this initiative. That is my speech, Madam President. We will, of course, support this bill because we are on the same wavelength.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u12	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u13	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2532/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2532/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u14	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u15	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mrs Cornet, referred to the written report. Mr Donné spoke in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u16	Madam President, we are in favour of a specific tax system for the remuneration of association activities, and we think it is a good initiative to introduce a new regime after the destruction of the Constitutional Court. In our view, however, and in the view of the Council of State, this new regulation does not solve the problems that led to the destruction. It remains a complex regime, which does not solve the inequalities and unconstitutionality of the previous regime. We will therefore abstain in the vote on the draft, the objective of which is our approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u17	The Law of 18 July 2018 provided for a tax favor regime for fees for association activities. On 23 April 2020, following complaints by trade unions and self-employed organisations, the Constitutional Court annulled that regime for breach of the principle of equality. Next, the law of 24 December 2020 introduced a temporary arrangement, a law that expired on 31 December 2021, now almost four months ago. The draft law before us aims to establish a definitive regime. However, the Council of State has expressed a number of reservations about its constitutional nature and points in particular to a breach of the principle of equality. We therefore fear that these objections may lead to new proceedings before the Constitutional Court, with all the consequences for legal certainty. The basic principle is that the benefits for association are exempted from social contributions and that these income tax allowances are taxed as a diverse income at 20%, albeit with a cost margin of 50%, which brings the real tax rate to 10%. The ratio legis for this special scheme is the level of the marginal tax burden: from an average income, the taxpayer is already in the highest share, plus patronial and personal RSZ contributions. Therefore, in the explanatory memorandum on page 7, we read: "Stopping the progressive taxation of income from association activities should prevent the tax burden on such income from being a brake on the inclusion of such socially relevant functions." There is a great consensus across party boundaries that there is a need to cut the number of special arrangements, but this draft law just perpetuates one. The real problem to be solved is the excessive marginal tax burden that already applies from an average income. Moreover, the problem has not been solved in substance. This is even explained in detail in points 7.1 to 7.6 of the opinion of the Council of State. In particular, the consideration that the remuneration is only incidental is considered insufficient to justify the tax distinction. Nor is it sufficient to consider that this would be a limited number of activities. I will not quote the point 7.6. You can find that for yourself. Our group has another comment on Article 6. That article regulates the reimbursement obtained by students. In the case of an income from student labour, income up to a certain ceiling is not taken into account to determine the sum of means of subsistence. The means of subsistence are the criterion for determining whether or not a child is dependent. The exceeding of the maximum amount of resources means that a child is no longer dependent. This can, of course, have an important fiscal impact on parents. In committee, our group abstained on all the articles, except Article 1, because the draft law does not provide any legal basis. The real problem, the excessive marginal tax burden, is not solved. The aim is to remedy this by means of all kinds of deductions and exemption rules. The tax fare is thus maintained, despite the broad consensus across various parties that it should be phased out. There is also legal uncertainty. I refer to the opinions of the Council of State. The Flemish Interest Group will therefore abstain from voting on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u18	The present draft law aims to regulate the fiscal aspect of the association work. This is an important piece, because in this way a sustainable solution will be developed for the many associations active in Belgium. The role of associations and volunteers in Belgium is invaluable and priceless. At present, an estimated 140,000 non-profit organisations and more than 1 million volunteers are active. The associations play an important and essential social role in all our villages, neighbourhoods, municipalities, cities and streets every day. This was also confirmed during the corona crisis in several ways. For the CD&V Group, a strong civil society and a strong, resilient association life is therefore an essential element. Association life plays an essential role in many social areas, such as sport, culture, education and youth. To run feathers, there's a lot of work to be done. Many associations and volunteers are unimportant. However, an uninteresting commitment does not mean that some volunteers cannot be compensated. The voluntary allowance is intended for expenses incurred and has long and traditionally been known in Belgium. It's important that it's settled in. However, in recent years there has also been an increasing demand for a framework for semi-paid jobs, inter alia through the possibility of so-called additional jobs. So we had to find a sustainable alternative to the destroyed scheme and the tax regime is now ahead. The new regime should not impose too much financial and administrative burden and is also accompanied by a digital application. We must indeed take a step forward in this respect. For associations and volunteers, much can still be digitised in many areas. We have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. It is a good thing that this is already being fully used for the work of associations. In short, the design offers a solution with the necessary digital applications for an important tax demand for our essential association life. The CD&V Group will therefore fully support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u19	Madam President, the text before us today is somewhat the tail of the comet. In fact, this is the tax component of a system whose first text, dealing with the social aspect, was submitted to us here in plenary on 10 March. My colleague and Comrade Gaby Colebunders spoke and made the fundamental criticisms that we are expressing with regard to this text. I will therefore be able to be short enough without, however, avoiding a rapid history of this measure. In fact, three times, the government introduces discrimination. We discriminate once, we discriminate twice, we discriminate three times, and it's still a three bis with the tax component. The first discrimination is the law of 18 July 2018. It is a law that has introduced associative work, and therefore a system of work that is derogating from the rules of labour law for activities carried out in the field of sport, socio-cultural and artistic. This law was annulled by the Constitutional Court because it created a difference in treatment between workers who carry out activities under this new status of associative work and workers who work under an employment contract. As a result, the former were completely excluded from the scope of a range of laws which constitute the bulk of labour law. This is an exclusion without reasonable justification. The Constitutional Court has therefore broken this text and we understand it, because it is really an attack on social and labour law. It is not surprising on the part of right-wing parties, but it is more so on the part of left-wing parties. The second stage and the second is the law of 24 December 2020. Since the first law was annulled by the Constitutional Court, the second law reintroduces voluntary work and does not take into account any criticisms made by the Constitutional Court. So we come back with a copy-paste of the first law. Fortunately, this law had a vocation to be only temporary, since it had an effect only in the year 2021. Let us now turn to the Third Law and the Third Discrimination. This is the law of 17 March 2022, which was submitted to us last March. My colleague Gaby Colebunders reminded the House that this text had been adopted against the opinion of the FGTB. For reasons, once again, we are part of a framework that derogates from social law, from labour legislation. Somewhere, this social legislation is being undermined. The coaches, coaches, referees, conductors, directors who are subject to this particular regime deserve, in reality, the same social protection as their colleagues who are subject to regular employment contracts. Associative workers are not entitled to a guaranteed wage, maternity allowance, paid leave. Worse still, today, social rights are being taken away from them. This is the reality of the social aspect of the text which was voted on in plenary on 10 March. In fact, what is the fundamental problem? The problem is that the sports, socio-cultural and artistic sectors are not sufficiently subsidized. This is how we found a way to assign them a social and tax sub-status. That is how the text was adopted. The tax component follows the same logic; it is of the same quality as the social component. The text before us today also creates differences in treatment. There are those who have a standard, regular employment contract, whose income will be taxed as professional income. And there are those who are subject to this particular regime whose income will be taxed as miscellaneous income. This unjustified difference is reflected in a very strict opinion of the Council of State that, once again, the government does not take into account the criticisms that had already been made in 2018 by the Constitutional Court. The opinion of the Council of State concludes by expressing "a serious reservation concerning the conformity of the regime in draft with the principle of constitutional equality". So the government and the majority throw the Constitution in the trash and create new discrimination. That is why we will not support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u20	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u21	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2569/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2569/4) The bill has 8 articles. The draft law contains 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u22	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u23	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Verhaert, referred to the written report. Mr Roggeman has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity to exchange views on lottery policy. We are doing far too little in this plenary. This subject is not very often dealt with and is rarely topical. That is wrong, because with two billion sales a year, the National Lottery is one of the largest public companies in this country, which also weighs heavily when it comes to the budget. The background to today's lottery policy is far from rosy. The National Lottery has a duty to channel the gambling market, to focus on existing players and not to attract new customers for the gambling market. However, the monitoring of this ban on market expansion has collapsed in recent years. Today we see a very aggressive expansion policy at the National Lottery. Every year the record figures in terms of turnover in gambling are broken. The National Lottery is attracting more and more people for increasing amounts. There are therefore advertising campaigns that seek the limits of the ethically acceptable: 'Become scandalously rich!', "For extra cash? Play CA$H." That's not ethical anymore. We also see a large expansion of the number of sales channels, with the Lottery Club, a promo policy aimed at young families, more slot machines, more lottery shops and more online sales. That's worrying. In addition, in the management contract, the State Secretary's National Lottery is commissioned to make more gambling advertising through an offensive advertising policy, through festivities following 580 years of lottery, through the obligation for receiving charities to enhance the support of the National Lottery and by making more publicity and advertising for drawing games in general. More gambling advertising is the thread. At the same time, the same management contract weakens all the ethical and deontological processes that the National Lottery once owned. It's a worrying evolution. Each party in this hemisphere says it is in favour of the betrayal of gambling, but that is mainly lip service. After all, this government's policy encourages gambling. It is right to be strict with regard to the privatised gambling sector, in so far as it competes with the National Lottery, but that strict approach to gambling disappears like snow to the sun when it comes to the National Lottery itself. They are willing to look at problematic practices of the National Lottery, even if the legal channeling obligation is clearly violated. Apparently gambling is much less problematic when the proceeds flow to the state treasury. Then much, if not everything, can be done. It is in that administrative context that we need to see this bill. What do we see in the text before us? The National Lottery requires more power over potentially competitive initiatives. This majority gives no criticism and gives its administrative powers willingly. The law of 1851 basically outlaws lotteries, with the exception of the National Lottery itself and the lotteries granted by the government. It is that last licence that is transferred from the FPS Home Affairs to the National Lottery itself. In other words, the lottery company today has to judge the other allowed lotteries, the only other initiatives that have the potential to sell off the national lottery's market share. The State will thus become a judge and a party at the same time, which is far from healthy. Secretary of State Mahdi has motivated this by saying that the expertise would already be present at the National Lottery and that this is more appropriate administratively, but that is not true. Since the law of 1851, these files have been dealt with by the Home Office. That expertise has been there for 170 years. If the majority gets what they want, they'll get rid of it today. The fact that the National Lottery does the accounting for the government's ratification does not in itself change that. In addition, this bill perpetuates the artificial distinction in the protection of players between the lotteries and the games of chance. That too is worrying. Both the lotteries and games of chance are potentially addictive and yet the EPIS list of games of chance that protects the players from potentially problematic game behaviour is not extended to the lotteries. A parallel system is maintained and strengthened here, but a gambling addiction is of course a gambling addiction in all contexts. Unfortunately, this is not reflected in the policy, which means that a player can still go to the National Lottery, even if he is excluded from the games of chance. The prevention of gambling addiction is subordinate here to the financial interests of the government, which is no longer ethical. Moreover, the draft law also provides for the exclusion of players and deletes a provision which provides that the National Lottery must also use its revenue from the public service for public service tasks. I wonder why, and I also asked the Secretary of State. Is it intended that the proceeds from the lottery sale will now be used for and reinvested in private commercial gambling? That wouldn't be okay. However, I was not allowed to receive an answer to that question in committee. I present them again in plenary today, but I have little illusions. In any case, it is a bad step if public funds were to be commercially reinvested by a public body. In recent decades, we have seen very bad examples of this in the other public companies, not to mention the railways. In the case of SNCB, hundreds of million euros of public funds have been lost in recent decades. Today, that practice is forbidden by law. It would therefore be very problematic if we were to re-introduce them here today by law for another public undertaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u25	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u26	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2380/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2380/3) The title in French has been amended by the commission in "draft law concerning the amendment of the law of 19 April 2002 on the rationalisation of the operation and management of the National Lottery." Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill concerning the amendment of the Act of 19 April 2002 on the rationalisation of the operation and management of the National Lottery." The bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u27	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u28	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur is Mrs Vanrobaeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u29	I refer to the written report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u30	Mr Van der Donkt has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u31	Madam President, at the committee meeting we voted against this draft law amending various provisions on transitional and survivors' pensions, with the exception of some linguistic amendments to Articles 7, 8 and 9. We have reason to do so. Apparently, there are a number of technical corrections on the basis of a judgment of the Constitutional Court, yes, 2014 which raises the question of why this adjustment is now urgently needed, regardless of the major pension reform envisaged by this government, but which has not yet come to fruition. Remediation of existing legislation is a political choice, which we believe is again the wrong one, such as lowering the thresholds for the survivor's pension for civil servants. In the principle of correcting unequal treatment between beneficiaries, we fully agree, but this naturally requires objective criteria. This draft law, on the other hand, is going in the wrong direction and is taking the flight ahead. A few months ago, the transitional allowance was relaxed again, while the government agreement was aimed at increasing the level of activity. I believe, together with my group, as well as with other specialists outside this hemisphere (but they may not have understood it all correctly), that this arrangement goes against the spirit of the government agreement: it is precisely in a period of acute labour market needs that some thresholds for transitional benefits and survivors' pensions will be lowered. It would also have been possible, as the opposition suggests, to create a legal framework for survival pensions and transitional benefits which would just lead more people at work to the labour market instead of relaxing the thresholds for transitional and survivors' pensions, which is what we are doing here. Moreover, that is a second point which I would like to make here, and this draft law does not solve any of the differences in the systems of survivors' pensions between those civil servants and those of employees and self-employed persons. I see that Mrs Vanrobaeys, whom I thank for her report, wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u32	Mr Van Der Donkt, I don't understand why you're talking about relaxing again. It's just like the last government to tighten up the whole system. In committee we have also had hearings on mourning leave. Several people have said that the transitional allowance as it existed before enlargement - after all, this is a technical follow-up to a principle that we have already approved - is not enough. You say this can get people to work. Different case-law has shown that the previous reform in which it was limited was contrary to the standstill principle. People who worked part-time in residential care centres wanted to work more but could not get a full-time contract in those residential care centres. Because of the flexible hours they had, they could not work part-time with another employer either. In that sense, I do not understand your comment. If one has such a setback that one loses one's partner, one should be able to count on a government that assists and protects you, especially when there are children. That's what we did with the transitional allowance. I think we have corrected something that was far too strict. So I don't understand why you're saying relaxing again. I wonder why you say that. I also wonder how you would organise this employment. This is about supporting people who lose partners at a young age. I think at that point there is a need for a government that supports the people and gives them enough time to continue that grieving process with the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u33	Mrs Vanrobaeys, I am glad you made that remark. Of course, we are not antisocial or have no cold heart for the people who find themselves in such a situation, should you have inferred that from my speech. That is something I wish to contradict. However, the N-VA Group believes that further relaxation of the survivor's pension is not the right solution to help those who end up in such a situation. This sends the wrong message to those people who, of course, deserve support. For this purpose, I refer to the coalition agreement, which focuses on increasing the level of activity to 80%. The measure in question, as well as measures taken in other cases, is contrary to that principle. Instead of convincing people that working can be a good thing, even when dealing with personal problems, you are doing the opposite. This runs counter to an active labour market policy. A structural, constructive proposal, as announced in the coalition agreement, remains to date. Here and there we get some points from the coalition agreement which are very popular and seem sympathetic to the people, but there has never been any thought about their funding. You can continue to spend money, and your constituents and victims will continue to keep all kinds of promises, which may not be affordable afterwards, or will have to be paid by those who are now making efforts to continue to pay for the solidarity that is important in our society. In the long run, you will break the balance between solidarity and the people who work, and then you will come home from a bald journey, I believe. I fear that people will then find that your policy, which is perhaps well-intentioned and which we can support in principle, if it is not funded will ultimately prove to be unfausse bonne idée. It will then be noted that you are actually pursuing an anti-social policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u34	Mr Van der Donkt, you are, of course, opening up the debate to the global pension reform. I can only say that the government agreement also stated that the transitional allowance would be evaluated and reviewed. We have done so now. The signals from all those young widows and widowers went straight to our hearts and so we have taken measures to support them. There are people who work part-time and who want to work full-time, but who do not get that contract. You say that we do not have an activating policy. I can only say that, as a result of the Labour Deal, the government has said that part-time contracts should be published earlier so that the people working part-time can better define their agenda. They may then have a chance to work part-time elsewhere with another employer. Steps are therefore being taken forward in this area. With regard to global pension reform and its financing, I am, of course, looking forward to Minister Lalieux's proposal. In terms of resources, however, we do differ. I think the ageing of the population is a good thing. There are funds to fund them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u35	I said at the beginning that we will vote against, not because we are an anti-party, but precisely because of the funding. I think it is very good that good promises are being made to the citizens, but our group is still hungry about the fundamental pension reform. It's been promised to the voters, to everyone. I note that we are dealing very fragmentaryly here and that we are actually only handing out money to our own electorate, but we are not making sure that this can be financed. As Minister Lalieux described it, it is a political choice. So read: we will have to raise taxes. The people who are currently working will have to pay for this. At the same time, it is disconnected, despite the fact that the government agreement makes it very clear that the in-depth pension reform must be linked to labour market reform and to raising the level of employment to 80%. At this point nothing has yet been achieved by this government. On the contrary, we are simply taking measures to ensure that the inactive, cruelly said, are pampered, while those who work effectively are always burdened more heavily. That is why, despite a number of provisions that we can agree to, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u36	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u37	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2564/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2564/3) The bill has 16 articles. The draft law has 16 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u38	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u39	Mr De Roover, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u40	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Vanrobaeys. We are already at the fourth or fifth item on the agenda, and for the first time we have had a speech from the majority. I mean that. I very much appreciate that, because there is a piece of substantive debate here, although not with much attention from some, which I also regret. There are a lot of walkways, but apparently not enough to catch all the conversations. The hemisphere is actually becoming a big kindergarten class, with few preschoolers present, so I would like to say that I really am grateful to Mr Vanrobaeys, because she wanted to have a piece of substantive debate. I am addressing colleagues and the group chairmen of the majority. As an exception, we have a Wednesday meeting, but we have already warned against it: these meetings are very few to attract attention to the political staff; the few who attend these meetings usually pay little attention to the debates; there is hardly any debate, because we are going through the agenda as if there is a reception at 5 p.m., where we will probably go to the bar in large numbers together. This is not an incentive for parliamentary work. I would like to address my colleagues, because Rule 40, which is purely a regulation, states that a quorum must be obtained before we can continue the work. If I were to rely on the Rules of Procedure, which I do not, Madam President-in-Office, I would have to ask for the sitting to be suspended for 60 minutes, in order to enable the majority to find sufficient people who are prepared to take part in this sitting. I say that with the communication that I will not ask that question, but with the friendly question to the majority colleagues to have the debate here and not to wait for a few people from the opposition to have said something to be able to leave the premises afterwards and to have some people come here, even if it is on Wednesday and even if there is no vote later. I do not rule out asking for a quorum in the future if we are to continue to see parliamentary work taking place in these sad circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u41	Madam President, Mr De Roover, if I may, I would like to react. Out of respect for a wide range of colleagues who are not present in plenary, acknowledge that many of them are occupied in committee both by questions and by hearings. It's factual. This is the case for my group as well as for the majority or all the political groups present here. I'm supposed to be on the Health Committee all afternoon. Out of respect for them, we still have to remind him. Indeed, if they are absent, it is not because they are under their duvet. They're also busy at work. On the other hand, where I join Mr De Roover, it is on the fact that, when justified, we can obviously hold an additional plenary session on Wednesday. He is indeed quite right. Since some texts require longer debates, it is both more respectful for staff and more effective to hold debates during the day rather than to spend the night of Thursday to Friday for pleasure if the plenary meeting is only held on Thursdays. Mr De Roover, you are right and it was discussed very quickly at the Conference of Presidents at noon. But I think that in next week's Conference of Presidents, we absolutely need to go back to the way in which and within what framework we can justify holding a second plenary which is disrupting the work here, because we are in a few. We're going from place to place. But it also disrupts committee work because it is not possible to organize committee work in the same way. Questions may take place but this poses a problem for all other work. I hope that both the majority and the opposition will make it possible to organize the work in a more efficient and relevant way for our debates, for parliamentarians and also for the staff of the House. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u42	That was also the summary of the debate in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u43	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u44	Madam President, it is not because I am expected in committee that I refer to the written report, but it is because I think it is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u45	Mr Depooster has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u46	Madam President, in view of the comments made by the previous speakers, I expect a fascinating debate on this draft law. Our group will be abstaining in the vote because, after we made some very clear and well-founded comments in committee and after we did some study work in the Easter recess, we still believe that the draft law is not ready to be put to the vote. There are very good things in the design, but at the same time it excels in vagueness and many issues still need to be settled in a royal decision. In addition, this is too crazy for words, as some provisions already apply, since this already entered into force on 28 January 2022. The Minister indicated in committee that the draft law was delayed by the fact that the FAGG, the pharmaceutical agency, had too much work due to the corona crisis, which prevented it from taking all the arrangements. The FAGG is now assigned additional tasks relating to the distribution and administration of veterinary medicinal products. How is it possible for an organisation, which was clearly shown during the corona crisis that the organisation chart is not optimal and that its operation is not optimal, to be assigned additional tasks without an audit? That is why we had again tabled an amendment in committee with a view to an in-depth audit of the FAGG. But the vivaldimate majority voted that away again. I hope that we will be able to take pride in optimising the operation, all the more so because a week before Easter recess both this draft law and the draft law regulating the cooperation between the FAGG and the Luxembourg services on the distribution of medicinal products were adopted, with additional work in the basket of the FAGG, without considering carefully the functioning of the organisation. This brings us once again to the inevitable conclusion that the debate has been going on for some time now that the Vivaldi government is opting for a large and heavily taxed government. Instead of investigating where it can downsize and assign certain tasks of an organisation like the FAGG in a different way, it simply puts a man in it. It was made very clear by the Minister: additional men are being recruited to carry out these tasks. What's a real problem, colleagues? The vets were ignored in this design. I think that is absolutely special. When we raised this in committee, the Minister replied that the necessary advice was sought and that the stakeholders were consulted. It is quite surprising, however, that on 15 April there was no reply from the services to the letter of the Order of Veterinarians expressing concerns about the draft law, while the legislation also requires that new legislation on the practice of veterinary medicine and the administration of veterinary medicinal products should be requested from the Supreme Council of Veterinarians. Minister, you often repeat that your cabinet is engaged in consultations. I have often called on you to propose the opinions for the sake of transparency in Parliament. You don't think that's necessary, of course we do. I have a glimpse of exactly what the discussion you had on the draft bill was about. Well, that turns out to be a webinar that lasted an hour. In full summer recess the veterinarians were given five days to respond to the message that was given. That is, of course, not consultation; that is not good governance. We believe that before such far-reaching legislation is brought to Parliament for approval, at least respect for the profession, the veterinary surgeons, is necessary. Mr Minister, we also discussed the reorganisation of company management in committee. That still needs to be settled through KB. We very much hope that you will be able to discuss and work together with the veterinary surgeons, who will eventually have to implement the law, together with the formulation of farm guidance in a movement. I come to my final point, which is why we are tabling an amendment in plenary today. In committee, I have said twice, at the two readings of the draft, that we really have a problem with restricting the therapeutic freedom of the veterinarian. Veterinarians are scientifically trained and seriously trained people who know very well how pharmacology works. They are in a six-year university education. However, the proposed legislation does not allow them to determine the time limit or dosage of a given therapy. That's a real problem. Minister, you are defending the fact that this is a European regulation, but veterinary organisations throughout Europe have indicated that there is no good practice. Possible effects are animal suffering or incorrect use of antibiotics and medicines. We therefore insist that this amendment be tabled in plenary and that it be supported by the majority. Mr Minister, I would like to read out the text of our amendment. We ask for a new article 42/1 in the draft law, in which we state: "Despite the provisions of Regulation 2019/6 and this law, veterinarians should be able to maintain their therapeutic freedom to prescribe, use or administer medicinal products to the maximum extent possible." More specifically, we mean that dThe veterinarian should be able to decide when a particular animal should be given a particular medicine. That can be done by veterinarians in their honour and conscience, and they are trained to do so. Why else are pharmacology and toxicology still taught to veterinary surgeons in training? If veterinarians only have to carry out what the manufacturer states in the package leaflet, the scientific knowledge of those training parts is superfluous. You are actually undermining the scientific understanding of a very important profession in your own country. We are very concerned about this, Minister. We also wonder how the other European Member States, wherever such legislation is implemented, will deal with it. Is therapeutic freedom being curtailed there, too? The signals we are getting are that they would not be. It would be a pity if the hands of veterinarians in our country were to be scientifically cut off, while a different dosage and a different time limit for the treatment of certain animals would be allowed across the border. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to call for our amendment to be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u47	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to explain our voting behaviour. I will not add many new aspects, but I would like to explain some of this. We will abstain as we did in the committee. We stand by our view that if in 106 articles 426 times are delegated to the King, that is still a few times too much. This also indicates that this draft law is closely linked and that, despite the fact that it had to be completed by the end of January, it is not ready at all. The draft law is more like a Swiss cheese with big holes than a well-considered and well-thought-out bill. You expect us to give you a blank cheque. That sounds familiar to us. The King shall determine the procedures for suspension. The King determines the payment procedures. The King shall appoint the statutory staff. The King shall decide in which cases a veterinary medicinal product should only be administered by a veterinarian. That's what the King is called 426 times. In short, one cannot think of it as crazy or the King or the government decides it. In committee, you referred to the report - which is necessary in view of the need for flexibility in legislative work. It is sometimes necessary to do so effectively. On 106 articles, however, 426 delegates seem to us just a little too often to talk about'sometimes'. For the Flemish interest, this is for the umpteenth time the outing of this so-called difficult Parliament. That also sounds familiar in the ears and is more and more common. I therefore continue to ask myself why veterinarians cannot decide for themselves whether or not off-label use is necessary in certain cases. Aren't vets par excellence the experts on the subject? Have they not been trained to make such decisions? I repeat that during the corona crisis for general practitioners it was not allowed to prescribe medicines off-label while they are the experts. Let veterinarians decide how to heal animals best, because that's why they're trained. We will therefore support the amendment tabled by the N-VA colleagues, because it meets that requirement. In reply to my question about this off-label use, you replied that this is what the European regulation says and that we, as an EU Member State, cannot get rid of it. This is proof that we must restrict the power of the European moloch rather than encourage, perpetuate or extend it ourselves. For the Flemish interest, it is clear that public health must be regulated as closely as possible to the people. I repeat once again that we need regionalisation of health care, and that we need a Flemish-based health care system. Above all, we do not need a European body that decides everything above the heads of professionals. We don't need another one size fits all. Ladies and gentlemen, let these arguments suffice to explain our abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u48	Mrs Depoorter, you are expecting an interesting debate, but we have already had that fascinating debate in committee. It may and must also be said that a battery of questions was fired at the Minister at that meeting. I think he has replied in great detail. I would like to return to the suggestion of N-VA and Flemish interest that this European directive should be transposed too late. On the one hand, it has been clearly answered that COOVID-19 has played a lot of consultative institutions, not only the FAGG, but above all that the transposition was not easy. The regulations applicable to medicines for humans and animals have been fully doubled. This also applies, of course, to the entire legislative arsenal behind it. At least that's how I understood it. Once again, I regret the abstention of colleagues from the N-VA and Flemish Interest. In principle, this directive would have entered into force on 28 January this year and should therefore be transposed into a draft law as soon as possible. The Regulation lays down not only the rules for which all stakeholders are interested parties for placing on the market, manufacture, import and export, supply, distribution, pharmacovigilance, control and use. It also seeks, and above all, in the light of its fourfold aim, to reduce the administrative burden. Everyone's asking for that. It also strengthens the internal market, improves the availability of veterinary medicinal products and ensures a high level of protection for public health, animal health and the environment. In this context, I refer to the important example of antimicrobial resistance. It is also important to mention that the opinion of the Council of State has been followed here and that the majority has tabled amendments to the points on which the Council of State commented. We regret the abstentions and can only vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Vanpeborgh, I would remind you that the European Regulation dates from 11 December 2018. So much time to justify, today, that we vote a posteriori on a text that has entered into force since 28 January 2022, is still a bit of coffee! If the rules were more than three months old, I could have followed you in your reasoning. But here we are three and a half years later. Therefore, your argument, or the way to try to justify the unjustifiable, obviously does not hold the road for a second. In substance, we will also abstain, Minister. Indeed, there are still a lot of unknowns as well as a lot of concerns. Strengthening the fight against antibiotic resistance is crucial. Antibioresistance is a major public health problem. However, concerns remain, as some want to go as far as a total ban on certain types of antibiotics in veterinary medicine. Faced with severe infections, both in small animals and in farm and farm animals, completely banning certain categories of antibiotics – I am thinking in particular of third and fourth generation cephalosporins, but also macrolides – would clearly pose enormous problems in practice and animal welfare. Given these persistent concerns and unknowns, also given the impossibility of having been able to exchange more widely on this specific subject in committee, and as a result of your non-response, particularly to the people and experts in the veterinary sector who directly questioned you, we will not be able to follow you on this bill. We will, moreover, be particularly vigilant of the subsequent decisions that you will be required to take on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the scientific progress and the conditions for an increasingly globalised market within our economic reality, it seemed obvious that the legal framework for veterinary medicinal products should have been adapted. This development should take into account the needs and particularities of the veterinary pharmaceutical sector, but also at the same time the protection of animal health and welfare, the environment and, more generally, public health. For example, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have adopted this famous European Regulation 2019/6, which provides for a harmonised and adapted legal framework, laying down rules on the placing on the market, manufacture, import-export, issue, distribution, pharmacovigilance, control and use of veterinary medicinal products. As stated in its first recital, its aim is very clear: to reduce the administrative burden, strengthen the internal market and improve the availability of veterinary medicinal products, while ensuring the highest level of protection for public and animal health and the environment. I can therefore only rejoice, even if I sit in the opposition, that this bill is finally trying to transpose this regulation into Belgian law, to the extent that it allows States to decide whether or not to implement certain provisions. However, I must regret, first of all on the form, that it will only be voted on almost three months after the entry into force of the European regulation. This transition period is, in the end, extremely long, leaving the door open to legal uncertainty. Minister, we know very well that the health crisis has made a huge effort and has placed some of our legal obligations behind you, so that – as you explained in committee – the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products was consulted later than expected. However, as was recalled at the moment, this regulation was adopted in December 2018, before the health crisis, so that it would have been perfectly possible to anticipate its transposition into Belgian law. I must also regret that there has been some lack of consultation with the professionals directly concerned by this text. For example, the Order of Veterinary Physicians has not been consulted at all. Minister, you justified yourself on this point in committee, saying that the operation of the Superior Council of the Order of Veterinary Physicians is, in your opinion, not relevant to the consideration of this bill and that there would be no legal obligation to consult. The absence of a legal obligation does not exempt the government from seeking the opinion of certain bodies a fortiori, as is the case here, when it comes to actors on the ground who are directly involved in a project. We must, however, be on the right side. I am reassured that the vagueness surrounding those who were required to register non-prescription drugs has finally been clarified, since the new section 37 states that it is only the supply of medicines, which is therefore reserved for veterinarians, and not the issue of the same medicines, which, in turn, is the responsibility of pharmacists. This amendment in the end therefore makes it possible not to overburden pharmacists with regard to the compulsory registration of non-prescription medicinal products. Finally, we know that a number of provisions have been deleted pending consultation of the European Commission on this text. It should be incorporated into our legislation at a later stage. I trust that these provisions will not be the same as this draft once the European Commission has been consulted. As you will understand, honourable senators, Mr.Minister, despite these remarks and some regrets, my group will support this bill that is being put to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u51	Madam President, the amendment tabled is, I believe, an illustration of a broader question from some members of the opposition, but it is a question that really cannot be answered. It was also recalled that we are being delayed. I'm not denying that. However, I would like to stress that this law will enter into force the day after publication in the Belgian Official Journal. We hope this will be soon. There is indeed a décalage between 28 January and the date of entry into force of the Regulation. That is a pity, but the arguments have been put forward. I do not think that the statement that there has been no consultation with veterinary organisations, for example, is correct. In fact, we have not followed all the desires of the vets. Mrs Depoorter, the people of the FAGG tell me that your account of this consultation, namely that this was only one webinar, is not correct. The FAGG says that the veterinarians have been consulted several times in preparation for the text. They were also consulted before the draft law was forwarded. Saying it was just one webinar isn't right. There has been several times a moment of consultation. Between the summer period, in which indeed a webinar took place, and the time when this design was finalized, there is a whole period of time. Apart from that, the problem at the bottom is the following, Mrs Depoorter. A number of sighs from the veterinary organisations mean that we could be out of touch with European legislation. However, we cannot do that. I would like us no longer to entertain the illusion that we can. Frankly, that is also the problem I have with your amendment. You say that there must be a therapeutic freedom under the terms of the veterinarian, which creates more opportunities than the precise possibilities in European legislation. But I can't. The Regulation expressly states in Article 106 that a veterinary medicinal product must be used in accordance with the conditions of the marketing authorisation. In cases where a medicinal product is not authorised or not available, Articles 112 to 114 of the same Regulation provide for detailed rules, the so-called cascade use for different species or indications. The European Commission has explicitly confirmed that this European cascade scheme is completely harmonised and does not allow interpretation. I have said this several times in committee, and I would like to repeat it here: it is not an option, and it is not serious, to give the impression here that we can deviate from European legislation when it comes to an explicit European rule. Now you can say that we must fight this at European level, fair enough. You're absolutely right about that. The application and impact of such a Regulation shall be continuously evaluated, inter alia, by the competent services of the Member States that consult with stakeholders. If we were to see serious problems with these parts of the regulation, according to my information, I see that today, however, is not happening, then we, as a Member State, can take the appropriate approach to the competent European authorities. If necessary, I will take responsibility. If, at some point in the Chamber, you give a number of concrete examples that show that the regulation is bad and leads to incorrect decisions that go against the knowledge of the veterinarians, then we can start to make such a European plea. But do not allow us to maintain the illusion that we can change that here ourselves. What European law looks like is really not possible. I'll come back to the meeting. In the executive, consultation does not always mean that you agree with the person you consult with. Sometimes you don't agree with people. Then you shouldn't say there hasn't been any consultation. The amendment is a useful illustration of what is actually a wrong approach to what we can do with European legislation. I would, of course, ask you to reject the amendment for that reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u52	Minister, you confirm what I have said before in discussions with you: consultation, that is debate. Consensus is to exchange thoughts with each other. It's exactly what didn't happen, according to what the vets report to me. If you consider a one-sided flow of information, which will give you five days to respond to, as a debate...(Minister Vandenbroucke reacts without micro)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u53	That is the problem, Minister: it will always be your word against the one who informs me. Do something about it. For months now, I have been asking you to communicate this transparently to the committee when you ask for advice or hold consultations. Then we will no longer have to have that discussion. Wouldn't that be easy for you, and for me, too? Then I don't have to contact all these people anymore. So let us take this path in future. But even so, Minister, the European regulation is, of course, ideal to put you behind it. You say that manufacturers will change the package leaflets, or they will adapt them if problems arise. But then they'll have months to go again. Then we risk the lack of medicines. Then we risk having dozens of the same molecules from another manufacturer present in a depot. And that just because one molecule is licensed for four days and the other for seven days. This is not an easy administrative matter. That's exactly the point I want to make. The vets are perfectly trained to assess that. It's not just about the molecule and the therapy. It's also about the route of administration. It's about the dosage. It's about the duration. You can intervene perfectly on that. For the sake of clarity, Minister, we have already set aside European legislation. If we find it worth it, we will. Well, this is worth it. It's an important sector. It is very important for public health and you are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u54	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u55	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2526/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2526/4) The bill has 109 articles. The draft law has 109 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip174x.u56	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The meeting of the Justice Commission is not over yet. The legislative proposals Nos. 1805 and 1806 will therefore be discussed in plenary tomorrow. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 April 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, 21 April 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
