ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u1	Minister, I recently took the initiative to visit Huy Prison. I have seen in my eyes the chronic problem of overcrowding, the lack of staff, the lack of medical follow-up for prisoners, and also the provision of adequate monitoring and communication facilities for prison staff. This morning, I discovered that the supervisory commission dedicated to Huy prison has just issued its report on this institution, which is catastrophic: food too fat, rats, five showers only for eighty-five inmates, so three showers a week per prisoner, WC in the cell. These are real problems that are being raised at Huy's prison. Minister, how many prisoners are in Huy prison? How do you fight this chronic overpopulation? Has the mayor of Huy taken a decree to limit the number of detainees in Huy prison? If so, how does your administration take this into account? To my knowledge, there is only one psychologist and two social workers for the monitoring of cases and the drafting of expert reports. How do you intend to help the staff, as more than eight full-time equivalents would be missing? Would it not be wise to welcome one or two additional psychologists and/or social worker, or even a doctor or nurse on a permanent basis in Huy? How many prisoners do they work in Huy Prison for pay? The prison also suffers from a lack of monitoring and communication facilities. However, the overall redevelopment project has been promised for 12 years. Have any means been deployed to remedy this? Will other investments be made by your administration, for example, in enhanced means of protection against the most dangerous detainees? Will you support the renovation of Huy's prison? Do you support the review of the inmate profile to be incarcerated in Huy? This is a small prison, with a highly experienced staff profile. Could investments be made in the future to transform Huy's prison, in the longer term, into a detention facility, as is the case elsewhere in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u2	Mr. Cogolati, this 18 May, eighty-seven detainees are present at Huy Prison. Transfers were organized according to the possibilities, taking into account the overcrowding in the prisons. A decree has been in existence for several years. It applies to transfers in the event of overpopulation, but they are not always possible for the same reason. Then, among the four nurses with independent status, one worked as a statutory worker at Andenne prison and was particularly familiar with the procedures. This organization allows for the passage of one nurse seven days a week for a duration of four hours. There is one intensive care nurse, one fire nurse, one home care nurse and one statutory nurse who works at Huy Prison. There are also two doctors attached to the prison, but the Directorate-General for Prisons (DG EPI) is still seeking reinforcements. The coordinating doctor of the central administration contacted a colleague working in the Huy region, who will talk to the local medical assessment group, in particular to encourage trainee teachers to let their trainees come in prison on a part-time basis. Huy suffers from a huge shortage of general practitioners. The psychosocial service has a full-time psychologist and 1.9 full-time social worker. This is not a problem for an institution of more than eighty inmates. In addition, a renovation project is under consideration. Discussions are under way with regard to drop-outs. The situation is never easy for a prison in the city centre. In addition, a positive prisoner is placed in medical isolation for the specified period, before being monitored by the medical and psychosocial services of the prison. Sufficient means of protection are stored. We will continue to vaccinate inmates who wish to be vaccinated. Finally, in Huy as elsewhere, the prisoner profile is reviewed before each transfer. Various parameters are taken into account for this type of decision, including the characteristics of the establishment. The transformation of Huy's prison into a detention facility is not relevant to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. Huy Prison is one of the oldest but also the smallest prisons. It was built in 1871. It has been twelve years since Huy has been promised investments in renovations and security for both prisoners and prison staff. It must be noted that the prison is in an old, deplorable, completely obsolete state and not worthy of a 21st century prison for a rich country like Belgium. I simply ask the government that the promises of work be kept. I hear you say that the redesign and the new vocation of the prison are not relevant. For my part, I am in favour of rethinking, today, the future of the Huy prison and the profile of the inmates to be incarcerated in it according to the existing infrastructure. I think we really need to take advantage of the fact that this facility is a small, human-sized facility with very experienced guards. Therefore, why not turn Huy Prison into a detention facility to provide a more suitable structure for prisoners sentenced to short-term sentences, such as what is being done, for example, in Scandinavia, to accompany them towards employment and social reintegration?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u4	Mr President, Mrs Dillen has asked for her question. 55027499C. Mrs De Wit, you have a question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u5	Mr President, I would like my combined question No. 55027802C also postpone until next week. Mrs Dillen has contacted me to ask for both questions to be dealt with together. I believe that the Minister has been informed of this. That's how we're gonna keep him from having to answer this twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u6	Mr Minister, some 15 detention houses will soon be set up in Belgium in collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments. These detention centres are said to be designed to accommodate persons sentenced to short prison terms. These would be inmates who would not present a hazard profile. Prisons prepare them for social reintegration, helping them to seek training, work, etc. One of these detention houses should open in Wellin. From what we have understood, the local authorities have been confronted with the fait accompli. Since the briefing given by the Federal and the Office of the Secretary of State, citizens have been even more insecure and very worried. They were not given any answers to their questions about the choice of this site. Everything is shocking in this project: to impose it on the inhabitants without consultation, to choose the place of reception which is a rural area with a low population density. I like to report this regularly: Chanly is a village with only 600 inhabitants, far from the major centres of activity. This will not promote reintegration, since it is difficult to see how to reintegrate into the woods, as the inhabitants say. The construction of the project next to a home for the elderly, more fragile and fearful, is challenging, as is the proximity of a home for children placed by the judge. What message is sent to these children? In some cases, you have reversed your decision to set up such prisons. Here, we ask you very clearly to reconsider your decision. A prison next to a children's home is not acceptable. A prison in a small village like Chanly isn't either. Minister, I would like to urge you to abandon this project. I'll be happy to listen to your answers and be able to reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I would also like to ask you about the opening of a detention facility in Wellin that is part of your stated objective of opening 15 detention facilities during the current legislature. More specifically, the aim is to open closed institutions with a limited capacity of up to 20 to 60 persons, designed for the detention of prisoners sentenced to short prison terms of less than 3 years, all for a budget of EUR 91.5 million. In Chanly, some 17 detainees are expected soon enough. Indeed, you announced that you would be in the process of finalizing the purchase file, with very few modifications to be made to the building. Since that announcement, the questions and protests of the residents have increased. While for some, this is a categorical rejection of proximity to inmates, some raise relevant points. Thus, the location of the future house, close to a school, worries the population. In addition, localization does not promote the proper reintegration of prisoners into society, especially given the difficulties of mobility in that locality. Such detention projects should be considered for prisoners, with priority given to their reintegration. Let us not lose sight of this objective! Minister, have you followed the heated debates of the public information meetings? If so, what do you get from it? Is the project in question? Have other locations been studied in the province? Has there been any study of the reintegration opportunities for prisoners and the mobility problem associated with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned on several occasions, the concept of reduced-scale detention is enshrined in the government agreement. It is developed in two forms: the transitional houses for which an extension to 100 places is planned and the detention houses for which 720 places spread over fifteen sites are also planned. All parliamentarians support this concept of reintegration and reduction of recidivism. But once it comes to implementing the concept on the ground, the NIMBY phenomenon is emerging and everyone agrees that the concept is excellent, but not here. The teams of the SPF Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments visited dozens of potential sites in the territory of our country. The buildings covered are those already owned by the State as well as those on the traditional real estate market. The aim is to find buildings with sufficient rooms and sanitary facilities. They must also offer administrative premises, training facilities, a space to serve as a preau and others. In this research, consideration is also given to factors such as the accessibility of these sites, their environment or the needs of the province concerned as part of the coming into force of the 2006 Act. As I was able to report in plenary last Thursday, this visit is the first step towards the implementation of a detention facility. Indeed, once a site is retained, there are then contacts with, in order, the mayor, the college, the communal council and the population. All these steps were carried out in Wellin, with the support of the mayor and the college, in any case until protests from the population appeared. Yes, colleagues, the site has been carefully chosen. In the province of Luxembourg, we need about 20 places for the 2006 law and this site has 17 places. This figure is the maximum of the convicts present. He'll never be overtaken. I would remind you that these 17 detainees will be constantly supervised on the spot by staff from DG PPE, as in any prison. It is therefore necessary to be clear that these detainees will be selected on the basis of the facts committed, the severity of the sentence and their belonging to the nearby region. They will not move freely, either in the streets or in the vicinity of the detention house. They will be able to leave only under the strict conditions of their reintegration and after the agreement of the management, as is the case in a conventional prison. There is therefore no reason to fear these people. On the contrary, they must be helped to reintegrate. This is the essence of this detention facility project. As in any change, fears are expressed on the ground. Believe that I understand them and that I am attentive to them! In fact, my office and my colleague's office were present at the briefing. I understand the concerns that this project may raise. We encountered the same kind of fear in 1994 when the work of general interest was initiated. The communes imagined that the convicts concerned would set their services on fire and blood, but now a commune does not question the presence of these convicts in its services. Similarly, when the transitional houses were launched, identical concerns were encountered. Thus, in Enghien, a petition against the transitional house had circulated in August 2019. Three years later, the mayor of Enghien is a strong supporter of the revival of the project, which was decided by choice of the association that carried the project. So I understand the emotion of the population, but justice must evolve. Detention homes have proven to be an effective alternative to conventional prison. With regard to the population concerned and the proximity to a particular place such as a school, a home for the elderly or help and reception services, should I remind you that more than 50% of prisons are in cities, where schools are often very close? But above all, I must insist that the convicts involved in the detention centres are those who are currently awaiting an electronic bracelet, who are under electronic surveillance. These convicts are all currently among the population, without any major problem. To give you a concrete figure, on 16 May, 1,785 detainees wearing an electronic bracelet were among the population. No one is offended by the fact that these convicts travel among us every day. I repeat that what supports all these measures is the reintegration of convicted persons into society. By definition, this means that people are even present in public transport, streets, shops. So we must stop demonizing those convicts and give them a chance. I had this political courage in my own commune. I'm not the only one. And you, too, in this assembly, support the initiative. It is time to do so also in your cities and municipalities. Wellin's project will therefore continue, as there is no fundamental reason for it to be otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u9	Minister, thank you for your wrong answer. I have to admit it. In fact, you're the mayor of a city, minister. Here we are facing a small rural commune with a low population density. We're in this middle, next to a school and a retirement home. This is indeed a problem. To my knowledge, too, unless the information I have read is not accurate, I believe that the mayor and the college are no longer as favourable to the project. That is, in any case, what I thought I understood in the press articles in the last few days. I hope you're informed. If they don't, they'll have to let you know. On behalf of the Engaged, I ask you to review this project and find a solution elsewhere, because honestly, we cannot accept that this project will materialize in Chanly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer, most of which is very good. If Ecolo is certainly not in favour of the prison sentence as a criminal response to the offences, he is, on the other hand, entirely in favour of the detention centres in general and in the spirit of reintegration as you have just pointed out. I fully agree with you on the NIMBY phenomenon for having known it in many other projects, whether in the criminal field or in others. I'm from Marche-en-Famenne, where a big prison has settled. I can testify and reassure the public by saying that this has not caused any inconvenience, neither security nor any other, to the city. This is a very important element and you are right to say that people who will have to occupy such places should not be demonized. You also answered a question I had not asked. Initially, you had the support of the mayor and the college of the commune, although perhaps, as a result of the reactions of the population, this opinion has changed somewhat. This may need to be taken into account. On the other hand, you did not answer an element in my questions. If I say that I am very much in favour of principle, of rigor even in a small village because I don't think that the security argument can be relevant even in a village, when it comes to detention homes, with inmates who are either at the end of their sentence or those who are serving small prison sentences, I put on a reserve. Indeed, you did not answer my question about mobility, the social reception measures and the reintegration opportunities that were provided for in the immediate vicinity of this detention facility. It's my only reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u11	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u12	Mrs Daems is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u13	Mr Segers, you are asking about the impact of the Ukraine crisis on the Voogdij Office and the decision of the Council of Ministers of 6 May. I suggest that you put a written question on the statistics. First of all, like you, I am concerned about the situation of unaccompanied minors in our country and the related challenges. It is important to note that Belgium faced a very high influx of unaccompanied minors in 2021 and 2022. According to Eurostat, we were even in second place in the European Union in 2021. In absolute numbers, our country received more minors than Germany and the Netherlands, for example. For the Voogdij Service, the consequences of the war in Ukraine came on top of that from March 2021. It is true that this very high influx has resulted in a very high workload at the service and up to a higher term in terms of the appointment of a guardian. There was no idle effort to limit the consequences of that influx. Among other things, a new recruitment campaign in 2021 selected 98 new voluntary and self-employed guardians and with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 6 May we strengthened the Voogdij Service with additional resources. On 6 May the Council of Ministers adopted my proposal for the strengthening of the Voogdij Service. The file before us took into account Celeval's new prognosis. In his report of 25 April, Celeval updated the prognosis of 200,000 expected Ukrainians to 78,000. We are currently assuming that approximately 1,400 unaccompanied minors may be offered here. We closely monitor the situation with all the partners involved. You will probably also realise that it is difficult to make predictions about this. The decision of 6 May provides for an additional investment of 1.8 million for the Voogdij Office for the recruitment of 11 additional staff, an increase in allowances to associations for the recruitment of 25 additional employee guardians and an additional budget for interpretation costs and compensation to voluntary and self-employed guardians. Furthermore, on 6 May the Council of Ministers decided that, if fees were no longer to be paid in 2023, the costs would be met by the appropriations available. Together with the FPS Justice and the Voogdij Service we are working hard to strengthen the service. Be aware that the recruitment of staff takes the necessary time. In order to meet the urgent needs in the short term, a call has also been launched through Selor and through Special Federal Forces. Two social experts will be joining the service in the short term. There are also calls for reinforcement through administrative assistants. As regards the recruitment of employee guardians, we are in consultation with the various associations. We are also assessing whether additional protocol agreements can be concluded with other suitable associations. However, to this end, the Royal Decree of 22 December 2003 should be amended, as it regulates, inter alia, the payment of subsidies to those associations for 25 additional employee guardians. That's what we're doing. The selection of the 25 additional employee guardians is made by the association with which the Voogdij Service has concluded a protocol agreement. However, associations must follow a recruitment procedure and face a tight labour market and the difficulty of finding qualified candidates. Those recruitments will therefore take the necessary time. In addition, I would like to organise a recruitment campaign for new voluntary self-employed guardians as soon as possible, but this requires the necessary preparation, while the service is already overloaded. With the funds released, it should be possible to organise an additional recruitment campaign by 2022. As far as trade union action is concerned, we are still in talks with the trade unions together with the Human Resources Department of the FPS Justice Department. In doing so, we have already made several proposals to re-establish permanence, which has not yet been achieved, but we remain optimistic and work hard on it. As far as your detailed question on profiles is concerned, Mr Segers, I propose that this question be submitted in writing, just like the one on the upcoming minors. However, I can already tell you that according to the information provided by the Foreign Office, 2 to 5 unaccompanied minors are arriving at the Heysel every day. Their numbers are clearly declining compared to a few weeks and months ago, when 40 or more arrived daily. Meanwhile, 796 Ukrainian unaccompanied minors have been registered at the Voogdij service, the vast majority of which are accompanied by a family member. A total of 1,125 minors are currently awaiting the appointment of a guardian. Of these, some 200 minors are currently in an Observation and Orientation Centre in Fedasil. A more permanent residence is initially sought for that target group. In a second phase, a guardian may be appointed in the near vicinity of that residence. Priority will be given to the most vulnerable minors. So far, 99 Ukrainian minors have been appointed guardians. As far as housing checks are concerned, unaccompanied minors from Ukraine who are alone and need shelter, immediately flow to foster families of Foster Care Flanders and Mentor Jeunes. Minors who register together with a family member and need care are receiving care from local authorities together with that family member. There is also a group of minors who do not need care because they can go to friends or family. I would like to stress that the Voogdij Office is not competent for the reception of unaccompanied minors. Housing control and monitoring are also not the responsibility of the Voogdij Service. It is the district agent, who will check the residence of the minor at the given address for the issue of an A card in the context of the temporary protection status. For example, notable problematic situations can be noticed. Furthermore, unaccompanied minors from Ukraine can claim social integration of the OMCW. In the application for aid, the OMCW will conduct a light social investigation to identify the person's state of need and to prevent the unaccompanied minors from being caught by bad channels. In distressing situations, Youth Aid and Aide à la jeunesse are legally empowered to investigate and act. For me too, it is important that local authorities and local police pay sufficient attention to the situation in which minors would be taken care of. To date, no problems have been reported to the Voogdij department. In the case of indications of abuse or trafficking in human beings, the Voogdij Department shall designate a guardian as a priority, as it does in the case of serious medical or psychological problems, pregnant women or teenage mothers and in the case of very young children. Even if, for example, the DVZ has doubts about the family ties when registering on the Heysel, the Voogdij department will be contacted and a guardian will be appointed as a priority. In the FAQs of the Social Integration PPS, the OCMWs are informed that they can contact the Voogdij Service to request an accelerated guardian in these situations. The Voogdij Service is regularly contacted by the OCMW's with many practical questions. In some cases the home situation of the minors was difficult and contact was made with Foster Care Flanders and Mentor Jeunes for a placement in a foster family. In these situations, the Voogdijk Service appointed a guardian as a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u14	Minister, you stated that recruitment of staff takes time, but that staff is of course now needed for the Ukrainian unaccompanied minors currently staying in our country. I am less concerned about the unaccompanied minors who are in need of shelter, which you spoke of. However, I am more concerned about those who are registered in the registration centre at the Heysel without need of reception. According to you, they do not fall within the competence of the Voogdij Service, but normally a guardian would have been appointed for them. It is therefore of the utmost importance to monitor these minors centrally, so that we have a view on each of them. You state that Child Services is competent in distressing situations. However, how will we know if there is a worrying situation? That is precisely the role of the guardian. In a document from the Flemish government, it can be read that in the context of network care care, Ukrainian children who are temporarily staying with family members or friends also follow up and supervise their foster care services. According to that document, the foster services can do so. I wonder if it is possible that the Voogdij Department will make systematic arrangements with foster care for each of those minors, so that they are all on the radar.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u15	Minister, under the Arms Act of 8 June 2006, several powers are vested in the governors, including authorizations for the possession of a firearm, the processing of various ad hoc forms, etc. If the federal government makes resources available to them in this context, it would seem, however, that these resources are currently insufficient, given the administrative burden of these various procedures, which are essential to the objectives of the Act. I interviewed your colleague in charge of the interior. The Commission informed me of the distribution of the employees of the Internal SPF currently made available to the governors in this framework. She also invited me to ask you about the necessary human resources that would be lacking in some provinces, since this is also within your jurisdiction. Minister, could you please tell me if you have an analysis of what would be missing in some provinces? If so, do you intend to provide reinforcements in consultation with your colleague in charge of the Inland FPS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the arms law is typically an area in which the different levels of power have a responsibility: the federal level mainly in the head of the Interior and Justice Ministers, the regional level and above all the provincial level. The governors are responsible for issuing authorizations in accordance with Article 31 of the Law of 8 June 2006 on Arms. Article 36 of the Act expressly states that the exercise of the powers of governors in this field shall be carried out in consultation with the Minister of the Interior. I am well aware of the need to provide the necessary personnel to both the Federal Arms Service and the Provincial Arms Services. With my colleague from the Interior, I am always ready to discuss this with the governors in the framework of the Conference of Governors, with the aim of accurately identifying critical points, possible missing means, so that the governors can fully exercise their powers. Anyway, I'm going to discuss it with the Federal Weapons Service of the FPS Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u17	Minister, thank you. At first, I was a little scared: when I asked the Minister of the Interior, she told me to ask the Minister of Justice and you, you tell me about the provinces. I was afraid you'd send me back to them. I am therefore a little reassured by your response. You are listening to the governors and willing to hear them, as I understand them, in order to eventually meet the needs they will share with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u18	Minister, the press today relayed an initiative by the Liège police to combat street harassment. In this system, a police officer dressed in civilian clothes walks around the public space and verbalizes sexist behaviour on the street. This would have already led to 51 PVs. In principle, of course, initiatives to make the public space more secure for women can be useful and must be carried out, provided that they are not based on prejudice and do not target certain neighbourhoods or categories of the population. It also seems important that the well-being of the police officers in charge of this role be ensured, because being harassed for hours is not annoyed. But if I ask you, it is because the way in which the device was described in the press was quite disturbing to me. A parallel was made with bait devices to counter theft of bicycles or cars, for which it is necessary to ensure that there is no incitement to the offence. The spokesman for the Liège police explained that the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office had to approve the device and validate the police's handling of each operation, in order to ensure that it was, I quote, "dressed correctly and not in a tricky manner, rather in trousers", and thus avoid any incitement to harassment. It should obviously be understood that wearing a skirt or shorts, for example, and not trousers, would be an improper, aguisty outfit, or could be an incitement to harassment. This would be very worrying for the real usefulness of the scheme if one considers that the conduct of a person can cause him or her to bear a share of responsibility in the harassment that he or she might be subjected to. In this case, it's not really anti-harassment. So these are my questions. Can you confirm that what the press reports on this device corresponds to what is being put in place? If so, can you clarify the role of the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office in this system? Why would it be necessary to validate the police being held by the prosecutor at each operation in order to ensure the legality of the scheme? If the statements are correct, what initiative do you intend to take to recall that, in this case, as in any form of sexual or gender-based violence, the way in which the victim is dressed cannot under any circumstances be considered an incitement to the offence or make the victim partially responsible for the harassment she has suffered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u19	Dear colleague, incitement to commit offences is prohibited in our country. It is the Public Prosecutor's Office which determines the guidelines in this regard. According to a report by the Prosecutor of the King of Liège, it is not correct that the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office would validate the police in question before each operation. On the other hand, the police are appended to the minutes in the event of an offence so that the judge can be aware of all the objective elements of the file when he or she makes a decision. Let me recall that the offence of sexism in public space is repeated in section 2 of the Act of 22 May 2014 against sexism in public space and amending the Act of 10 May 2007. The elements of the offence are, among other things, a serious violation of dignity, a moral element, in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 25 May 2016, which resumes parliamentary work. Special dol is required so that an intention to harm is required. This will must be ostensible and unquestionable. It is up to the Public Prosecutor's Office to provide evidence of all these elements, including the moral element of the offence, the special dolry I have just described, and it is up to the judge to judge. The objective of this project is precisely to combat the stereotypes you denounce by identifying the perpetrators of problematic behaviour under the law and then offering them a job of accountability. The directives adopted by the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office have no other objective. Once the minutes have been sent to the prosecutor's office, suspects who recognize the offence are offered the follow-up of a short pre-trial probation: three appointments within the ASBL Praxis – a partner of the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office in the context of this project – during which the author is aware of the scope of his actions. If the suspect does not recognize the offence or if his or her criminal history does not permit a pre-trial probation, he or she is brought before the correctional court.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that the prosecutor's office refutes the assertion that it would validate the police uniform each time. On the other hand, I remain concerned by the fact that you tell us that dress is considered to be a relevant element to be placed on the record so that the judge can make a decision. This means that someone thinks that the dress in which a woman walks on the street is a relevant element or plays a role in the facts that happen. That continues to be a concern to me. I don't see why it would be appropriate for us to know how the person was dressed to be able to judge whether there was an offence. Contact is also taken with the Minister of the Interior and I would like to encourage you to look at this carefully because it is a matter of concern to consider that the victim's behaviour is a relevant element to be included in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u21	Mr President, Minister, you remember the commotion a few months ago, when some municipalities wanted to go into business with a private partner, to establish small speeding offences on their territory. The infringements would be sanctioned by a GAS fine in accordance with the GAS 5 regulation. Following that commotion at the beginning of 2022, you announced that the Justice Department was proactively looking for an alternative to GAS 5. This alternative had to focus on improving road safety, but it also had to provide financial support for cities and municipalities. You had therefore worked out a scenario, whereby Flanders would transfer part of the cross-border revenues to local authorities. I have two specific questions. Minister, what is the status of the alternative? How is the discussion with the Flemish government going?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u22	Mr President, Mr Raskin, the alternative system has been extensively proposed to many actors. Our services are still fully engaged in the operationalisation of the scenario. The basis for this has already been laid. What has not yet been operationalised concerns the outstanding questions, which must be answered at the level of the Flemish Government. Nevertheless, the Justice Department is trying to develop a more flexible system that will allow decisions to be rapidly translated into technical developments once they have been taken. We remain convinced that the spill-over scenario brings great added value to road safety through a consistent approach to repeaters, foreign traffic offenders and legal entities, inter alia because the payment order, breaches of Article 67b and foreign certificates can be applied in order to keep the criminal chain closed. A financial return to the local level seems to us to be an important step in financing local road safety. In reply to your second question, I can inform you that, according to the information we have at our disposal, the Flemish Government has not yet put the spillover scenario on the political agenda. Justice hopes that the collapse scenario can be scheduled as soon as possible and remains at the disposal of the Flemish government for further elaboration and consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u23	Minister, your answer was very clear. You are repeating some of the elements that you have also given in previous answers. You add that the dossier has not yet been published on the political agenda in Flanders. I suggest we both wait for that. We can then at some point, when Flanders is ready, discuss further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u24	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55027800C by Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u25	Minister, last week we had the first hearing on the situation at the...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u26	I will reply to that at the scheduled hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u27	Mr Minister, my question had already been put before the decision on that hearing was taken yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u28	I will reply when we come to the committee. I won't answer it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u29	So you will not reply at all and refer only to that hearing? Then I'd better postpone my question than reading them for nothing now. However, there is still a lot to be said about this, Minister, apart from that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u30	Minister, figures from Flemish Minister for Justice and Enforcement, Mrs Demir, show that only one in three convicted terrorists are being deradicalised by the courts. Of the 41 individuals linked to terrorism and currently being followed, only 13 are in a deradicalisation process. Since 2018, 102 terrorist convictions have been released, for which the judge has imposed a deradicalisation pathway only in 32 cases. Mrs Demir indicated that she was in favour of imposing such a route in the event of convictions for terrorism. Are you also in favour of the idea of requiring deradicalisation routes for all convicted terrorists?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u31	Mrs De Wit, I would like to give you a few points of clarification. While in the beginning Syrian fighters were not automatically and systematically prosecuted, this is now the case because our penal law has been amended. Since then, criminal law in our country has condemned nearly 500 people for terrorist offences. This means that justice can exercise more control over such persons than before. The criminal court may indeed impose conditions in the context of a conditional release. Those conditions may include a deradicalisation or disengagement process. The Flemish Community does not have to wait for the SURB's decision to start a deradicalisation process. Such pathways can also be started during detention. Working for the reintegration of the convicted person is, after all, a Community competence. Even after the end of the sentence, such persons will continue to be monitored within the framework of the LTF and the LIVC, the local task forces and the local integrated security cells, structures that we have drawn up after the terrorist crisis for a better follow-up of terrorists, extremists and individuals subject to potentially dangerous radicalisation. These structures were confirmed in the Strategy Terrorism, Extremism and Radicalisation, which was approved by all governments and also by the Flemish government in the Consultation Committee in September 2021. The philosophy of the TER strategy is by the way a tailor-made approach, a tailor-made approach. The deradicalisation process does not exist. Disengagement paths are usually chosen, with work also on a possible underlying problem of a psychological nature. Of course, I am always willing to examine constructive proposals for a better follow-up of convicted persons. When we talk about the compulsory imposition of deradicalisation pathways, I first of all wonder what exactly is meant by deradicalisation pathways. After all, that flag can cover many loads, as I have just explained. Secondly, the question is whether such an obligation is consistent with the philosophy of the TER strategy, which we have all approved together. Moreover, there should also be sufficient capacity at the justice houses, where appropriate, to comply with the judicial conditions and accompany the convicted persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u32	Mr Minister, I am trying to understand this. I understand that there must be a tailor-made approach. You stated that we must first know what such a trajectory means and what it means before it is imposed. That is a very strange question, given that judges already impose such a route. I suppose they will know what this is about. After all, I cannot imagine that Dame Justitia, who I know is not perfect, is the opposite of what it means to be so blind that, in at least one case, she already imposes a route on three occasions, without knowing what it means. I believe that there is a good enough knowledge of what that trajectory should look like. It is also important, Minister, that something like this should be done, because it must be avoided at all times and in any way. In some cases, this route is even more important than the final detention. I regret your reaction. I understand that you are asking for a tailor-made approach, but I am very surprised that there is not even a minimum of what the route should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u33	Mr President, Mr Segers, unfortunately I was unable to attend this celebration myself. However, my cabinet employee, who was present, was able to see how much joy there is among the voluntary sex workers, and I am pleased with that. We fought for this together with them. As you know, the decriminalisation of sex workers is a step in the right direction. After all, we can work more step by step than do nothing at all because we want too much at once. From 1 July onwards, we will only allow sex work on our own by no longer criminalising the role of third parties. There are discussions between the associations of sex workers and the competent Cabinets on the employment contracts which will be possible within the framework of a recognised undertaking. I will discuss this with them at the end of May. However, you are referring to the current policy of tolerance of masseuses and waiters currently employed by a contract of employment. When drafting the amendment on criminal pimping, we made it very clear in the chapter 'abuse of prostitution' that it cannot be the intention to prosecute mass prostitutes who are of age and who voluntarily perform sex work on 1 June. The arrows should focus on the situations of exploitation. We know what direction we want to go: gradually decriminalising, and once the decriminalisation policy is there, the tolerance policy must disappear. If there is a perfect legal framework within which employment contracts are possible, then everyone will have to comply. It will then be done forever with hypocritical tolerance and it will become clear which situations of exploitation and abuse should be addressed. We are working on a royal decision that will allow internet platforms insofar as they work well with the police and the police to report exploitation and abuse. This is another important step, for which we consult as many partners as possible. Let us focus on this, as well as on the approved companies. In the preparatory work of the new sexual criminal law, I have consulted closely with the police. Their involvement in the drafting of legislation is always important, not only to gain ground experience, but also to ensure that police people are informed about the novelties in a timely and clear manner. There are training courses that deal with this issue. I am confident that the executives will take appropriate initiatives to inform and train their employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your clear statement. I would just like to add that it could also be useful to provide this information to the local police areas. [[I myself will also provide some contact persons with information, so that uncertainty can be removed for some on the ground.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u35	Mr President, first of all I would like to say something about sensitisation. The crisis in Ukraine has led to a massive flow of refugees to Europe and Belgium. This uncertain population is in a vulnerable situation, making it easier for them to become victims of economic or sexual exploitation by networks trying to recruit them, particularly through false promises. There is a risk that people will offer to take in refugees with the aim of exploiting them. There is also a risk that these people will accept tasks that do not comply with our labour law standards because they do not know them. Measures should therefore be taken to ensure that refugees are properly informed about the risks of trafficking in human beings and the services that can help them. It is also important to make the various actors and sectors in contact with these refugees aware of the measures they can take to prevent trafficking in human beings. For this we will of course not re-invent the hot water, but also previously published material, which was very clear, activate and distribute through different channels. There will also be a strong focus on how we can reach as many refugees as possible to sensitise them. We are also going to transform existing digital campaigns into a physical campaign to reach even more people. The successful campaign Blind Betting, on sexual exploitation, will also appear in the larger train stations in Belgium, because it is also known that a lot of people from this target group pass there. We are also going to work on a brochure, which will be made available to existing asylum structures. For a few years now, we have had a brochure for asylum seekers, which deals with the basic labour standards in our country and the services that can be contacted with regard to abuse. We are also going to provide a translation into Ukrainian, English and Russian. Then I come to the questions about the hotline. Like you, I am delighted that at last there will be a central hotline for victims of trafficking in human beings. For years now this has been being organized and the pressure is high from the services involved. As I have said a few times to previous oral questions, our team, together with the directors of the centres, has been looking at this thoroughly for some time. With the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, we have moved faster. The decision is there, the central hotline is coming. This will mean that anyone in Belgium who thinks they are faced with a situation of trafficking in human beings, victims, citizens, first-line services should be able to contact this point for a notification or a request for information. This regardless of age, nationality or form of exploitation. A notification must be digital, based on a digital form, but also by telephone or via a chat function. Of course, a distinction must be made between police services, which can report this via a secure channel, and other potential detectors. Moreover, GDPR legislation must be in order. This means that work will be phased out, in close cooperation with the three centres, which will be responsible for the organisation of the follow-up of the dates. Each of them has also received the funds to recruit two FTEs. It is also important that, as with the operational construction set up by the Ukraine Task Force, we consider whether information from non-localised facts can be immediately referred to the FGP Central Service, in cooperation with the Federal Office. In a first phase, this summer, a central website will be developed on which all information on trafficking in human beings, detection and follow-up will be found. A digital notification will be sent immediately to the centres, depending on the location of the detector, which will handle it. In a second phase, we will also ensure that the police can reach the platform in a secure way. Of course, police forces can continue to use the already known channels to reach these centres as a matter of urgency. We try to integrate a chat function by then. In a third phase, the communication by telephone must also be operational via a single central number. This must be accompanied by a well-organised information and training campaign for all target groups. I am talking not only about the general public, but also about police services, medical services and social organisations. Mr Segers, logging in is certainly an option, but with direct follow-up of central services and coordination of the federal prosecutors. This would benefit both follow-up and imaging, but should be further investigated, together with the main partners. As far as imaging is concerned, the committees on trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings will show that there will be more investment in the imaging of the phenomenon. As a result, Myria is also having difficulty getting a national overview every year, due to a lack of sufficient qualitative imagery. With a central hotline we will take this to another level. In combination with good imaging, training of first-line services and the digital platform, we will make it easier for victims to find their way to help. Anyone who becomes the victim of trafficking in human beings must know where to go to be helped. That is why, after the start of the conflict in Ukraine, I immediately commissioned a specific task force to raise awareness of incoming refugees. The work of the Task Force is currently continuing in its regular functioning, as an additional focus. This will also speed up the availability of improved data for police services. If all notifications on the ground are recorded in this system, there will be instant access to anonymized data. This will provide the opportunity to respond more quickly to trends that are developing. The KB advertising platforms provide for a provision requiring the Internet platforms to include a reference on a website to the trafficking hotline once it is operational. The three centres receive 70,000 euros each. This has been calculated for six months to recruit two FTEs per center with the necessary additional fees and the IT equipment that these new employees will work with. In addition, €50,000 will be devoted to the development of the digital platform. Mr Segers, since 11 March we have processed 119 reports of various suspicious situations relating to economic exploitation, sexual exploitation and sleepers. Most of these notifications are followed up as information because they are not sufficiently substantiated at this stage. All this information is managed by the Central Service DJSOC cell trafficking. In Antwerp, an investigation has been opened into 18 Ukrainians who are housed in two separate homes, under inappropriate conditions, for example pregnant women and women with children. A study of economic exploitation was also launched, in which several Ukrainian women were exploited by a butcher. Finally, an investigation was started into a person who is active in the sexual exploitation in West Flanders. The suspect was arrested and a Ukrainian woman was found along with her mother and son. The investigation is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but even more so for the initiative, which also responds to an important question from Mr Vooruit, which I have often raised about the Ukraine crisis. You will understand, therefore, that I am particularly delighted about the upcoming central notification point, which can become a real milestone in the fight against trafficking in human beings and that you will rightly be able to deal with it in stages. There are countless possibilities. It will bring new phenomena to the radar and generate new statistics and imaging. The policy will also be able to be adjusted immediately. We will know what happens when, for example, a whole series of zones detects forced sexual exploitation of minors and not in one zone. In that case, it will be clear that this is not correct and that it needs to be corrected. It will also allow the reference magistraat to build up more specialisation, that parts of files can be better put together by him or her and that exploitation will be stopped and networks rolled up. It also leads to responsiveness of the entire chain, including police and reference magistrates, especially when the local police area is provided with its own login for reports of potential cases of trafficking in human beings, which can thus be monitored by the reference magistraat. The applications are endless, such as the advertising platform you mentioned. You can, of course, count on my full support to make the initiative a daring success. Finally, Minister, I would like to say once again that Minister Dermagne is also working on a hotline, of which, I must admit, the scope is not quite clear to me. However, it seems important that this does not become double-up and that one does not come cycling between the other. So it's necessary to agree. This hotline, too, must be in line with the multidisciplinary model, which is so important in Belgium in the fight against trafficking in human beings. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u37	Minister, our group also thank you for following up on these important questions in the fight against trafficking in human beings. You have replied very comprehensively to the questions. I certainly won't lay the fire on you. After all, we see the phased element. We will follow up on this together and, where necessary, adjust it. I look forward to a platform that will work well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u38	Mr President, Minister, last week, and again yesterday, we were able to hear the alarm and distress of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney-General's Office and the Directorate-General of the Federal Judicial Police (PJF), which are in a catastrophic state. Hundreds of investigations have unfortunately to be abandoned due to lack of resources, staff, investment and attractiveness. In addition, last week, Federal Attorney M. Van Leeuw said in the press that although convictions in some cases result, the lack of resources, particularly in the area of personnel, may lead to the fact that many of the confiscations handed down are not effective and are not enforced. The Supreme Council of Justice, in its March 2020 investigation report on the achievement of the objectives pursued by the Enforcement Criminal Investigation Act (PEA), points to serious breaches of enforcement and recovery, which undermine the credibility of our criminal policy. In addition, it appears that in all financial sanctions, only 10 per cent of cases would have been recovered. I know that you are contributing to an improvement in the situation and that an increase in the number of magistrates carrying out criminal investigations was foreseen at the end of 2021. Efforts must be continued. The mobilization of people and means to lead to a conviction that is ultimately not carried out is indeed a waste of human resources and creates a sense of impunity, both for citizens and for those involved in the criminal chain. You also mentioned, during a discussion in committee, the lack of recruitment of 195 police officers within the framework of the OCSC. Minister, what are the solutions to ensure that the enforcement of convictions is effective and effective? Have you considered the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Justice in order to improve the functioning of the criminal enforcement investigation? Do you and your colleague the Minister of Finance contribute to improving collaboration with other services - such as the FPS Finance NWA Office? Can you tell me how many magistrates, by public prosecutor's office, are currently dealing with EPRs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u39	Dear colleague, on 5 May, I visited the Central Seizure and Confiscation Board (CCBO) in particular for this issue and to meet and discuss at length with the staff. Several measures have been taken to optimize the effectiveness of sanctions: the law was amended by the law of 28 November 2021 to make justice more humane, faster and firmer. The magistrates of the criminal enforcement investigation (EPE) now have more direct access to the Central Contact Point for Financial Accounts and Contracts (PCC) set up within the National Bank of Belgium. EPE magistrates may also interview companies that provide virtual currency services. These measures facilitate the tracing and identification of bank accounts and virtual currencies belonging to convicted and malicious third parties on which the EPE magistrate may confiscate. The Central Organ's access to the CCP in the context of investigations into the solvency of convicted persons has been expanded to include all available information, including balances in the accounts held on behalf of the convicted person, which will undoubtedly help to optimize support for prosecutors outside of the EPE files that carry out confiscations. The Judicial Training Institute (IFJ) and the OCSC organize each year training sessions for judges and judicial personnel on the subject of confiscation. An EPE working group is active in the criminal execution expertise network of the College of Prosecutors General. Among other things, it oversees the application of the College's penal circulars. It manages a series of models for judges, formulates good practices and considers policy solutions for bottlenecks in these cases. The Board participates actively in the work of the working group. The College of the Public Prosecutor's Office has also taken steps to optimize the administrative management of these cases by issuing circulars, namely COL 01/2021 (Uniform Registration of Enforcement Criminal Investigations) and COL 02/2021 (Encoding Enforcement Criminal Investigations), addenda to COL 4/2020. As far as the NWA offices are concerned, they have been abolished. Within the General Administration of Collection and Recovery (AGPR) of the FPS Finances, collection teams are responsible for the collection and collection of both tax and non-tax claims. In order to improve the knowledge of FPS Finance officials, the FPS recently organized training on criminal fines and confiscations. Both the employees of the FPS Finance AGPR and those of the Judicial Order participated. In addition to the transfer of knowledge, good practices have also been shared between the finance and justice administrations. The Board makes a substantial contribution to the collection of confiscations by giving priority to the sums owed for the repayment of non-taxable debts when applying article 32 of the Act of that body. In accordance with COL 14/2014, one or more reference magistrates have been appointed to each Public Prosecutor's Office, Auditorate General, Public Prosecutor's Office and Labour Auditorate, as well as to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Board. We plan EUR 1.45 million for 24 additional judicial staff, including 6 Deputy Attorney Generals, 12 experts and 6 assistants. As at 1 May, 2 substitutes, 5 experts and 2 assistants had already been recruited.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, there is evidence that some things are being done in terms of collaboration, facilitation of administrative work and training, but I think we are far from meeting the needs that would make the perception of 90% of the other files that are currently not recovered effective. I know that it does not depend only on justice, sometimes there are other difficulties that are added. But I insist that these criminal enforcement investigations be a priority. You state that you have appointed a reference magistrate in each district. This does not mean, however, that a magistrate deals exclusively with the criminal enforcement investigations (PRE). We really need to make sure that the court decisions that are handed down can be enforced, otherwise we will face serious problems. We will come back to this debate in a few months' time, when it comes to the continuation of commitments and staffing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u41	Minister, we have all read that the U.S. Supreme Court has a note ready to amend the Roe v. Wade judgment. That judgment made abortion legal throughout the U.S. in the '70s. A large number of states are now ready to apply the new law and ban abortion. Of course, the weakest people will be the victims of this. That is why there is a worldwide reaction, including in our country, where politicians are questioned by a number of organisations. As Minister of Justice, have you expressed your indignation at this leaked draft? The quarterly EU Justice and Home Affairs Council will take place on 9 and 10 June. Will you raise this issue there, so that there is a strong signal from Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u42	Mrs Jiroflée, I understand your indignation, of course. The so-called in the United States shows once again that we must not take the ethical achievements of our liberal rule of law for granted. As a government, we do not respond to this draft opinion, which was leaked in the press and which is not yet a final verdict of the Supreme Court. I can only tell you that Belgium has a clear law allowing termination of pregnancy in certain circumstances. This legal framework has the advantage, for example, of reducing the number of women who die in an illegal and medically incorrect way. Sexual education is not a taboo either, thanks to good education. Finally, Belgium is committed to prevention by offering contraceptives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u43	Minister, I understand that you cannot respond to a non-paper. In the world, however, there is great fear that it will be too late at the time of the final verdict. For the rest, I agree with you, especially with regard to the constant monitoring of ethical achievements. I would nevertheless like to urge you to make your opinion as Minister of Justice of Belgium clear and clear wherever possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u44	Dear colleague, discussions on updating the three cooperation agreements began at the end of 2021 with all partners, including the federated entities. The primary objective of these agreements was to give substance to the provisions introduced by the Act of 13 April 1995 on sexual abuse of minors with a view to preventing recidivism. As a first step, the scope of the Act was limited to parole and probation of persons convicted or interned for sexual offences committed against minors. Subsequently, the choice was made to extend the scope of cooperation agreements from the point of view of both the legal frameworks and the offences concerned. To date, many legislative developments incorporating new legal frameworks require the adaptation of these cooperation agreements. On the other hand, it is necessary to take into account the involvement of the Sixth State Reform which entered into force on 1 July 2014, which led to the transfer of the Federal State's judicial houses to the Communities. The Communities become de facto an essential partner in view of the central role given to legal assistants in the arrangements set up by these agreements. With regard to the Walloon Cooperation Agreement, the update is being taken over by the Justice FPS and is expected to be completed shortly. Discussions on the Brussels Cooperation Agreement have just begun. Given the complexity of the institutional situation in Brussels, it is not yet possible to plan the continuation of the work in detail. As far as the Flemish cooperation agreement is concerned, Flanders is the president, since the administration of justice is obviously actively involved in the discussions. The work is scheduled to be completed this year. The German-speaking Community currently depends on the Walloon cooperation agreement. Given the specific nature of its public and its institutional reality, the German-speaking Community has asked for its own agreement. Initial contacts were made with Justice. I am also aware of the budgetary issues that you raise, but before I talk about the budget, I think that the framework should be clarified. As you can see, things are moving forward on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u45	Minister, thank you. So the horizon seems to be clear in the light of the discussions that are expected to be concluded, we promise, at the end of this year. I hope that this will be the case, but let me remind you that whatever the outcome of these negotiations is, it is the federal government that is legally competent to subsidize these centres. That is precisely what you referred to in the Act of 13 April 1995. What I would like to avoid is seeing the Regions, the Maribel Social Fund or associations, as is still too often the case today, make up for the shortcomings of the federal government. On the other hand, these negotiations will ultimately have to broaden the scope of these centres because it is true that too often there is work being done on the reintegration of sex offenders at the end of the sentence when it is work that must be done at the beginning of the sentence. For this, there is no secret. There is a need to invest in the centres that deal with sexual offenders. Today, however, it is clear that the uncertainty they have over their resources undermines or even compromises reintegration projects and thus the fight against recidivism. So I would like to draw your attention to this, and I also insist that their funding be increased. There is a significant increase in the number of cases. This growth does not even correspond to the indexation of the salaries of the staff of these centres. It would be the least we can do, minister, to take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u46	Mr President, Minister, today there are three months before the official opening of Haren Prison. We still have work to do, but I still wanted to go back to the process of recruiting officers, as well as to the new functions planned, namely security assistants and detention attendants. I am concerned about this, and I have been even more so since an article published in Le Soir on April 27th, which states that fewer than 400 candidates have shown up. This is far too little for quality recruitment. This led the Director-General of the Selor, Mr Desmet, to confirm this situation in these terms. There would be few candidates who would meet the conditions; or candidates would simply not attend the next steps. According to him, this situation is due to several factors. The procedure would be too long, with too many steps. He therefore proposed that those who passed the first examination should be able to exercise directly as contractors. It is difficult to find candidates. The prison environment still doesn't appeal. Minister, can you give us an overview of the various selection procedures under way for prison officers at Haren Prison? When were the registrations opened? How many candidates have they applied for? How many of them have already been retained? How long do you need to recruit the 270 additional agents advertised? Can these procedures be relaxed, as suggested by the Selor? You mentioned last February the organisation of a recruitment event in Brussels, as well as your participation in an employment fair in Evere. What are the results of these recruitment events? Are there other similar events planned in the coming months? You stated that the ratio for the duties of security assistant and detention attendant was set at 40 and 60 per cent, respectively. With regard to the prison officers currently serving in Brussels prisons, who will be transferred to Haren, how do you envisage their transition to these two new functions? Should they also take training to become an attendant? How many officers in office have indicated their interest in each of these two new functions? Do you think that there will be enough officers currently in office who would like to become detention attendants to meet the ratio that you have set yourself? As it stands, the precise tasks of these two new functions remain nebulous. The royal decree defining them would still not have been published. When will he be? Training to become a detention attendant would normally begin before the summer. Do you confirm that? Are all preparations for such training completed? Who will provide these trainings? Have the final arrangements for these training courses already been agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u47	Colleagues, three selection procedures are under way for the position of detention attendant. A French-speaking procedure and a Dutch-speaking procedure were launched on 8 March and applications were closed. There were 367 registrations in the French-speaking procedure and 42 in the other: 162 French-speaking and 22 Dutch-speaking met the conditions for participation. An additional procedure in Dutch was launched on 12 April: candidates could register until 29 April. It is too early to get the results of the winners. Many initiatives have been taken in recent weeks to draw attention to Haren's job as a prison guard assistant. We participated in the employment fair in Evere, which attracted a hundred people. We have also collaborated with the City of Brussels, which has its own channels for disseminating information on vacancies: local missions, Brussels schools and others. It also disseminated information on the Selor exams and how they could prepare for them. Actiris the VDAB and Forem also support our campaigns through their digital channels and partners. Actiris and Forem wrote to job seekers. In addition, we have taken other initiatives to give more visibility to our vacancies on our own website "Working with Justice", on which we have published a promotional video to work in Haren and on social media; advertising and push messages via VTM-Go, LinkedIn, Youtube, Google, etc.; a press article in job@; various presentations in secondary schools, such as Saint-Guidon in Anderlecht and De Brug; banners along the Haren prison yard; interviews in Bruzz. Our job offers have been communicated on Basic Fit branch screens in Brussels and mailing campaigns via student.be While it is difficult to estimate the direct impact of these initiatives, 400 people have enrolled in the current selection procedures. This shows that our campaign is working and that justice is on the right track to position itself as an attractive employer in the labour market. In autumn, the campaigns will continue for Haren: job offers, job@ and online advertising on news sites (DPG), a major event with Actiris, VDAB and Forem, campaigns via VTM-Go Francophone equivalent, mailing campaigns with graduates of higher education and social work in the region of Brussels and Flemish Brabant. Prison supervisory assistants working in current Brussels prisons will be able to apply for the post of detention attendant in Haren through an internal selection procedure. Once they have completed the selection process, they will be trained for about five weeks. Information sessions were held during which this new position and the course of training were explained. The information will also be available in digital form via the FPS Justice Intranet. The call for applications for the internal selection procedure will then be launched. It is not yet possible to give an estimate of the number of prison monitors interested in the new post of detention attendant. After all, the internal selection procedure has not yet been launched. Of course, in addition to the internal selection process, external recruitment will also take place. On 8 March, the social negotiations with the trade unions were concluded and the protocol was signed. The draft royal decree has been adapted in the light of certain comments made by the trade unions. It will now be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. The job descriptions for the two new positions have already been forwarded to the unions and will be available to all employees after the information sessions. Finally, the training courses were developed for both positions. The current prison supervision assistants who will hold the post of detention attendant in Haren will only follow the specific training which includes an alternation between learning in the training service and learning in the field. This training will begin in September. Haren's new employees who are currently recruited will first take a course, then the specific training course. This information cycle will actually begin during the summer months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers, although I remain concerned. I have the impression that, through all the awareness-raising campaigns, the trainings that are taking place this summer, we are trying to catch up with the late start of these different recruitment procedures. In fact, you did not answer my question as to when these procedures were launched. It is, in fact, essential in order to ensure that Haren prison is opened properly in September. You also tell us that, with regard to the internal selection procedure for prison monitors, this procedure has not yet been initiated. However, we are faced with the long-standing problem of the low attractiveness of the functions for which we are now trying to recruit. Although we are changing the name of these functions, launching awareness campaigns, the people who are called to apply know that the working climate is extremely complicated, with difficult schedules, a violent atmosphere... We really need to value this function by reminding us of its social usefulness. It takes time, but next to it there are measures that take less, including the fact that today the prison officers and the directors must be Belgian. We can change that regulation, you called for it a few months ago. I wish I'd heard you about that. The selection process for Haren should also be shortened in order to lose fewer candidates. The timetable for recruitment and entry into service in Haren is problematic. As far as the new, crucial profile of a detention escort is concerned, the registrations on the Selor site are planned in September 2022 and the interviews Situation, Task, Action, Result (STAR) in Brussels, with role plays, in October and November 2022. The results of these interviews will be given in December 2022 for a prison that is supposed to open in September 2022! That really raises the question, minister, and despite your substantiated answers, I remain very concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u49	Dear colleague, as far as your first two questions are concerned, I would like first of all to point out that if drugs unfortunately return to prison on a regular basis, it is very rarely via the staff. Indeed, while the newspapers regularly refer to persons prosecuted for having introduced drugs into prison, they are almost always visitors, or even - in cases of drug drop over the walls of the prison - persons who are not visiting. Often, these drugs enter through prisoners who are allowed to leave the prison briefly and who smuggle drugs into the prison when they return. But in the vast majority of cases, prison staff have nothing to do with these offences. It is therefore not useful to make such a campaign that would give the opposite idea. Indeed, the vast majority of prison staff are very active in combating this phenomenon. It should not be concluded that because of a few rotten apples, the whole crop is bad, let alone giving this false idea. On the other hand, I can confirm to you that when such cases occur, they are followed very actively by the local management and staff services so that each confirmed fact is subject to internal disciplinary action sometimes up to the resignation of the persons concerned. In addition, once the prosecutor's office has been seized, follow-up is also provided and, of course, criminal sanctions are also possible. With regard to your third question, there is no prison particularly faced with more drugs than others, but it is true that at times there are indications that there would be more drugs entering some prisons. This information may come from staff, prosecutors, police and external agencies. At these times, specific actions can be carried out through swimming - control with anti-drug dogs. With regard to the reference to the Louvain prison, a drug control programme had been set up by analogy with drug control programmes already in place in other prisons. This was facilitated by the presence of a medical staff member who was trained as a drug adviser through the budgetary resources of DG PPE. This collaborator works with the local drug control service and with the support of the prison management to develop his programme. With regard to your fourth question, there is no prison that is more or less eligible for the drug programme. The main aim is to find specialized services within the Communities and the presence of local drug control services which are ready to engage in a partnership with prisons to offer their services. The administration is making a great deal of effort in this regard. There is close cooperation with Public Health in this area, and programmes can be defined as information and peer support sessions, short-term programmes and other long-term programmes such as drug-free sections. As far as the latter are concerned, we are looking at the possibility of a sustainable partnership of geographical distribution and appropriate infrastructure which is essential. For the moment, we find that there are more in Flemish prisons, as well as a wider range of services, than in Walloon and Brussels prisons. In total, there is an offer in nine Flemish establishments and in two Walloons. Due to the coronavirus crisis, several projects have been put on hold, but we are studying how and under what conditions we will reactivate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, I would like to thank you for reminding you of two fundamental aspects. First, prison officers should not be stoned. Indeed, it is often visitors or prisoners who take advantage of their release who bring these drugs to prison. Penitentiary officers are trained in narcotics detection, but this remains insufficient. In addition to basic training, there is continuing training, but the latter is organized when the prison directors request one. Therefore, it would be interesting to see whether it should not be made mandatory for all officers, particularly when it comes to controlling the whereabouts of returning visitors and detainees. Secondly, I must thank you for reminding you that it is important not to generalize the problem. Nevertheless, we must prevent these rotten apples - as you say - from harming the health of their fellow prisoners. Indeed, we are talking about drugs such as cannabis, of course, but also heroin or some medicines that are used without any medical supervision and whose health effects can prove terrible. I hear that, for the time being, no prison faces more drug problems than any other. Still, as you have acknowledged, there are pilot projects and initiatives that are developing here and there in some establishments rather than in others, under the impetus of the Flemish Region or local authorities. It would therefore be appropriate to consider why and whether the federal government should not carry out this task, as good practices should be mainstreamed. In any case, I can only encourage you to take any steps in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u51	Mrs Bury, the identification of minor victims of sexual abuse is always a priority of DJSOC Child Abuse The identification is absolutely necessary in order to remove minors from the abuse situation as soon as possible. Moreover, this identification usually also leads to the identification of the abuser. Most abuses occur within the family or social circle of the minor. In order to achieve this, international cooperation is strongly pursued. The Child Abuse service uses the International Child Sexual Exploitation database (ICSE), managed by Interpol headquarters in Lyon. Access is highly secure and can only be done by trained police officers who have password-protected access from their workplace in the offices of DJSOC Child Abuse. The database contains footage of victims and offenders with all the useful information provided by the 70 affiliated countries, including our country. The database provides information in real time about whether or not a victim or perpetrator has been identified. The searches are based on footage. In addition to the images, ICSE has a platform on which all associated countries, plus Interpol and Europol, can share information about detected images. On this basis, investigations can be initiated or continued. A Victim Identification Taskforce is organised twice a year within the European EMPACT project, for which DJSOC is the chair. In doing so, experts from around 30 countries work full-time in Europol's premises for two weeks to analyse images with unidentified victims, with the aim of identifying the victim or the possible country of abuse. This is then sent an information report to initiate or continue an investigation. Via DJSOC Child Abuse, Belgian police forces can question the ICSE database or provide images to feed the database. The members of DJSOC Child Abuse can also start an investigation based on images found in suspects. The images that are tracked down by tools like Arachnid are usually well-known images that are offered over and over again. The ICSE database is also involved in that story. If there are unknown images containing indications of identification, they will be transferred through this platform to the countries concerned for further investigation. These images can of course also be transferred to the VIDTFs for further exploitation. I come to your second question. There are indeed an innumerable number of abuse images on the Internet. However, any image that is removed means that somewhere in the world a victim becomes one less victim. We must not forget that the larger the Arachnid database and other similar tools, the faster more images can be deleted. I think the work Child Focus has put into this deserves better than a drop on a hot record. I suggest that you or the Child Focus Committee visit and that you be fully informed of what they can effectively achieve with these additional resources made available by the Justice Department. In any case, they are very excited about that. The use of artificial intelligence with associated algorithms should be considered. EMPACT is working on this and DJSOC is also active in a number of related projects. However, it must be said that there is a lack of adequate legislation at both European and international level. Such legislation is absolutely necessary to prevent the cure from being worse than ailment. EMPACT supports activities at European level in this area. Finally, I would like to point out that the human aspect must still be decisive. Technology and artificial intelligence are not infallible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u52	Minister, you are giving exactly the same answer as Mrs Verlinden. You read the same answer identically. I know that these minors are a priority, but how many unprecedented cases are there and what statistics are available? I admit, however, that question was not asked here today. I will therefore put that question in writing. It is very important to find out how many videos are analyzed by your services and how many victims are identified, which means that the perpetrators are usually caught. If we don't, we're gonna go around the pot here. The task force meets twice a year. That too is important, because it will allow us to check whether enough is being identified. How many victims aren't identified? I will certainly submit that question. With regard to Child Focus, you talked about a drop on a hot record, which suggests that I would speak denigratingly about that. That is absolutely not the case. You can see for yourself that 430,000 images are being analyzed every year, while approximately 19 million sexual abuse images are likely to be posted online every day. That's what it's about, it's not like I wouldn't appreciate the work of Child Focus. As far as algorithms and artificial intelligence are concerned, I hear you and your colleague saying that their use should be considered. Of course, we know that a final human judgment will still be needed, but I would like to know from you when that will be looked at effectively. I heard you warn that the cure may not be worse than the ailment, but if you know what the ailment is, then I believe that a strong remedy is in place. I cannot imagine that any cure is worse than the one called child abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u53	Mrs Rohonyi, we had a first consultation with the recognized professional federation Federgon, our administration and a representative of the Central Judicial Case. On the basis of this consultation, our administration will suggest a number of concrete proposals to modernise the criminal record. We intend to include a reform of the Central Judicial Case in a new HRF Act No. 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your concise answer, but we cannot be clearer and more committed. I thank you for taking the problem with the body and implementing these meetings to move towards a new law; I think that is really essential. Indeed, today, this criminal record law is far too rigid and disproportionate. It's the same for the rehabilitation procedure. I look forward to this text, which will be tabled shortly on Parliament's table, so that we can ensure that we finally achieve the objective of reintegration while achieving the other, equally essential, objective of ensuring the safety of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u55	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u56	Madam President, Mrs Bury, we have indeed taken note of the Commission's legislative proposal on combating and preventing child sexual abuse material online, which was made public on 11 May. Such a proposal is necessary if we are to achieve an equivalent approach in the EU Member States to counter this phenomenon. The creation of a European Centre for Child Abuse, which is part of this proposal, will be an enormous added value in the fight against sexual child abuse. This European Centre will strengthen existing national and international initiatives. That will certainly benefit the position of Child Focus. After all, Child Focus works closely with the INHOPE network to identify victims as soon as possible and to take images offline. The European Centre will provide a very high added value for INHOPE, as it will facilitate the exchange of information between various judicial authorities and hotlines. Thus, both new and known materials will be able to be removed more efficiently. This legislative proposal from the European Commission is a first step in a legislative process. The Member States will then discuss this proposal within a Council working group. Changes to the text may be made during this process. As always, Belgium will make every effort to establish a correct and balanced position within the Council during these negotiations, taking into account both the protection of fundamental rights and human rights and the protection of vulnerable groups. Belgium has a procedure to block and remove illegal online material. This procedure aims to make websites containing such material permanently inaccessible as soon as possible. It shall also take into account the capacity and investigative obligations of the judicial authority. At the same time, the implementation of this procedure strengthens cooperation at international level with regard to the fight against this type of material on the Internet. In addition, we intend to continue the fight against the sexual exploitation of children. Innovation and technology can play an important role in this. That is why I recently awarded a grant of EUR 186 000 to the Arachnid project. Arachnid is a digital tool that automatically detects and reports images of sexual abuse of minors. These images end up in the Arachnid Orb. Arachnid is linked to the aforementioned ICSE database and can immediately connect the images to victims who have already been identified. Arachnid scans tens of thousands of potentially problematic images per second. The classification and reporting of the images in the Arachnid tool can ensure that fewer such images circulate on the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u57	Mr. Secretary, it's a little confusing. That Arachnid you're giving 186,000 euros to, according to what I've read, is a tool that the analysts can do more, and which probably also allows more analysts to work, because it's too incriminating. They can only do that a few hours a week. You say 10,000 images per second are being analyzed. I don't think this is right. It also says that the 186.000 euros you release will allow the analysts who are deployed to analyze 430,000 images a year. That can't be 10,000 a second. You mentioned the human aspect that you support, by giving extra resources to it. Great! However, what I was talking about in my third question was that automatic tool. I was talking about artificial intelligence and algorithms. Those can be important because, as I quote in my question, Google and Snapchat actually report nothing, and Facebook only a particle. Now we could scan those Internet platforms automatically. We see 7.4 million hits in the Netherlands. That's huge, isn't it? I don't think this is what Arachnid means, do I?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u58	It's exactly what you're saying. When I was talking about scanning 10,000 images per second, it was about Interpol's ICSE database that Arachnid is linked to. It can immediately connect the images to already identified victims. By linking these two, one can know that an image can be found in the database and that something can be done with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u59	Okay, thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic792x.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the questions which could not be asked today have been postponed, with the exception of Question No 55027882C by Mrs Cécile Cornet and Question No 55027483C by Mr Sander Loones, which have become irrelevant in the absence of news from their authors.
