ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u3	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u4	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is one of my most interesting issues. Madam Secretary of State, Eva De Bleeker, was apologized today for attending a European meeting. That was also announced in advance and she gave us the opportunity to ask additional questions. We have every respect for the fact that there are foreign agendas. However, I was immediately curious to see who would replace the relevant Secretary of State. My first thought was that of course it would be the prime minister. We are talking about the same political family and the budget of his government. So I was hoping for Alexander De Croo, but it turned out to be wrong. Then I thought of Deputy Prime Minister Van Quickenborne, to whom the Secretary of State has been added. He too is a member of Open Vld, and I thought they would certainly be on their qui-vive as it is about the budget. It seems, however, that Minister Van Quickenborne does not want anything to do with the budget. Like the Prime Minister, he wants to stay as far away from it as possible. However, I am pleased with whom it has finally become, namely Secretary of State Dermine. Mr Secretary of State, you may not be Prime Minister, but you are the first State Secretary in rank. There is a ranking within the government and Mrs De Bleeker is unfortunately lowest in rank. But you, Mr Dermine, are the first Secretary of State. That is fun, but you also have a very own view of the budget. Furthermore, you're pretty much the spoke spear of your party, the PS. So I am particularly pleased to be able to discuss this adaptation sheet with you, because it is not about nothing. It's about extra expenditure from the corona crisis, among other things. It is also about expenditure that needs to be linked to reform policy. You have very strong opinions on this. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to hear your views on this matter. In addition, we have the great advantage that Madam Secretary of State gave a number of interviews this morning on the radio and in the newspaper, in which she made some statements. That gives me an immediate chance to organise some sort of virtual debate between you and the Secretary of State. I have written down some of her quotes and I am very curious if you, speaking on behalf of the Secretary of State, will convey the same message as the Secretary of State. Let's go. You're lucky, it'll be easy for you, because there's good news. The headline in Het Laatste Nieuws was "Budget deficit 2021 significantly smaller." Makes your job easier. Good news, at least in Latest News. Whoever reads Time will immediately get a different picture. What headlines Time, a little more correct? "Budget figures remain blood red." Dark red. We only have a deficit of 30 billion, all the governments in this country combined. That's good news, it says in Latest News. Hooray, a lower budget deficit. It's only 30 billion! That is far more than the budget deficit we inherited from the Di Rupo government at the time. Besides, the only reason why the deficit has fallen is because there is inflation. It's dropped in relative terms. If you take corona into account and take it lightly, then we still have a budget that is structurally in the red, with more than 3%. So I think that the communication in Time might be a little more consistent with the economic reality than that in The Last News. Moreover, the relative ratio of public debt to GDP is somewhat lower. Government debt would fall, which is not difficult with economic growth and inflation. So that only applies in proportion, in relative terms. Moreover, next year, in 2022, growth will not rise so phenomenally. So that's gonna be a bit of a problem. Mr Secretary of State, if you have read The Latest News, it seemed to be a walk in the park, but if you have read De Tijd and have heard me in the meantime, you will have to decide that things are not going so well. Moreover, what is on the table tonight is actually even less than not so good, because we are going to do extra spending. A deficit of more than 3% is not enough, Vivaldi is about to vote on an additional deficit of 218 million euros. This year is a month old and an additional 200 million is added. Mr Secretary of State, the first reason for this is Corona. Let us be honest, a budget is always, by definition, out of date. A figure is put on paper and the next day another figure already applies. Especially in corona times it is particularly difficult to bury, that is not so obvious. Here again we see that impact. In 2020, around 20 billion was spent on corona and by 2021, nearly 14 billion more were added. What Mrs De Bleeker said in the press this morning was very interesting. She claimed that the government has done a lot of business, invested and supported companies. She also said: "In the short term, we must reduce the corona support by spring as much as possible." Mrs De Bleeker says that it is not a good idea, in the short term, to bring this down in the spring. It shouldn't happen by summer, it should happen in spring. That is a strange statement, especially since we are going to vote on an additional 200 million here and I see that the government continues to spend more and more. Anyway, she says the corona support should be reduced by spring. Mr Secretary of State, do you agree with her? Mr Dermine, speaking for Mrs De Bleeker, do you agree with her? There are two possible answers. Do you also think that this corona support should be reduced as much as possible in the short term by spring? Secondly, it's not just about corona, the problem goes deeper, of course. There is far too much structural expenditure in this country. That budget is simply not well in structural terms. Those expenses aren't just because of corona. If you filter out the corona expenses, we are still a lot above 3 %. Over the last two years, under your government, the budget deficit has increased by 1.5%. Mrs De Bleeker replied that savings and reforms must be made. Let us be honest, we often have the impression that Mrs De Bleeker is calling in the desert. De Tijd put it this morning as follows: "As a new Secretary of State, she does not have the political weight to call the PS to order."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u6	Time says it's a good thing Mrs. De Bleeker is trying, but she doesn't have the political weight. The PS is just too dominant in the Croo government. Mrs. De Bleeker will keep fighting. She says today in the media that she, as a liberal, thinks that the middle class cannot continue to pay for the debt and she has the impression that the PS has now understood that. The message that we need to spend out of the crisis, that we need to spend more and more money, sounds much less loud today, according to Mrs De Bleeker. According to her, Mr. Dermine is now selling much less tough talk. That's a good evolution. Mr Secretary of State, have you indeed understood that increasing debts, such as EUR 200 million this evening, are not necessarily the most sensible option? So will you stop pleading that more and more debts are not such a huge issue? You say it is not obvious, so you make nuances there, but not to the extent that Mrs De Bleeker makes it. Mrs De Bleeker also says that she has the impression that you have understood. Tonight's extra spending, EUR 200 million, means additional debts in a country that is already champion of budget deficits. That always means a risk. That money must be repaid and it must also be paid for with interest. That is another theme that is very close to your heart. Mrs. De Bleeker is worried. She said in the press this morning that the pressure from the European Central Bank is beginning to increase seriously in order to raise interest rates. It doesn't make her happy. Indeed, an additional percentage point of interest means an additional interest charge of EUR 600 million. It suspects that the ECB will move before the end of the year. In America there are also a number of evolutions. Of course, Mrs De Bleeker believes that the discussion is also political. The southern countries do not want an increase in interest rates. You might expect Mrs De Bleeker to be also in the position of southern Europe, but that is not true. We have about southern European debts, but Mrs De Bleeker is looking at them differently. We must not make debts and we must worry about interest rates policy. It is not in favour of this lax policy of the European Central Bank. Literally, Madam Secretary of State says that anything we lend can become more expensive. In her view, therefore, the need for reform. The word has been given: reforms. 'Cause that's what it's about, of course. Mrs De Bleeker is very much in favour of this. You really need it. Because, as Secretary of State responsible for that European Investment Fund and the recovery plans, you have submitted projects, but you have also made a number of promises. You have promised that reforms will follow. In fact, that must be done very soon. The first moment you will have to comment on the European Commission is coming soon, in April. You've already had an exchange of views. It's a coincidence that you're sitting here tonight. I want to take this opportunity, because it is an important reform week. We read all over the press that there's a labor deal coming up, a big job deal. Mrs De Bleeker wants that very clearly. It says that the expenditure that is being incurred is simply not well in structural terms and that reforms need to be made. So I come to my third question to you. Are these reforms coming this week? What do you do to ensure that this is the case? But above all, have you been in contact with the European Commission, at least informally? What does the Commission think of that? Our impression, at least according to what we read in the press, is that what comes on the table is not that huge. It would be good if you could give me some more information on that. That was my third question. I have two more questions. We have had corona, structural policy, interest rate policy linked to reforms. It's all trouble. Then we come to the fourth problem: the Vivaldi problem. It is not just expenditure on corona, it is not just structural expenditure. Structural expenditure is a problem for Belgium, for the sake of clarity. On top of that comes the problem of Vivaldi. There doesn't seem to be a day going by or your government is spending extra money. We are a month away, and you are asking for EUR 200 million on top of a budget that already has a deficit of around EUR 17 billion. That was the amount normally budgeted for 2021. We also read about this in De Tijd this morning: 'Every vivaldi agreement is accompanied by additional expenditure'. Always more and more. We have seen this in the budget format for 2022. EUR 3 billion had to be saved, but only EUR 2 billion was actually saved, and there was already EUR half a billion in additional expenditure. The year is a month away, and again EUR 200 million in additional expenditure. We have had the debate on the energy bill. There is EUR 1.1 billion in additional expenditure, but no explanation has been given as to how it will be financed. My fourth question is therefore the following. You have been briefed by the Secretary of State, and I know that her cabinet is also following this debate, so they can help you with this question. Today we get the first sheet of budget adjustment. We're a month away. Did Madam Secretary of State give you a message when we can expect the second magazine? In the meantime, the numerator is rising, and it continues to rise at a rather rapid pace As a reminder to colleagues, the International Monetary Fund expects Belgium to have the highest deficit of all countries in 2024. However, your government continues to spend extra money and does not continue to indicate exactly how it is going to finance it. So, practical question: when is that second adaptation sheet coming? And finally, a little personal question. This is Mrs. De Bleeker's adaptation sheet, this is her job. When is Mr Dermine's adaptation sheet due? We have had this debate a number of times in the past. The De Bleeker adjustment sheet concerns 218 million euros of additional expenditure, but the Dermine adjustment sheet could amount to 1.3 billion euros of less revenue. An additional deficit of EUR 1.3 billion! The discussion is well known to you. From Europe, all the governments in this country would receive EUR 5.9 billion, but given the poorly negotiated parameters, this could lead to a loss of EUR 1.3 billion less! You are pleased because it proves that we would do better economically. I am not happy about that because it is less money and I think that we are already funding enough other countries in the European Union, and that there are enough net contributions already. My fifth and final question is whether you have new and recent information in this area so that, after the adaptation magazine De Bleeker, this Parliament will be able to deal with the adaptation magazine Dermine?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u7	Madam President, we naturally regret that the Secretary of State for the Budget is not present in the debate on budgetary adjustment, but we think you, Mr Secretary of State, are a more than worthy substitute in the debate on the issue of European budgetary standards. I will certainly take the opportunity to ask you a number of questions about your vision and the government's position on budgetary standards. It's a unique moment. The budget for 2022 was approved just before Christmas and the present draft law is dated 18 January 2022. A first amendment was tabled at that time. The budget has therefore lasted exactly 18 days. This once again underpins the position that we defended in plenary in December, namely that the 2022 budget is closely linked. Sloppy and incomplete budgetary work has been carried out, and this is now being proven. After 18 days, the budget needs to be adjusted in several respects. It is problematic that has not yet been said, but the Flemish interest certainly wishes to stress that the budget and the budgetary controls are normally presented to the Court of Auditors, but that this has not been done for this adjustment. We think it is important for the Court of Auditors to take a look at this by dealing separately with the adjustment, irrespective of the budgetary control normally planned in March or April. This document therefore escapes the audit of the Court of Auditors, which we consider particularly problematic for the sake of clarity. The Secretary of State made some important statements on the budget today, by chance or not. Indeed, an initial estimate has been made of the budget deficit in 2021. This morning on Radio 1 and in De Tijd the Secretary of State was very optimistic about that. We do not share that optimism at all. The impression is given that the deficit is now suddenly reduced by EUR 10 billion. According to the latest estimates, the deficit would be reduced from EUR 40 billion to EUR 30 billion, a difference of EUR 10 billion. However, the budget approved in December already had a deficit of EUR 33 billion. The difference is therefore not EUR 10 billion but EUR 3 billion. They're making a lot of fuss about that right now. EUR 3 billion in a budget that we have today with a deficit of EUR 30 billion is really not significant in terms of difference and certainly cannot justify euphoria. A second case that needs to be corrected is something that the Secretary of State stated literally in De Tijd. I quote her: 'We must not dramatize the short-term impact of the increase in interest rates'. If the interest rate increases by 1 percentage point, the cost to the government would be 600 million euros. However, the State Secretary gives the figures for entity I, which is the federal government and social security. While she was talking about the figures for the joint government, she is now suddenly talking about the figures for the federal government alone. The impact of an interest rate increase on the common government is not EUR 600 million but EUR 800 million. Take a small billion euros. In the meantime, the Secretary of State knows the tricks of the foor. If it suits her, she talks about the joint government. If she is better off, she only quotes the figures for entity I. That is not serious for a Secretary of State for the Budget. For the sake of clarity, we do not share the optimism of the Secretary of State. The figures in this country's budget are quite red. I have just noted that the way the budget was drawn up is neither serious nor its content. After 18 days, we already have to make an adjustment. The method adopted by the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State, the Croo-De Bleeker method, has failed across the board. That is also what I indicated here in December 2021. The current government is therefore failing in its efforts to cope with future crises. Besides, that's not just what we're saying. That also states the governor of the National Bank of Belgium who literally stated that we have no buffers if there is a new economic crisis. There's going to be a crisis. The only question is when. If we do not provide for buffers, there will be a Greek scenario in five years' time. Then the most vulnerable are the socialists and certainly the PS will have an ear for this; so I will repeat it again: 'the biggest victim'. That is very important to stress. The euphoria the Secretary of State now uses in the press is totally and completely misplaced. The situation is really worrying. What I just quoted are not our words, but the prophetic words of the governor of the National Bank. The Secretary of State for the Budget denied the impact of inflation in December, but in the latest interviews it seems to return to this. It is clearly beginning to realise that inflation, rising prices, will have a negative impact on the budget, as we said in December. The Minister then denied that and repeatedly confirmed that she saw inflation, which is rising prices, as something budget-neutral. That is completely wrong, however, and we do not agree with it. In our view, inflation does indeed have a negative impact on the budget. The Secretary of State is also seeing that. The Secretary of State, however responsible for the Budget, is not sufficiently prepared for an increase in interest rates. The rise in interest rates will have a major impact. In the article in De Tijd, the Secretary of State sees the reduced deficit from 33 billion to 30 billion explained to a large extent by a strong increase of 2 billion euros in VAT revenue. I would remind you that in the debate on the VAT reduction on gas and electricity, Mrs De Block was still talking about farm deception. That was the language of the liberals. It now appears that the gap in the budget is partly closed by rising VAT revenues. We have always argued that rising VAT revenues are actually going directly into the bottomless pits of the vivaldi government. Those amounts must return to the population. Contrary to the optimism of the Secretary of State for the Budget, we consider it important to stress that according to the IMF, Belgium will have the largest deficit in the EU this year. Problem countries such as Spain, France, Italy and even Greece are doing a lot better in this respect. Belgian public expenditure at 55% of GDP is still among the highest in Europe. The gap with our neighbouring countries has even widened in the 20 years in which liberals are part of the Belgian Government. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to question you about another important interview in De Tijd. You advocated more flexible Maastricht standards for climate investment. I assume you always speak on behalf of the government. In that interview, you argued in favour of investing EUR 5,000 billion over the next 10 years. You will find it necessary to achieve the objectives of Paris. You think that the green ambitions of your government, but also of Paris, clash with the 3% standard and advocate some kind of immunity to green investments. You said that if we invest 5 000 billion over the next 10 years, the European debt ratio will rise from 100 % to 137 %, but that is relative, because current interest rates will reduce the risk of long-term debt. We dare to dispute that, because there is clearly a trend towards rising interest rates. You also said that we must generalise the way in which the European Recovery Fund has been designed today and therefore apply the financing techniques of the European Recovery Fund much more in future. So it is not a one-off recovery fund, but you think it should become a permanent mechanism to support the climate. In your opinion, this means that 20% to 40% is financed by new European taxes and the fight against fraud, and calls for a minimum tax for multinationals, a digitaks and a carbon tax. There's no way it's gonna work for the P.S. The taxes are on us and certainly the new European taxes, as long as it can feed the climate religion. Hence my question to you, Mr Secretary of State. Mrs De Bleeker concluded her interview in De Tijd with the announcement that the debate on the reform of Maastricht standards will take place at European level in the spring. Belgium has still not made its position known, so today is the time to clarify matters. According to Mrs De Bleeker, maintaining the standards would be obvious. It argues for this, with a separate treatment for productive investment, even if it means that it might end up on the penalty bench. It is even prepared to sit on the European criminal bench, of which it is noted. Mr Secretary of State, are you and is the government still in favour of abandoning the 3% standard and abandoning green climate investment for the 3% standard? Do you think that the idea of the 60% standard on public debt should be put on the spot? Do you think that the European Recovery Fund should become a permanent mechanism? Do you still think that additional European taxes and debts should be made? Who will ultimately speak on behalf of the federal government in the debate with the European Commission on European budgetary standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u8	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, like my colleague Sander Loones, I knew that Mrs Eva De Bleeker could not be present tonight. But it was with a certain surprise that I learned that the Secretary of State, who is – as can be said – an ultraliberal woman had chosen to be replaced by a Secretary of State belonging to the PS. I do not know what can be drawn from it as a political conclusion. Ministers are usually replaced by colleagues from their party. In any event, this is an interesting way of doing things, since there is a major contradiction between the fiscal austerity policy personified by Mrs De Bleeker and the public investment policy you are responsible for. I will be speaking on a specific subject in a few moments. It can be said that this first budgetary adjustment is minimal in terms of the amounts involved. You can even say that the most interesting thing would be to talk about everything you can't find there. But I will save this long and tedious exercise. I am sure that my colleagues will be grateful. I would like to briefly address three points in this text. The first point is Justice. For the Justice FPS, the adjustment amounts to some EUR 14 million for special actions relating to specific security measures. When I asked the Secretary of State in committee for clarification, she replied: "I am not in a position to say more. The file is classified as confidential." As part of this budgetary exercise, we are responsible for exercising parliamentary control. We see 14 million and we want to know what it is. We ask the question and we are told that "it's confidential, there's nothing to say." The Secretary of State has nothing to say! Mr Dermine, perhaps you are in confidence and can you tell us a little more than Mrs De Bleeker? If so, don't hesitate, let go! The second point is the police. For the police, the adjustment covers EUR 79.3 million to renovate the IT infrastructure of the integrated police, but there is nothing to improve the police's salary, nothing to do with career ends – the NAPAP system – not to mention the lack of resources for the Federal Judicial Police, which will be the subject of an arrest by several colleagues, including my colleague Nabil Boukili. Here, we just have means for computer science. Obviously, machines are more pampered than humans in this fiscal policy. In committee, the Secretary of State replied: "The cost of the NAPAP system, or end-of-career scheme, has not been foreseen, because it is structural expenditure." I didn't understand what she meant. If you understood, I would be interested, Mr. Secretary of State. If NAPAP funding is not included in the budget, what will happen, as the system has not yet been removed from the law? What is going to happen, if not in the federal budget, is that it is going to be in the budgets of the cities and municipalities, and that it is they who are going to bear the weight, while their financial situation is already catastrophic. The municipalists who are here will tell you. Mr Piedboeuf will confirm that the situation in cities and municipalities is particularly disastrous. Third and last point, the Régie des Bâtiments. For justice, it's motus because it's confidential. For police career purposes, it's missing because it's structural. For the Régie des Bâtiments, it can be said that this is virtual because the planned budgets are insufficient enough not to say completely insufficient in relation to the needs. What are these needs? Last September, the Secretary of State, Mathieu Michel, estimated that it was necessary to invest five billion over the next ten years to upgrade the real estate assets of the Régie des Bâtiments: five billion over ten years! These are indeed essential issues. Renovating all this building is particularly important from an environmental point of view. It is indeed difficult for the government to say to the citizens: "We have climate goals. Isolate your houses, but we, our public buildings, for now, do nothing. We're gonna let them lose some energy to pull." If you follow me in the calculation, Secretary of State, five billion euros over ten years, that's half a billion dollars a year. And how much is released in this budgetary adjustment for the year 2022? We're unlocking twelve and a half million! Compared to half a billion, you'll admit there's a margin! At this rate, to reach Mr Michel's five billion, it is not ten years that it takes as it is, but four hundred years. You will admit that to renovate buildings, four hundred years, it is a little slow especially when you know that a building usually died in thirty years. What did the Secretary of State say to me in committee? That's where I'm interested in your opinion. She said, "Budgetizing is making choices." She's right. That's right! The choice of government is clear, but it is particularly questionable. It would be interesting to know what you think. The most important thing is that the most important part of this tiny investment will not be used to isolate or to do things like this. This will serve to degrade the conditions of public service workers. In particular, this will be used to organize the move with a view to reducing the area of the offices. For example, FPS Finance officers will no longer work in the famous Finance Tour (the Finto), which is not very far from here. No, they're going to the North Galaxy building near North Station. These buildings will be built according to the principles of the New Way of Working - it is usually anglicisms that prevail in this area. These principles include, in particular, desk sharing, according to which workstations are no longer assigned to a fixed person, with each worker having to take place where he or she finds a free job. At the end of his working day, he emptys his office, according to the principle of clean desk. How could we translate the desk sharing into French? In my opinion, the best expression is "musical chaise". We organize what I will not call a game, because I am not sure that it amuses the workers, but a musical chair system, knowing that, for every 100 natural persons, there are only 40.9 jobs left - less than one job for two workers. Similarly, the area decreased from 13.5 m2 to 10.5 m2 per workstation. In addition, bulkheads are not permitted in this device. Studies have shown that the more the workspace becomes shared and depersonalized, the more the worker feels dehumanized. This is a situation that exacerbates the isolation of workers. Because of greater proximity or noise, they are forced to wear a helmet or Quiet balls in order to isolate themselves, but this isolation in itself poses a problem, as it leads to a change in the traditional spatio-temporal landmarks. This is a psychosocial risk factor, given that the standardization and depersonalisation of the workspace give rise to a feeling of dehumanisation whose consequences are dramatic for the organisation of work itself - which is problematic for the authorities - but also obviously for the workers themselves. In the wake of the co-vid crisis and the resulting telework, the authorities and private firms take advantage of this in order to transfer occupational constraints which fell to the employer to the worker, since it is he who ultimately has to take over the development of an office, electricity, heating, internet connection, etc. against bonuses that are usually ridiculous. We have a problem when the worker goes to work in these shared spaces and we also have a problem, financial one – and sometimes psychological too – when he is on telework. The balance sheet of this budgetary adjustment is not particularly positive, in any case on the few points I have mentioned. You will therefore understand, unless the Secretary of State provides extraordinary elements in his response, that we will not be able to support this budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u9	First of all, I apologise to Mr De Bleeker, who could not be here tonight. Mr Van Hees, there is no major contradiction in my presence here tonight. Rather, see the logic of an organized turn long before we know Mrs De Bleeker's absence. You can sleep alone tonight! On the other hand, the only major contradiction that I see – and I admit that I am really delighted to slip into the budget minister's shoes for one evening – is that the same budget is treated by some as an endless socialist gabegy that supports purchasing power and spends, and is seen by others as an ultraliberal orthodox budget. I therefore come to the conclusion that, in the end, this budget must not be so bad! I'll be very careful. It is not unknown to you that I do not always agree with my colleague, Eva De Bleeker. But we are part of the government together and we share common positions. Mr Van Hees, you had three questions about the projects in justice. On your first two questions, I must inform you that I do not have any additional information. For the third question, I think you're being a little too harsh on my colleague responsible for the Buildings Control. There is an additional investment programme for the Government of the Buildings. For example, the Relance Plan allocates more than 200 million euros to projects of the Buildings Regie. I come to the question of accommodation, shared offices, etc. These are subjects which, in my personal capacity, challenge me because of their impact on the working environment. With telework, consideration must be given, even for environmental reasons, to the use of offices. There are not only negative elements associated with this development. For example, I am pleased to see that this brings about positive changes in my administration, the administration of the Federal Science Policy (BELSPO). Thus, there is no longer any difference since the chairman of the steering committee is also in flex desk. So we have a perfect form of equality on the work platform. This allows for much healthier and looser exchanges between the different hierarchical levels. I agree with you that this raises a series of questions about well-being at work. But if it is well accompanied, it may also have certain advantages. I also agree with you when you say that this should not lead to additional burdens for workers. Savings that can be realized through the reduction of office space must be made available to the latter, precisely so that they do not have to bear additional costs, be they energy equipment or bills. This is all the more true during this period of high energy prices. Mr Loones, you asked if the corona support should be limited in time. Mr Draghi once said about monetary policy: 'Do whatever it takes'. For the corona support so I say as long as needed, but not a day longer if it is not necessary. Our corona support measures were really a marathon and we did very well. The absence of corona support would have a drastic impact on our country's economic engine. It would be stupid to end up too early if we saw the arrival line in a few weeks. As long as needed, but it shouldn't take a day longer than necessary. Spend your way out of the crisis, that was the best thing to do. Now that growth rates are rising again, we need to see how we can move towards a more balanced path. I read the news from the European Central Bank about interest rates. The forward guide is still 2 % before the end of the year. So it is not a big risk, but there is indeed a risk of permanent inflation. This will lead to a review of the Central Bank's interest rate policy. We shouldn't be too scared, the average maturity of our debt is over ten years. We are supposedly protected against an increase in interest rates in the short term. We're gonna have to keep an eye on that. I will not comment on Vivaldi's so-called fourth problem. If you look at today's labour market figures, Belgium has hardly ever done so well. The effectiveness rate has never been this high in the last ten years. Business confidence is also very high, higher than during the 2014-2017 period. The difference between the number of unemployed before and after the crisis is minus 60,000. So yes, we have pursued an extensive budgetary policy, but it was necessary first of all to protect our economic engine, and secondly there are tangible results in our economy. U vroeg naar of "Second Fiscal Adjustment Paper". I got a whatsapp about that from Eva De Bleeker who said: "At this point, the documents are at the Inspector of Finance. Secretary of State Eva De Bleeker will present the series the second week of March." As regards the adaptation of the Feuilleton-Dermine on the recovery plan, the final amounts of our European Recovery Plan will not be known until the end of June 2022. I had a conversation with the National Bank of Belgium yesterday and they will transfer the final figures to Europe in April, so that we can get the latest estimates by the end of June. Finally, as far as European rules are concerned, this is a very important discussion that must be held at European level. My colleague Van Peteghem is part of Ecofin, but we are working with Mrs De Bleeker on the position of Belgium. We must have standards, but the current system of the Stability and Growth Pact has a very negative impact on the level of investment. In the 1970s and 1980s Belgium as well as other European countries had a public investment level of 6% or 7%. Since the Stability and Growth Pact, it has been 2% or 3% for all European countries. I think the greatest challenge for our generation is transition. Let's agree that we disagree, but I think this is the biggest challenge for our generation. We need to invest extra money to upgrade our infrastructure in terms of mobility, renovation of buildings and energy network. That will require investment. If we are to achieve the ambitions of the Paris Agreement, we must invest more. That is our responsibility to our children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, it is always a pleasure to have a debate with you, because you always say something. Every now and then you're spinning around the pot, but all right, we're all politicians. However, you do make a number of points. For example, you say quite honestly that you disagree with Mrs De Bleeker on several points. You also acknowledge that you are in the government together and that you are working on it together. I think you are misinterpreting our statements. A contradiction, that's left to right. That's not what we've seen here. My point is that you spend a lot of money. Mr Van Hees's point is that you need to spend more money. He doesn't say you should spend less. You need to spend a lot more money as a government. That's no contradiction, that's the transcendent stairs. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u11	The covenant? On the contrary! I do not agree, but I see that you are part of a government that... You're part of a government that spends money through windows and doors. Every day there is a new press release and every day an extra edition. Someone who has to worry about that, Mr Verherstraeten, is your Minister of Finance. After all, we all know that if there are deficits and we do not want to save or reform, we are always looking at the same minister to raise additional revenue. The tax burden has already increased with this government by EUR 2 billion, but that is another debate. Perhaps I can reply in the same way as Mr Dermine and say that we are actually in good shape, because the European Union believes that we have the worst budget in Europe. Since optimism is a moral duty and the only way is up we can only do it better. We're the worst student today, so the good news is that we can only move forward. That's a good message. So let this be the ambition. By the way, I've heard half of things here and there that might be hopeful. Firstly, as regards my first question, do you agree that the corona aid should be phased out by spring? I found your point interesting: as long as necessary, but not a day too long. That is a good answer, but of course it is a political slogan, a vague principle. But at some point you made that concrete when you said that the arrival line is within a few weeks. The facts will indeed have to prove that on the ground, no one has a glass ball. But at least I wrote it down, and let's hope that the arrival line is indeed within a few weeks. I can only interpret it unless there are special developments that the aid measures will soon come to an end. You say that the end of the crisis is within a few weeks, and I think that is a very interesting timing, which I will certainly remember and give to the Secretary of State for further debates in the Committee on Finance and Budget. Secondly, on my question whether it is good to continue to make debts, you also had a very interesting answer. The politics you conducted with this government was to spend our way out of the crisis. That is an interesting point of view, but it is also an answer of principle which is not entirely concrete. Here too, however, you made it concrete when you said that we need to move towards a more balanced path. You have literally said that this route was justified for the sake of corona, but that it is not balanced. You have said very specifically that we must move towards a balanced path, in which we make fewer deficits. I think that is a very interesting and quite concrete position. In the ambition the only way is up will certainly help us. I shall then come to my third question. Once again, we have EUR 200 million in additional expenditure. Shouldn't we start thinking if the government can keep paying for all that? Shouldn't there be reform? That's where I was really disappointed with your answer. That's the new rigging. I've heard that answer in several interviews. If I remember correctly, I have heard the same thing from Mr Vanden Burre. He said, "Where's the drama?" We've never been so good. There have never been so many people working and unemployment is low." Mr Secretary of State, these statements are, after all, at odds with reality. I've just looked at the statistics of the most recent unemployment rate. It is 4 % in Flanders. That's historically low and stable. The unemployment rate in Brussels is almost 14%. It's rising. It is also rising in Wallonia and is 9%. I have here the chart of Statbel, your statistical organization. Those aren't my grades. It is the most recent figures dating from the third quarter of 2021. If there are any more recent figures, I'd be happy to use them. It says here that the unemployment rate in Brussels increases to 13.8% and in Wallonia to 9%, but in Flanders it remains stable at 4%. That doesn't include any questionable looks. This includes, above all, the look of fear and certainly not the statement that we are doing very well. There's a huge problem in this country. What a very younger generation, especially in Brussels, are failing. They have no message of an average figure for the whole of Belgium, if they live in a region where the unemployment rate is almost 14%. The government comes here and says it's all good. I am very disappointed about that. A report from the European Cohesion Fund was published this week. You really should read that. The graphs and the cards in them show the language boundary. Wallonia deserves so much better than what's in all those statistics. There is one graph, which has lived quite well on the social media, about the households with very low work intensity rates, home families where none of the parents are actually working. Unfortunately, I cannot show it, but that is a card on which the whole of Europe, except a little bit in the south, is blue, but there is one stain that shows that too few people are working there, namely in Wallonia and Brussels. That is an exceptional island within Europe. Those aren't my grades. Those are the figures from the European Commission. The European Commission says that there seems to be such an island. It's not about the bravest of the Gauls, you know. They are parts of the Gauls who are abandoned by a misguided policy. That's in one graph after another. Population of households with very low work intensity rates. Population living in severe material deprivation , people who really don't have enough resources. Everyone is doing well, but there is one island that stands out: Wallonia and Brussels. Another graph shows the population in risk of poverty, people at risk of poverty. It's dramatic! These are dramatic figures that people really see that Wallonia is doing worse compared to France. France is doing a lot better than Wallonia. Those aren't my grades. These are figures from the European Commission. Population at risk of social exclusion. Hopla, exactly the same. Underemployment rates , astounding. I don't want to be laughing about that, it's a drama. That's a real drama! Then the Secretary of State, responsible for investment policy, says that the level of activity in Belgium has never been better and that entrepreneurial confidence has never been better. Please, we will still have to vote on many budgetary adjustments if that is the institution. Again, they're not my grades. These are figures from the European Commission. These are figures from the Belgian government's own statistical authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u12	Mr. Loones...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, I am glad that you say that the corona support will end in a few weeks' time if everything goes well. You also say that we need to achieve a much more balanced path, that we have simply over-indebted ourselves and cannot sustain it. Those are good points. I understand the fact that there are still discussions with the European Commission about the adaptation paper of Secretary of State Dermine. But please, let us not send a message that everything is going well in this country. If that's the message, you're doing a lot of people no favors at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u14	Madam President, I did not intend to react in this debate. But the problem with the words of Mr Loones – and nationalists in general – is that there is systematically a denigration of the other regions of this country. Mr Loones, I do not dispute Eurostat's figures, but I have the impression that you are enjoying the fact that the figures could actually be better in Wallonia and Brussels. I have the impression that this reinforces you in your retreat ideology. Colleagues in your political group are laughing at each other while you give these figures. I don't care! It pulls us collectively down. I discussed this with your colleague Anseeuw in committee ten days ago. The figures in Flanders are positive today. In Brussels, the situation is also improving. Actiris announced at the beginning of the year a reduction of 8% in the unemployment rate. What could we do? We should try to create prosperity together in this country rather than propose, as you do, measures that either punish or exclude or want to divide the Regions and citizens of this country. You delight in the fact that the others are doing less well than you, because at present Wallonia and Brussels are doing less well than Flanders, instead of telling you that we could try to do better together. One could try to ensure that prosperity in Flanders could benefit a little more in Brussels and Wallonia. If we were a little coherent and rational, we could imagine that. But you're not interested. What interests you is to show what is wrong and to rejoice at it! Every time you have this type of intervention, I will come back with the same words and political vision we carry as ecologists: together we can go further and we can do interesting things. The figures are improving in Wallonia and Brussels and you should be happy about that. Instead, you point your finger and sink with the greasy laughter of your friends in the background. Mr Loones, I will oppose it every time!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u15	Mr Vanden Burre, I regret that facts are being answered with an intention process and that words are being put in my mouth which I have never said and which are even completely contradicted by words that I have spoken literally. U zegt dat the figures are improving. I'm sorry, but the facts contradict you. Every graph I have just given, I invite you to look at the report of the European Cohesion Fund. Not only does the situation show ashes, but it also shows how the situation is evolving, whether it is getting better or worse. If you look at the facts, you will unfortunately see that the situation has not improved in recent years. Once again, that is not a nationalist proposal, but simply a determination of the facts, which I am not happy about in any way at all. I do not have to take the blame for having fun in it. I can easily prove otherwise. There has been a period in the very recent past where the figures in Wallonia and Brussels have improved. It may be a period that you do not like ideologically, but it was figures from the Swedish Government. More than 200,000 jobs were created then, especially in Wallonia. At that time, purchasing power increased, especially for those with the lowest wages and, therefore, especially for those living in Wallonia. Then transfers fell because we managed to get more people to work, including in Wallonia and Brussels. So we have simply proved that we do want to pursue policies and that we are naturally concerned when people are left to their fate. I repeat what I have already said, Mr Vanden Burre: Wallonia deserves better. I am absolutely not pleased with the difficult situation there. I've literally said you're abandoning a generation. Do you think those are words from someone who likes it? Everyone in this country, and especially the people of Wallonia and Brussels, deserves much better. They deserve a policy that gives them opportunities to find a job and to strengthen their purchasing power. That is why I very much appreciate your efforts, Mr Secretary of State, to set up an investment policy and ensure that the economy can flourish. It is true that we are, of course, having a discussion on how to finance this, but there is no discussion that this investment policy should be implemented. However, to hear a factual analysis answered every time, from the angle of Ecolo-Groen, with the words that I would be denigrating here about people and Flemish people better than Walen and that I would like Flanders better than Wallonia, is totally incorrect. That's not my opinion at all. In no way are the Flemish choices better than the Walloon choices. They're our choices, though. They're different choices, but that's not why they're better. If Wallonia wants to make its own choices, it's perfect for me. I'm even a fan of it. You must be able to do that for me. Why in God's name should you be held back by more center-right politicians in Flanders? If you want to do that, please do it. Why should Flanders' recipe be better than Wallonia's? That's not my opinion. I don't have any pleasure in that either. So stop the intent processes. Face the facts and get on with it. You yourself claim that you are the government of the last chance and that she must prove that this country is working. Then prove it. So let us not suppose that you are aiming for an employment rate of 80% to say at the same time that the government is doing well and that this is already perfect. Suppose 13.8% of unemployment in Brussels is not quite good. Then admit that you are not going for an employment rate of eighty percent. If the tone becomes that the government is actually doing well, stop the show. Then just tell people in the face that it's not gonna be okay and that they won't find a job. Then tell them that the government is not aiming for an employment rate of 80%. It is either one or the other: either your discourse is that the government has an ambition, that it recognises that the situation is serious, that there is a huge amount of work on the table and that labour market reforms are needed, or you simply state that the government is doing well, even if the N-VA does not say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u16	Mr Vanden Burre, you cannot imagine, even now with your hand gesture, what arrogance you are gradually speaking against a growing majority in Flanders. Your government completely ignores the reality of the state structure in this country, the way it is organised. Don't forget that your government rules with a minority in Flanders. Firstly, I have listened very carefully to you, Mr Dermine. You said that the position of Belgium, the budgetary standards, Mrs De Bleeker, will be decided by Mr Van Peteghem and you. That's what you said. What about the Länder, Mr Secretary of State? I thought Mr Loones would have noticed it and that he would defend the Flemish Government and Minister Diependaele. I don't know if you know, Mr Dermine, and do you know the reality of this country? The Flemings are still in the majority in this country. What did the Minister for Finance in Flanders say? He said that there was a need for much stricter measures at European level. Mr Diependaele has asked to be even stricter than the 3% standard. Flanders thinks that standard is too lax. In addition, the Flemish Government is asking to return to the rule that the debt should not exceed 60% and wants to make that route enforceable. The Flemish government tends to the German principle, the schwarze null, a zero deficit. If it is for productive investment, one can go below zero. The federal government, you, and I hope that you will involve the Länder when the discussion needs to be settled; they have at least as much to say as the federal government - wants 3% and an exception for green investment. Member States should no longer appoint a European Commissioner and be given less weight in the European Council. For the MR, the current Belgian situation means that Mr Reynders may forget his mandate next time, after 2024. Mr Secretary of State, do you even take the view of the Länder into account? Are you consulting with the states? Do you know the views of the Länder? It is extremely difficult for you to ignore that. Secondly, I almost fell back this morning when I read an interview with you and your chairman Paul Magnette in Humo. In it you minimize the continuous transfers of almost 7 billion euros per year from Flanders to Wallonia and even qualify them as super low. I don't know what planet you live on, but on the planet Belgium, the billions flowing to Wallonia are still huge. Anyone seeking a solution to the budget must also dare to discuss that taboo. Apparently, you are discussing this taboo only in Humo, because it cannot be discussed in Parliament. The government completely ignores the reality in this country and also ignores the Flemish majority in this country. The fact is that on the Flemish side the government controls with a minority. In that Humo interview you also refer to the structural handicaps that Wallonia has in comparison with Flanders, which is true. Your argument is equally valid for the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, because the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, for example, does not have sea ports like Wallonia, but it is prosperous. We must dare to say that the impoverishment of Wallonia and Brussels is, of course, the result of decades of maladministration, including socialism in Wallonia, the stubborn adherence to obsolete industries and the refusal to invest in renovation; let us also mention that in the Federal Parliament. I think that the minimalisation of transfers and the definition of European budgetary standards without obtaining the views of the Länder is arrogant. You deny the majority of the Flemings in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u17	Madam President, I want to reply quickly on two points to Mr Loones. I'll start with the numbers. Indeed, these are stubborn. I have here the press release of Actiris (VDAB Brussel) from early February 2022; these are the latest figures. We can obviously check after that, but I read: "At the end of January 2022, the Brussels Region experienced a 4.5% reduction in unemployment compared to January 2021. Youth unemployment fell by 7.8%, or almost 8%, in January 2022 compared to January 2021. Indeed, the overall unemployment rate in the Region is 15%." We can do better. I have the ambition to do better in Brussels, but these are numbers that are improving and it's factual, it's reality. My second point is what I blame you most. When you say that everyone chooses their policies etc., I remind you that here, in fact, we are in the Federal Parliament, in the House. All the policies that are decided here apply to the whole country. Employment policies that remain at the federal level, fiscal and fiscal policies. When you criticise and point your finger, what I ask you, what I also expect from you, even though it may not be your concern, these are proposals for this to be better across the country. That's what I fundamentally blame you for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u18	Madam President, I would like to speak once again. I think this is an excellent discussion, which is at the heart of many misunderstandings in Belgium. I therefore thank you for the quality of the exchanges and in particular for basing them on the facts. I'll start with the transfers. Yes, transfers are important in Belgium. It amounts to EUR 6 to 7 billion. But they're interpersonal transfers. The relative weight of transfers in Belgium is one of the lowest in Europe compared to those in all other countries in Europe. That says an official study of the National Bank, which is not figures of the majority or of Thomas Dermine. In France, the Netherlands and Germany transfers are up to four times higher. That's a statistical truth. Your entire political story is based on the transfers. As a young Waal, it is absolutely one of my objectives to reduce these transfers, even though they are relatively small in Belgium. If you look at pensions, you will see that the transfers are in the opposite direction, because Flanders has an older population. What is the richest province in Belgium since 2019? That is not Flemish Brabant, not Antwerp, but Walloon Brabant. If the policy in Wallonia were so bad, it would be bad in Hainaut, in Liège, but also in Walloon Brabant. How does it fit your story that Walloon Brabant is the richest province? How do you explain that the municipality with the lowest income is in Limburg? That's what the facts tell us. No one is happy in Belgium today that there are large transfers. It is the ambition of the Walloon government to reduce it. That takes time, and we're working on it. Sorry if that's not in line with your political narrative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u19	Madam President, my intention is not to extend the sauce too much. But when I hear about transfer, I can't help but think about the real transfer that there is in this country, that is, the transfer of labour to capital. The numbers are quite uplifting. When you look at the distribution of national income, you see that the share that goes to wages continues to decline and that the share that goes to capital continues to increase. Over the past few years, 1.4 percentage points of GDP have passed from the pockets of workers to the caisses des entreprises, amounting to more than €6 billion. And if you go back to the neoliberal wave of the 1980s, the gulf is tens of billions. I make the connection with the fact that both Mr. Loones and Mr. Dermine were sending back opponents a little bit. Mr Loones said that the common thread between you is that you spend more and that you are making the deficit. No! We do not want to widen the deficit. We just want to get the money out of the pockets of the workers. It is no longer necessary to block wages as this government does with Mr Dermagne's decree, but to introduce a real tax on millionaires. Looking at the semblances of taxes on the rich, the placebo taxes of this Vivaldi government, it's a copy-paste of what Finance Minister N-VA had done under Swedish, Mr Loones. The tax on securities accounts is indeed the same policy that can be found both in Sweden with the N-VA and in Vivaldi with four parties that are supposed to lead a left-wing policy. Mr Dermine, you send back even more easily back to back. You say: "Some people tell me that I'm too far to the right and others that I'm too far to the left. So I'm on the right line!"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u20	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u21	That's exactly what you said. This is the prime minister's traditional pirouette. From the moment you're here to replace the liberal De Bleeker and you're using the pirouettes of Liberal De Croo, the loop is finally closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u22	We are slightly going beyond the subject of the debate, namely the budget adjustment sheet. The fact that you are present proves that you are certainly a relevant and interesting interlocutor. I'd rather ignore the intentional processes. Mr Secretary of State, you are someone with ambition, you want to do something about it. You say you're working on it. I just want to challenge you to do the same. You have all the keys in your hands with this government today. You yourself say that your government wants to prove that Belgium can work better. Well, you have all the keys in your hands, prove it. Do it, go for it. You have every chance to demonstrate with your political programme that this country can work perfectly as it is. You have every chance now. In 2024, we will be able to evaluate whether the ambition you have just expressed to reduce the transfers has been effectively realised. We will then be able to see if your ambition for a higher level of effectiveness and additional investment has been achieved. You will not have to say afterwards that it is the N-VA's fault, because we are in the opposition. You will not have to say that it is our analysis, because that country can work well is your analysis. Do it, prove it. You have every chance to do that. Finally, you communicated rather positively about the Belgian level of activity and stated that it is better than ever. I see just now from the social media that you apparently defended the same statement together with another PS colleague in this regard. Mr Stijn Baert, labour market specialist, immediately added a rather striking graph. We can continue this discussion here, but I suggest that we do so in the social media too, so that everyone can enjoy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u23	Madam President, I would like to repeat a number of statements made by Mr Derminne. He is wise enough to know that certain things he says and also the study of the National Bank to which he refers are misleading. The Secretary of State says it's Wallonia's ambition to lower these transfers. We do not see that ambition in reality. The Walloon budget is a disaster. Without Flanders, so for Wallonia in itself, the figures are more dramatic than those of Greece. We do not see that ambition you are talking about in reality. There is no ambition to reduce transfers. On the contrary, because Wallonia derails the debt, because Wallonia dominates this government and derails the public debt, it all comes down to the roof of the Flemings and these transfers will only increase. Mr Derminne, you are wise enough to know that the study of the National Bank is misleading. There are three reasons for this. Firstly, the net recipients and net contributors you mention, Walloon Brabant and Limburg, are of course the smaller provinces. If all Flemish provinces are taken together and all Walloon commissions are taken together, you will see that all Flemish provinces together give a lot more and that the Walloon provinces together receive a lot more. Secondly, the provincial level is politically totally irrelevant. The provinces have neither financial power nor political power. For us, these provincial authorities, with the delegates and the governors, must all be abolished. So you compare it with the wrong level, not with the level of political and budgetary responsibility. The National Bank also ignores the subsidies, the flows of money received by the regions and the Communities. They are not included in this study of the National Bank. Of course, you will get a study that speaks to your advantage. If people with knowledge of the budget, professors at the University of Leuven, who have allowed the Flemish interest to do this, can see that it can easily be pierced. Like the Secretary of State, you're deliberately using misleading figures. The National Bank's study is misleading, because net there is a billion-dollar flow from Flanders to Wallonia. Any attempt by politicians to minimize this, especially in Wallonia in view of the reddish budget figures, is a blow to the face of the Fleming, and we will not accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u24	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u25	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2425/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2425/1) The bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. Articles 1 to 7 shall be adopted Article by Article and the tables in the Annex. Articles 1 to 7 shall be adopted by article and the tables set out in the Annex. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u26	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Bert Wollants, Tomas Roggeman, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Wouter Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u27	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (929/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (929/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mr Verduyckt, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has been working on the subject of palm oil for a long time. We believe that the very high consumption of palm oil worldwide should be closely monitored. That is why the motion for a resolution calls for a strong mandate for the government to do so. Palm oil has both advantages and disadvantages. Thanks to a strong framework, we can ensure that the benefits of the product in its widespread use continue to outweigh the disadvantages. Since 2018, we have been pushing ahead with the tabling of the motion for a resolution, which will now be put to the vote in plenary after the exchange of views in committee. We are all concerned about the very high consumption of palm oil, from a number of points of view. Firstly, there is the impact of the associated deforestation of tropical forests on climate and biodiversity. After all, for palm oil production, peat forests need to be grubbed up, resulting in very high amounts of CO2. Moreover, there are a number of endangered species in the main production regions of Indonesia and Malaysia that are nowhere else. Secondly, there is the damaging impact on local water resources. Thirdly, we have to read in all kinds of reports every once in a while how the production process involves human rights violations and poor working conditions. Fourthly, there is evidence of a possible negative impact on public health of excessive consumption of palm oil, which is in about half of all consumer goods. That is why it needs to be closely monitored. On the other hand, palm oil also requires less cultivation area than most other vegetable oils as well as less use of pesticides, if properly grown, of course. Provided that there is sufficient involvement and control by local authorities, the cultivation of palm oil will, of course, also lead to a decent income for local, mostly small farmers. It is a very versatile product, which of course partly explains its popularity, in addition to the price advantage over other vegetable oils. It is also important to note very briefly that the Belgian food sector has already made a great deal of effort and continues to work with sustainable palm oil today. At European level, steps are also being taken in the right direction. In our view, we have struck the right balance with this motion for a resolution, recognising both the advantages and the disadvantages of palm oil. We give the government a mandate to follow up on the issues at close range, and that is to encourage the production of sustainable palm oil to minimise climate and biodiversity risks, address the potential health risks and continue to advocate ambition in this area at European level. That was always the core of the story. I think it is very important to say a special word of thanks to all colleagues across party boundaries. I can conclude that everyone has risen above themselves in order to produce a text that is ultimately defending and acceptable to everyone. I would like to sincerely thank everyone for their willingness to find each other in committee. We have withdrawn our own amendments to our text in order to allow the majority to propose a number of other, albeit similar, amendments, which we have been delighted to endorse. I remember how the chairman of the committee, Mr Leysen, repeated on a number of occasions that they were very close to the amendments initially tabled. I would also like to thank my fellow Members whose signatures are not covered by the amendments that have been tabled and who have been able and willing to support the story. Of course, I cannot ignore the statement made by our good friends of the Communists. They noted that for the first time, the majority seemed willing to support a text of the opposition. That was, frankly, somewhat striking. In any case, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the opportunity to reach an agreement. Let it be a starting point for even more of that cooperation. We do not always have to agree and there may certainly be a lot of discussion and debate, but I am sure that we want to be able to agree with each other on a little bit when we discuss texts on subjects in which the major social contradictions play much less in any committee. Of course, a swallow doesn't make spring. Before we can effectively speak of a new political culture, more of that is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u29	Colleagues, as announced, our majority took this text of the N-VA into consideration and began its analysis. This work led to the drafting of amendments and their unanimous adoption in the Committee on Energy. It was to be welcomed that the discussions on the text had proceeded smoothly, but also that results had been obtained. It was important for our group that greater attention be paid to preventing and combating the negative health effects of palm oil consumption, as this product is ubiquitous in the shelves of our supermarkets. We must recognize the contribution of the first amendment tabled by our colleagues in the N-VA. I would add that, given the cardiovascular risks of palm oil because of its high concentration of saturated fatty acids with aherogenic potential and the recommendation of the Higher Health Council (SHC) to limit the consumption of palm oil-rich products, but also because of the government's willingness to counter the use of diets harmful to health, we wanted to include in the motion for a resolution a request to limit saturated fatty acids with aherogenic potential to a maximum of 8% of total energy intakes in accordance with the information provided by the CSS. We also wanted the proposal to endorse the need for ambitious measures at European level, in particular to combat the harmful effects of palm oil production on the environment, biodiversity and respect for human rights. We know that a number of European initiatives have been launched in this area. Let us mention the European Commission's proposal last November to ban the import of palm oil produced illegally or attached to deforestation aimed at extending agricultural land. If we are to welcome the ambitions of this project, including a reduction of 31.9 million tonnes of CO2 emissions each year, we must also recognize that this text could go further in protecting indigenous peoples whose habitat is threatened by deforestation. This project is currently being discussed at European level. Through this dialogue, our Government can and must take a position in favour of ambitious measures. Through this motion for a resolution, we strongly encourage it to do so. Finally, we call on the government to make the best use of the levers at its disposal that can be used to stop the negative impacts of the use of palm oil. I will mention here the promotion of the various sustainability standards developed in recent years within the framework of corporate social responsibility or the increased consideration of the risks associated with palm oil production, in the trade agreements through which our country has committed itself. I would like to conclude by welcoming once again the investment of our colleagues involved in the drafting of these amendments, as well as the voluntary spirit with which this work has been carried out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Raskin for drawing our attention to the palm oil dossier. This resolution has been substantially amended, with its friendly approval. That amendment was, in a way, necessary for a number of reasons. Like everyone else in this hemisphere, we are concerned about global deforestation. The production of palm oil is not entirely unusual. We, too, pay due attention to unhealthy dietary patterns and overconsumption of certain saturated fatty acids, including palm oil. One of the amendments sought to take into account the environmental, biodiversity, climate and human rights effects of the use of palm oil and the importance of remedying these negative phenomena, of course to the extent of the possibilities offered by the federal government. I refer to trade agreements under its authority which may be the subject of action in this direction, particularly in the context of future commitments on the production of palm oil. The government agreement also focuses in a passage on imposing the necessary environmental and sustainability standards when it comes to European free trade agreements. In addition, the coalition agreement also pays attention to a commitment to reduce poor nutrition, for example by tackling unhealthy diet patterns. However, we must also be realistic, Mr Raskin. The debate on the necessary sustainable production of palm oil must inevitably also be held at European level. In mid-November, the European Commission proposed legislative work by means of a regulation containing stricter environmental rules for the import of soya, meat, palm oil, wood, cocoa and coffee, to combat deforestation and destruction of land in the world. Companies that market these products on the European market will have to ensure that they are produced in a sustainable way. The European Commission does not even rule out extending this list to other products in the long term. Businesses need to find out exactly which country and which part of the country their goods come from. The more risky the country in terms of deforestation, the stricter the requirements for the company to ensure that exports do not harm the environment. Of course, it is up to the Member States to impose the necessary environmental and sustainability standards themselves. We shall vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the production and use of palm oil is a growing problem for human and planet health. There's no question about that. There is an urgent need for a decisive approach. When the resolution came on the committee's agenda, we therefore considered that the main merit of the proposal was that it included the issue on the parliamentary agenda. We were initially only moderately enthusiastic about the content itself. Despite a correct problem analysis in the explanatory memorandum, the resolution text was still far too non-binding. Almost every request fell short of evaluating the opportunity to examine the problems or measures. Fortunately, that has evolved since then. The authors have realised that many things have already been examined and studied between the text and the debate in Parliament and that measures can therefore simply be taken to combat the problems of palm oil. However, the measures proposed by the N-VA remained very non-binding and ineffective in order to deal with the problem with certainty. The proposers seemed to have excessive confidence in the voluntary initiatives of industries and countries, such as taking as a standard of certification by the round table for sustainable palm oil, although there are extensive reports from civil society on what is wrong with palm oil. The proposal for a resolution aimed at promoting the use of sustainable palm oil in companies and informing consumers so that they can buy the products with the right palm oil. We didn't think so. We weren't alone in that. After all, the resolution before us has inspired Vivaldi to contribute to a proposal from the opposition, which is a first in our committee. Mr Raskin notes that a swallow does not make spring. That's right. However, it is a positive evolution. We look forward to seeing what this will bring in the future. Nor is it forbidden to invite us to the table if the parties, as they say, go for a resolution with the widest possible coalition of parties. We are always willing to cooperate constructively. The joint amendments by the Vivaldi parties and the N-VA have indeed improved the text on a fundamental point. Consumers no longer see the trees through the forest, and because of dubious labels and certificates they do not always know how to choose products based on the right palm oil, but the responsibility for this no longer lies with consumers. Moreover, there is a desire to limit the use of unsustainable palm oil at European level. That is a good thing. However, you also know that only binding regulation really determines the quantity, sustainability and quality of the palm oil that our citizens consume. The resolution could have gone a little further, as some of the inspiration is derived from the resolution of the European Parliament of 4 April 2017, adopted after hearings at the request of the European group to which the PVDA now belongs. At the same time, we must not stare blindly at the European level, we must not wait for European regulation. Belgium can take action today through product standards. By the way, binding standards are always better than any CSR initiative such as the ISO standards or a promotion of the global reporting initiative proposed in this resolution pending European action. Nothing prevents us from imposing binding standards already. Another merit of the amendments tabled by the Vivaldi parties and N-VA is that much more attention is paid to the human rights aspect of palm oil. I am pleased that civil society opinions have been taken into account in this regard. In other areas, the cooperation between Vivaldi and the N-VA had little added value in improving the text. An identical amendment was even tabled twice, once in the name of N-VA and once in the name of both Vivaldi and N-VA. Here and there we also found that the original text or an initial amendment of N-VA watered down. The most striking thing was the way in which a request from the resolution disappeared. This request concerns current practices in the construction and management of palm oil plantations, in particular to highlight their negative effects in foreign policy and development policy. That has disappeared from the resolution. How did that happen? First, all the requests in the resolution were deleted and then a rewritten version of each request was submitted. Apart from that one request, namely to tackle palm oil plantations through foreign and development policy. I think that's punishment anyway. Apparently it wasn't important enough for the majority, including socialists and greens. It would have been much more efficient to replace each individual request and delete it. Now it was puzzles for us, when we did not get the amendments until 6.30 a.m. and the vote in committee was scheduled at 10 a.m. That way of working could have been a little cleaner. Finally, we now have a resolution text which we are not fundamentally opposed to. That is why we will also support the proposal, pending more far-reaching measures. This resolution is taking steps in the right direction to address palm oil as a problem for public health, the environment and human rights. That's a good thing, but the work isn't done. I hope it's a starting point, not an end point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u32	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u33	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u34	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Verhelst refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u35	Madam President, I should like to begin by apologising to Mr Freilich for not being present because of illness, which, of course, is very unfortunate. 5G networks are expected to offer European citizens, society and the economy a wide range of opportunities. At the same time, of course, there are risks involved. We certainly agree with the objectives of this draft law, namely to secure the 5G network. Two years ago, we were already asking about this. However, we cannot approve the draft law. This debate has, of course, already taken place in committee. We have a number of reasons for this, which I should like to give briefly. Firstly, the text before us is in fact a minimum framework law. Much remains to be arranged by the King, so by the government. The new Article 105 of the telecoms Act, which introduces the new system of authorisations, gives a delegation to the King no less than 11 times. The final provisions and the entry into force will be repeated twice. That makes a total of 13 times, and that is absolutely too much for us. Secondly, in your view, Madam Minister, the above delegations are concerned with technical matters. However, we do not agree with that at all. The King can extend the scope of the law. It also lays down the procedural rules for applications, handling and composition of the file, restrictions and deadlines for application. The King may also supplement the criteria for determining the risk profile of the suppliers. The text even allows the King to take into account undefined factors in that assessment. He also needs to identify sensitive areas, for example. Those are absolutely not technical matters for us. The delegations to the King are far too broad and we cannot support them. An opposition party cannot give the government a blank cheque at all. This draft simply gives the government a clear lead for the future. It is the ministers who will decide on these authorisations. With this draft law, you give yourself a clear lead to simply adjust the rules afterwards. Thirdly, the design requires operators to obtain prior authorisation before rolling out 5G networks. Since parts of this law did not enter into force until 2026, including that of the authorisation, operators will have already rolled out their 5G network architecture and therefore need to be regularised. At the time when the operators make their investment, there is therefore no clarity about the regularisation conditions. We cannot have such legal uncertainty. Security measures are restrictions on the freedom of entrepreneurship, the free movement of goods, the freedom to provide services and the free use of goods. These are all matters which, as appropriate, are guaranteed by the Constitution, European law and international law. Restrictions may be accepted only in so far as they are based on reasons of general interest which are based on objective, non-discriminatory and predefined criteria, suitable for achieving the stated objective and necessary to pursue that objective. N-VA acknowledges that this is certainly based on reasons of general interest, namely the security of 5G. We cannot judge today whether the measures are appropriate and necessary to pursue these interests. Whether they are based on objective, non-discriminatory and predefined criteria is another pair of sleeves. As has already been said, the King can supplement the criteria. There is a non exhaustive or non-limitative list of factors which may indicate a risk of interference. There is therefore absolutely no question of pre-established criteria. Fourthly, the Deputy Prime Minister also pointed out that the absence of a decision within three months is equivalent to a refusal. Nor has a maximum time limit been set, which is not the most common legal practice. Often the absence of a decision means an approval. We therefore believe that it shows little respect for the applicant. We believe that he has the right to know whether his application was refused and why. Then, of course, the government must motivate its refusal. However, that is not the case here, the silence means a refusal. For these reasons we shall be voting against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u36	Madam President, thank you for your comments, Mrs Houtmeyers. We have indeed already been able to discuss this with Mr Freilich in committee. I would just like to say that the delegation to the King you find too extensive is about technical matters in a particularly fast evolving domain, such as 5G technology. On the contrary, the Council of State did not make a point of this, but advised that matters should be settled by a royal decision in respect of certain aspects covered by the draft law. We do not therefore think that this is excessive or in any way contrary to certain rules of law, especially the constitutional aspects, which are reserved for the legislative authority. I explained that in committee. In other countries, moreover, we can see that in such very technical legislation, the delegation is much more extensive. As far as sensitive areas are concerned, you should know that this legislation was adopted after consultation and on the advice of the National Security Council and the SCIF. We have worked with all the experts in this security field and continue to work together to implement this legislation. With regard to the fact that the law will come into force later, you referred in particular to the authorisations and that this would create legal uncertainty. You should know that once the licences have been granted after the auction, the 5G network will build on the existing 4G network and that there will be consultation with the operators. They will not therefore face a refusal after three months. On the contrary, a dialogue will be launched with them to see how they can meet the conditions we set. Again, the operators are involved at any time. You know that there is a transitional period for one aspect. That was also a point of discussion. This is certainly in consultation with the operators because the changeover can take a very long time and can have economic consequences. The draft law does indeed comply with its aims, namely to improve the safety of our 5G networks for the next 20 years. That is the investment period we are talking about. In addition, the draft law is fully in line with the European Commission's 5G security toolbox and also takes into account the important role Belgium plays in Europe, with the important international institutions that house our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u37	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u38	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2317) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2317/8) The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill amending various provisions on electronic communications with a view to introducing additional security measures for the provision of 5G mobile services". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending various provisions on electronic communications with a view to introducing additional security measures for the provision of mobile 5G services." The bill has 8 articles. The draft law contains 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u39	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u40	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mrs Samyn, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u41	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2181/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2181/1) The bill has two articles, as well as an annex. The draft law contains two articles, as well as an annex. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u42	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u43	I propose that you devote one discussion to these three bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u44	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mr Defossé, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u45	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2381. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2381/1) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2381. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2381/1) The bill has two articles, as well as an annex. The draft law contains two articles, as well as an annex. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u46	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2382. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2382/1) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2382. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2382/1) The bill has four articles, as well as an annex. The draft law contains 4 articles and an annex. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u47	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2384. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2384/1) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2384. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2384/1) The bill has 5 clauses, as well as an annex. The draft law contains 5 articles as well as an annex. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u48	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u49	I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u50	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The reporter, Mr De Maegd, refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u51	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2411. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2411/1) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2411. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2411/1) The bill has two articles, as well as an annex. The draft law contains two articles, as well as an annex. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u52	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2412. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2412/1) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2412. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2412/1) The bill has two articles, as well as an annex. The draft law contains two articles, as well as an annex. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u53	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u54	I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u55	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Wim Van der Donckt and Benoît Piedboeuf refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u56	Madam President, I would like to speak quickly because this legislation is worrying. Indeed, under the pretext of supporting the recovery after the crisis of the covid-19, the European Directive 2021/338 detricates certain measures that have been put in place following the financial crisis of 2007-2008. For example, recital 4 of Directive 2014/65 on markets in financial instruments stated: "The financial crisis has revealed weaknesses in the functioning and transparency of financial markets. Financial market developments have highlighted the need to strengthen the framework for the regulation of financial instrument markets and to ensure that supervisors are given adequate powers to fulfil their mission." A few years after the financial crisis, which had imposed a certain degree of caution, the strategy of the shock was applied and the health crisis was used to go back to a logic of deregulation. In recitals of Directive 2021/338, for example, there is a question of recovery by capital markets. We know the technique: we are told that administrative simplifications must be carried out, that unnecessary administrative formalities must be removed. Under this pretext, the regulations put in place after the financial crisis are gradually being dismantled. Not only do we not learn the lessons of the health crisis and floods, but we are also losing our memory and forgetting the few lessons learned at the time. They were, of course, insufficient, but even these, we want to "balance" them. So we're going back to an ultraliberal logic. We want to liberalize financial markets to mobilize capital in order to overcome the crisis. But what crisis, and especially the crisis for whom? The Echo recently said: "Belgian companies have never had such high profit margins". We realize that the crisis is obviously not for everyone and not for those investors who would benefit here from deregulation. You will understand that at the PTB we cannot support this logic which, somewhere, prepares the next financial crisis. We will therefore oppose this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u57	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u58	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2399. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2399/3) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2399. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2399/3) The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law implementing certain aspects of Regulation (EU) 2020/1503 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 October 2020 on European providers of crowdfunding services for entrepreneurs, and amending Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and Directive (EU) 2019/1937 (I)". The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law implementing certain aspects of Regulation (EU) 2020/1503 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 October 2020 on European crowdfunding service providers for businesses and amending Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and Directive (EU) 2019/1937 (I) '. The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u59	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2400. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2400/3) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2400. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2400/3) The bill has 46 articles. The draft law has 46 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u60	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Bert Wollants and Mr Samuel Cogolati. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u62	The draft law gave rise to some debate in view of the fact that different themes are addressed. Let me begin with the subject which gave the least cause for discussion, namely the gas storage scheme in Loenhout. The new text reduces the regulatory burden on gas storage, improves the operator's ability to play a role in the European gas storage market, increases competition and allows for a sharper supply so that the gas storage in Loenhout is used optimally and does not lose its attractiveness in a subsequent operation, which may take place from February onwards. The Minister pointed out that the gas storage of Loenhout could also have a price pressure effect. It is important that the gas storage is used. I doubt that in a European context it would put the price at a heavy price, as I said in committee. After all, gas storage is relatively small, even in the context we are talking about today and certainly in the light of gas storage in different European countries. The adjusted price mechanism will by no means fundamentally change gas prices in Europe. It is certainly a good thing that storage is being used. That is why there was little discussion about the measure. However, the Minister noted that the filling rate of Loenhout's gas storage was very rapidly deteriorating, even below the European average. Today it amounts to about 29%, although Fluxys warned earlier that it should be at least 30% in order to absorb possible price shocks and supply shocks, and the percentage is expected to fall in the coming weeks. This means that we will no longer be able to count on the capacity of gas storage to cope with any supply shocks. But that is a matter for another debate, unless the Minister wishes to say a few words about it. Another chapter of the draft law deals with the federal permit for electricity production and storage: from now on, not only does it require a permit for the construction of installations, but also for their operation. We can only observe that the Minister and thus the entire government used a very broad definition which allows for the inclusion of all kinds of matters which do not fall within the competence of the federal government at all. It did not wish to specify this. This raises the question of whether such a legal basis, referring to the explanatory memorandum to include quality and energy efficiency, would make it possible to include certain elements of the environmental authorisation such as energy efficiency. In its reply to the Council of State, the Minister indicated that this was in no way the intention. The fact is that the legal basis was widely formulated. We expressed our concern about this, and the Minister promised in committee that the definition in the Royal Decree should not be too broad and that the division of powers in that country should be respected. But why can't this exercise be made for the legal basis itself? However, I see a possibility of passing over powers, which I do not like to see happening and which would result in the necessary protest. It was also necessary to note that the Minister did not follow a number of recommendations made by the Council of State. For example, the Council of State recommended that the legal basis itself should exempt low-power installations operating on renewable energy. Admittedly, it was not a hard obligation that would invalidate the legal text if the opinion were not followed. The recommendation was already clear in order to do this right the first time in order to avoid problems related to the division of powers at a later stage. The Minister does not wish to resolve the matter until the Royal Decree, i.e. after the King's delegation. We believe, of course, that the creation of too broad a legal basis is not a good piece of legislation, although it is accompanied by a solemn promise not to fill it in widely. We have a certain concern about that. Although we can believe somewhere that the current minister does not intend to fill that out too widely, I am not convinced that a next minister will proceed in exactly the same way. In the past, the federal government has often exceeded its powers in this area. That is why we are concerned about this procedure. On that basis, we had requested a second reading. The services did not discuss the division of powers in their legal advice. It'll be so safe. However, they have highlighted the need for changes to the draft law in different areas. We had already mentioned some of them, for example in terms of the definitions around residential customers. Those adjustments were made in the meantime. As far as the division of powers is concerned, we remain hungry. I realise that the Council of State has not made any comments on this, but to be honest, I am absolutely not convinced that the Constitutional Court would look at it in the same way. I believe that the draft law exposes itself to possible procedures. I do not know whether they are being introduced, but I do see a tendency to extend the scope of a bill which has to be adopted in Parliament more and more, after which it is solemnly promised that when the royal decree is being issued, it will continue to be very good. We're still worried about this. Even if the draft law contains good provisions, we do not think it is a good way to look for boundaries and perhaps even beyond, when it comes to the division of powers of that country. That is why we will not approve the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u63	Good evening, Madam Secretary. The issue of gas supply is very topical. Today, the ominous message came from Germany that the competent minister is starting to worry about the falling gas storage. You have always assured us that there is no problem in Belgium. Today, the gas storage in Loenhout would be about 30% filled, according to Fluxys' spokesman. That's below the average of the last five years. Fortunately it is a mild winter and fortunately we are not too dependent on Russian gas. Our gas comes mainly from the gas fields in the North Sea, from Norway. From Qatar also comes 17 % liquid LNG. This issue must be kept under review, Madam Secretary. It is good that this design enables the storage manager to respond more quickly to fluctuating gas prices. I'm sure we're behind that. Indeed, Fluxys must be able to organise the sale of storage capacity at a reserve price below the regulated price. The Loenhout storage facility is very important for this country and must also be economically viable. The revenues of the site would be uncertain without this initiative from the end of next month, when the current long-term contracts expire. Income is, of course, necessary for the maintenance of the facility, as these costs should not be covered by an increase in transmission rates. We are of course in favour of any contribution to price stabilization, however small. With regard to a number of other articles, in particular the extension of the scope of the authorisation requirement for the construction and operation of new energy storage facilities, we have also expressed our concern about the potential risks of excess power. It is very important that the KB to be issued, which should ultimately constitute the licensing obligation, should be in conformity with competence. We could, like Mr Wollants, be the masters of mistrust and very much doubt that the KB will respect the demarcation of powers, where, importantly, no federal licence would be required for, for example, home batteries. The storage of small-scale renewable energy should in any case be subject to exceptions, an exemption from authorisation. Those who say distrust should also talk about trust. Who are we, Mr Van der Straeten, to dare to distrust Minister Van der Straeten? During the night of Monday 31 January on Tuesday 1 February it has been shown that Tine always gets her battle home. I am therefore very disappointed in two excellences, not in Tine, because she brings in what she announces. We can rely on her. She announces bad decisions, and she realizes those bad decisions, too, Mr. Wollants. Which two excellences can't we count on? Who can we not believe in? The first is Petra De Sutter. At Petra De Sutter I was actually falling in love: on her stylish and classy performance in the gremium here, even though I have no chance at all for various reasons. However, the day after the agreement, she stated in relation to Tinne Van der Straeten and by extension, that her party was not responsible for the non-reduction of gas VAT. Madam President, may I quote from the committee's report of 18 January 2022, in which Mrs Van der Straeten said that she was on the slopes to resolve the current price crisis. I quote: "I am absolutely open to a smart VAT reduction tailored to the energy transition. For a stupid VAT reduction, which reduces wages and benefits and is, in fact, a shift from poor to rich, I fit. On the other hand, for every smart measure, tailored to the energy transition, which is both ecologically and socially controlled, my door is always open." 'Ecologically steering and tailored to the energy transition', that is to favour electricity over a fossil fuel such as gas. Mr. Verduyckt, that's it, isn't it? You're following my reasoning, aren't you? I'm trying to reason very lightly. Who can't we count on? That has actually been put forward this afternoon. That's Vincent Van Peteghem. He said he also wanted a tax reduction on gas. He suggested that it would be incomprehensible to people, should we subsidise gas plants and then not apply a VAT reduction for gas. He explained that in the vtm journal a few weeks ago. There is a 40 centimeter difference in height between Vincent Van Peteghem and Tinne Van der Straeten. Unfortunately, however, she gave him the check. That is a pity for the 60 to 70 % Flemings that heat on gas. So, Mr Wollants, we must be consistent. We must have confidence in Minister Van der Straeten. Just follow my reasoning. If we predict and are therefore actually confident that Mrs van der Straeten will do things that we do not want to do, such as make an energy agreement that deserves anything but a beauty prize, and so she will not be able to reduce the VAT on gas, which she implicitly announced in the committee, then today we must have the same faith in her. We must therefore predict and apply the same thing to matters which it announces and which we do want, namely a royal decision which does not organise the transfer of powers and therefore regulates the issue of the exemption from the obligation of authorisation, as we wish. Consequently, we shall approve the draft law. Thank you for the lesson in logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u64	Madam Minister, we have very few comments to make on the draft law before us. The obligation to permit the construction and operation of certain energy storage systems is not very clear to us. We welcome and welcome the fact that, according to this regulation, the operator will be given greater flexibility in the storage of natural gas. The main gas storage site in our country is located in Loenhout, but I would like to zoom from that Kempens place on the Dutch border to the European story. I will not teach logic like the previous speaker, but I would like to look at the European context, which worries me.Until a few weeks ago, few of us were working on the gas storage in Loenhout. Since gas prices are on fire in the figuratively sense, that is of course different, because everyone is starting to look at that storage capacity nervously. There are several reasons for rising gas prices, which have already been mentioned in this forum. However, the low European gas stocks are not often mentioned, but I believe that they can be a problem. Even before prices started to rise in September, it appeared that stocks were historically much smaller than before. Normally, Europe goes into winter with 90% of its stock, but last winter it was only 77%, which is a serious difference. Some halfway through February, around this time of year, those stocks are normally halfway down, while this year we started with an average of 36%, so a lot lower. It is said that the reason for this is that last year's late cold prick prevented gas supplies from being fully refilled. I note today that countries such as Belgium and France are not doing so badly in this area, especially if I compare it with countries where regulation is much less. In countries such as Austria and Germany, the situation is even more problematic. I cannot ignore the fact that in those countries companies such as Gazprom are also responsible for the feeling of the market. That is what I am making, and it could raise questions. I just heard Mr Wollants say that the stock in Belgium can have little impact in itself. We can store about 5% of total consumption in Loenhout. When I look at Germany, it is about a quarter of the stock for the total use of a country. That's significant, isn't it? I can imagine that these stocks will have an impact. It seems to me to be a good thing to go into winter with a better supply than now. That is what I am making, and it will be important to look more closely at it in Europe. Maybe other countries should think about regulation as we know it, because I do not think it has played any part. The freed-up European energy market has undoubtedly been useful, but there are questions to be asked. We see these questions emerging in the media and we have already asked a lot of questions about them in committee. I am sure we will discuss that later. I fear that, in times of geopolitical tension, a freed-up European market will run into its limits. Not only in Belgium, we are talking about CRM legislation, which happens in many European countries. On the one hand, governments are organizing themselves today to guarantee a certain level of security with state aid, on the other hand, the market must be as free as possible. These two things are difficult to reconcile. The debate on the marginal price has already been discussed. There is a feeling that we must make a full choice for renewable energy, but it is only when renewable energy fully dominates the market that we will see it at the price. This principle raises more and more questions. Finally, we have the fact that there are geopolitical tensions on our continent today, which are said to have an impact on energy prices, Ukraine's story. I note that today we are welcoming LNG tankers from the United States and that they are making sure that our gas price is still slightly reduced, but the United States is making quite a bit of money from that. We don't have to be silly about that. The United States is today our ally in the conflict with Russia, but the consequences of that conflict are, of course, for the countries on the continent, including Belgium. So we need to take a good look at that. I know that these concerns and questions that I have in connection with this draft law belong primarily to the European Parliament, but we will also talk in the Energy and Finance Committees about long-term energy prices and the phenomena I have just mentioned. Almost all parties in this hemisphere have representatives in that European Parliament, and perhaps it is time we looked at that. The ministers concerned also have a role to play in this. I am sure of one thing, if the debate on how that market works today is not there yet, it will certainly be there. After all, the CREG said in committee that high energy prices will not disappear quickly. So we need to map everything, to know how better to arm ourselves against it. Today's design will, of course, have little impact on these general findings, but it is a step forward and will therefore receive our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u65	Mr Verduyckt, I am going to do something against you and join you. I think it is absolutely essential that we have a good debate on how gas supplies should look in the future. You have just referred to the filling rate. I'd like to add another hatch to that. We have looked at the figures and found that the filling rate of the stocks of one very specific gas company was extremely low. It was pointed out for a moment that last year's winter shot, but that does not explain why the one gas company, which happens to have shareholders that coincide with the Russian government, has almost not replenished its gas reserves. Together with you, I am very concerned about this, especially because we know that as of 2025, gas will almost no longer come from the Netherlands and we will have to make it elsewhere. You call on us to think about this and to instruct the Minister to consider how we can further diversify gas supplies, whether through the United States or Qatar. These are the sources that are often discussed today. We really need to find a way of supplementing these gas stocks in a proper way. The other management of a number of regions has just been mentioned. I think you mentioned Germany in relation to gas resources. There are greater gas stocks, but the filling rate is higher there today than we are and also higher than in a number of other European countries to which you have not referred. I fully agree with you that we should be able to have that debate with the Minister in the future. We have tried very often from Europe to make that market as liquid as possible and to allow everyone to play their part fully in that market, but on the other side of that pipeline is someone who is not acting like a market player. We have to protect ourselves from this, because our citizens and businesses pay the price for it. We need to get rid of that. In the context of another discussion, I was scrolling through newspaper articles. In an article from 2009 it was written that we urgently needed to get rid of Russian gas dependence. We were going to do everything we could to be less dependent on the Russian gas. That article could have been written in 2022. Maybe this time we should do it decently. If we can send out the minister from the majority and the opposition with a good mandate, then we will certainly not let that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u66	That's an addition. I will not go into that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u67	Madam President, I would like to respond, on the one hand, to gas storage and, on the other hand, to the other aspects of the powers that have been addressed. I'll start with the gas storage. The debate has rightly been a little broader here. We also held the debate on gas reserve facilities and the strategic installations in Belgium, such as the Loenhout storage unit, in committee. It is certainly not the largest in Europe, but it can also be part of a European strategic storage vision. It should also be remembered that Loenhout also remains strategic in its own country, because it can be deployed at times of peak and scarcity and has a stabilising effect. No one will deny that the situation is serious, but we should not be panicking either. The bill has become urgent because the storage season ends. The rate of filling of Loenhout is currently 29,42 %, by the way similar to the other European countries. On average, the filling rate is currently 34.82 %, but we are at the end of the storage season and 87 % of the volume ends on 31 March. This means that, of course, the filling rate will fall by the end of the storage season, when the long contracts expire. It is enough to look at March last year. Then the filling rate was 21 %. At that time, however, there was no crisis in high and volatile prices, which could put the storage reserves under pressure. This also has to do with the fact that we are at the end of the storage season, hence the present design. That was already in the pipeline before, because it was already submitted to Parliament at the end of 2021 and it must certainly ensure that the way in which we are going to contract, namely the regulated price system, reflects the current context, so that there is absolutely an economic incentive on the market to fill the reserves at the start of the new storage season. I agree with all the speakers that the reserves must be filled. There's no question about that. Mr Wollants, you know that I like to work well with Parliament, the majority and the opposition. But you shouldn't patronize me, either. Do you really think we're not working on that yet? This week there was a meeting of the Penta States to see how the storage strategy should be addressed. Before the holiday, I talked about it with European Commissioner Kadri Simson. It is clear that the various Member States, preferably in a European strategy, are thinking about better storage. We see that those countries that impose obligations on their suppliers today have better reserves. We must look at this both in Belgium and in Europe. Agreements may also be made between Member States to act together. Of course, this issue fits in with a broader debate. How do you deal with this within Europe and how do you ensure sufficient solidarity between Member States? So we are on the right track and we are assisted by the European regulator ACER. This will hopefully lead to an improvement in the market model. With regard to powers, I did not quite understand whether it was a lesson in logic or in fortune-telling. It was certainly not merely a crystal ball, Mr Ravyts. We have explained in the report, and in committee for a long time we have considered how the large storage would be defined or delineated. We have also said that there must be a large storage facility from the threshold of 75 megawatts. This corresponds to the classification into different categories in the relevant network codes. So there is absolutely no intention of getting home batteries under federal regulation. But as you yourself say, we must work on the basis of trust and not of mistrust. For large and small storage, complementarity between the different levels of competence is essential. In committee, I said that the intention was always to consult the various regions in this country in the preparation of the Royal Decree on the licence, which we will also update. In this way, we can ensure that there is complementarity between the different levels of policy on storage policy. The same applies to the policy of flexibility and the organisation of the energy transition. Let us wait and see, and let us assume that we can work together in this country instead of running into each other before the Constitutional Court. There is still absolutely time to do what is necessary. The debate we have had in committee and its impact in the report show that the intentions are in line with what the Council of State has said. In fact, competence must be interpreted and worked in a manner that is consistent, and there is absolutely no intention to go beyond the powers. There is absolutely the intention to work together on this and there is absolutely the intention to ensure a decisive policy, including with regard to storage. The same applies to spatial planning and the environment. There is absolutely no point of reference and no reason whatsoever that any of these powers would be exercised federally. This is also included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u68	Madam Minister, the exchange of powers and greater confidence in Mr Ravyts than in my case is clear. There's got to be a difference. We've had plenty of discussions on that. What you said about the gas storage is a bit bizarre. You think I patronize you too much. If Mr Verduyckt and I draw attention to this, it is from a legitimate concern and it is not new. I've been asking your predecessor about the gas storage in Loenhout. I have asked you several times about the gas storage in Loenhout because of course there is something going on with it, especially given the gas storage on a wider scale. If it was your intention to make sure that I look less closely at what you are doing, I fear I will have to disappoint you. I will, of course, continue to do so. To be honest, it's just the role of the majority and the opposition to see if you're doing what you need to do. There are those who say that we must have every confidence in Mrs van der Straeten and that it will be all right. To be honest, Madam Secretary, I'd rather know exactly what you're doing, and I'd rather debate what would happen best than give you a free pass. Why? What you have just done in terms of numbers is yet another fog curtain. You refer to last year's figures; at that time it was only 21 %. Do you know how much percent it was in early February? Then we were at 36 %. That 21 % was not reached until the end of March. I do not want to know where we will be at the end of March if we are at 29% today. That is why I absolutely want more information about this and that we are firing you, not even to make life difficult for you. If the majority and opposition are calling attention to this, it is mainly to ensure that you can get stronger on the European discussions when it comes to this. We will continue to fire you. Then trust that you will do well is just not enough from my position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u69	Mr Wollants, that confidence is based on the fact that the climate and energy policy of this Vivaldi government is determined by the Ecolo-Green Group. That is my trust, and I give it some truth, and I hope you will. If I give some truth to that, I can also continue to trust that Minister Van der Straeten will also bring the KB to a successful conclusion with that permit exemption. That's the simple argument. It is a pity, however, and it is the second time that I have already asked in committee and again today that I am not being asked to refer to that ruling in committee on VAT reduction. I want to know today whether the Ecolo Green Group is satisfied that no temporary reduction of VAT on gas has been decided. On 18 January, Minister Van der Straeten said that he wanted a reduction in VAT, a smart measure that is both ecological and social. It is certainly not socially controlling, because 60 to 70 % of Flemings heats on gas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u70	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u71	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2364/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2364/7) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u73	Madam Minister, last week, I asked the Minister of Justice about the alarm shouted by the President of the College of Attorneys General, one of the highest magistrates in this country. He said that he could no longer follow certain cases because of the lack of resources available to the Federal Judicial Police. Your colleague from Justice replied to us a number of things and we had to ask you yesterday in the Committee on the Interior about this crucial issue, but the time allotted to the questions did not allow it. It seems to us very important to be able to return to this issue because when one of the country's highest magistrates comes out of his reserve in this way to say that a series of cases related to financial crime, organised crime and great banditry can no longer be followed up for lack of investigators, it is extremely worrying. It is the rule of law that is being undermined because justice cannot work. In his answer, your colleague has expressed a lot of figures and I would like to try to clarify with you because I do not find these figures in the various questions I have already addressed to you for several months. A few weeks ago, the president of the College of Attorneys General drew our attention, in the context of the review of the Sexual Criminal Code, to the fact that in some judicial districts there is no more section on trafficking in human beings at the level of the judicial police, which is worrying. In Het Laatste Nieuws on February 4, you indicated in response to the President of the College of Attorneys General that you would like to invest $23.3 million in the Federal Judicial Police. The College of Attorneys General says it needs at least 35. I would really like to clarify a point with you. Where are you going to get those 23 million? We know that there is an additional 70 million dollars that the government has released for the federal police as a whole. What part of the $70 million are you actually going to spend on the judicial police? Moreover, if you have, and have often been said here, actually increased the federal police budget by 70 million by 2022, you have at the same time made linear savings on the same federal police of the order of 22 million by 2022. I do not count in that the additional EUR 4 million of NAPAP that are not fully offset. In the course of the budget discussions, you told me that these 4 million, they had to be taken on staff currently in office. This, of course, is the least that can be devoted to new means. I really want you to explain to us about the 70 million, what part of the budget you're going to dedicate to the Federal Judicial Police. It's really very important. I now turn to the number of full-time equivalents (FTEs) claimed by the same policy. The article talks about about 500 people who are complementary to the Federal Judicial Police. Last week, your colleague told us that he wanted to hire 195 additional investigators. What does this figure of 500 have to do with? Knowing that the Federal Judicial Police are demanding at least 500, also knowing that there are between 250 and 300 natural departures, they want complementary means of between 200 and 250 and even 300 complementary FTEs. Of these 500, I would like you to tell us what you will be able to provide as additional personnel on the envelope of the 1,600 new police officers who come into operation each year according to the plan you have drawn up? I think that's really the answer they're waiting for. They want to know what their share of the 70 million budget will be. They also want to know how many full-time equivalents (FTEs) they will have out of the 1,600 you plan to hire. That's what you told us. You have made it possible to hire this number for 2021 and the target is obviously renewable by 2022. I think this is a really important issue. We're now answering numbers, but they don't compare the same things. Your colleague last week was talking about 195 FTEs. Where is he going to get them? I still haven't found it. Will he get them from the 70 million envelope? The police are asking for additional resources. Are the 195 complementary to the 250 who will naturally retire? At that time, there's already a big hole going down. It's really up to you to explain all these things to us. In addition, the demand of the judicial police has always been to have a somewhat different status to allow for very specific profiles that are real experts, whether in computer science for cybercrime, or extremely sharp profiles in taxation, in particular, for financial crime. In relation to this request to adjust its status, how do you position yourself? Do you find that this request is legitimate? More comprehensively, there is also the question of a specific budget for the judicial police, according to article 114 of the Integrated Police Act, with a clear aim of clarity and transparency. Obviously, when a budget is isolated, it is much easier for the judicial police to know the means at their disposal and to be able to manage that envelope. I would like to know whether this is the case today, whether there is a precise statement and a specific budget. It's also one of their demands. I don't think it's powder in my eyes, that it's excessive as requested. We have all, as Democrats, been particularly challenged by this exit from the College of Prosecutors General, which had already been preceded by several exits of magistrates but also, of course, of police officers. At the end of the budget, the Commissioner General made a fairly similar request, pointing out that the federal police were generally on the brink of bankruptcy. Let's not talk about the judicial police... Nor are we talking about the dismantling of a number of services which are no longer at central level but which are located in the boroughs and which are no longer contact points, for example for international investigations. I am thinking in particular of what one of your predecessors has done, in dismantling the OECDFO, in dismantling and placing in the boroughs of everything that concerns the Federal Computer Crime Unit... Not all of these dismantlings are likely to build confidence in a strong federal police force where, at some point, people find themselves in judicial districts. There is obviously a need for reinforcements at this level, but there is no longer a central point of contact for investigations that often go far beyond our territory. I think that this issue is extremely fundamental, which is why we have filed an inquiry, because we believe that when justice does not work, it is the rule of law that is threatened. We had the opportunity earlier to discuss another subject. And if we do not have an extremely strong counterpower that is that of justice, alongside measures that must be taken and that have a tendency to always play efficiency instead of playing legality and regularity, we believe that justice must be an endowed counterpower. This is not about justice, although it is clear that there is much to say, but it is about investigators who are assigned to judicial missions. It is extremely important for us to have these precise answers on how you intend to allocate these different budgets, on how you intend to respond to this request which, I would remind you, had already been made by Justice Claise, but which had also been formulated by the police itself. I look forward to your answers about the €23 million and the 1,600 aspirants: what will be the assignment to the police? Of the additional 75 million, how many will be allocated to the judicial police? With regard to the 195 complementary investigators and the 500 others, could you clarify the figures so that we can all talk about the same thing? In this way, you could stop throwing powder into your eyes by talking about 195 complementary investigators, while 250 retire. Such an announcement would not be worthy of the answer that must be given to the justice system and its investigators working for our rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u74	Madam President, Minister, I would like to start by quoting: "We see in certain dossiers accounts taking place where people are beheaded, cut up, torture chambers. That happens to us, not elsewhere. What we also see is files involving corruption within the judicial system and the police. Infiltrations. Once there is a lot of money involved, everything becomes very violent." This quote comes from none other than the highest magistrate in this country, the chairman of the colleague of the Attorney General, Mr de la Serna. He added clearly that certain districts in the fight against serious and organised crime were no longer able to mobilise the necessary resources and carry out their investigations. Madam Secretary, the problem is not new. You will recall that the College of Attorney General sent a letter to the government last year under the new security plan. Even then, it was said that there was no formal commitment to the budgets and the resources needed to deal with all the identified priorities. That is why, on 23 December last year, I questioned you here in this Chamber about the lack of resources for the Federal Judicial Police. You replied that EUR 20 million would go to the FGP through the European Relance Plan and that the FGP would find an ally in you for a so-called plan 3.0 to strengthen the FGP with more people and resources. What do we determine today, well 49 days later? There are at least 500 agents too short of the FGP. On the ground, choices have to be made when it comes to serious and organised crime. Some are being investigated, some aren't. Some anti-banditism studies should even be abandoned. The Mafia is threatening to take over the country. For example, the prosecutor refers to Sky-ECC, where 2,400 suspects were identified, of which only 62% were known to the services. He concludes that the file is actually just the tip of the iceberg. This means that, because of a lack of staff, they miss the opportunity to fight against the Mafia. According to District Attorney de la Serna, there is a structural deficit of at least 500 agents that can be conducted on financial and anti-banditism investigations. The College of Attorney General states that at least EUR 35 million is needed to allow the agents to do their job. Madam Secretary, how will you resolve the shortage of personnel? Will you make extra efforts to recruit the extra agents? Have you allocated the necessary additional budgets for this purpose? Of course and finally, is there any consultation between you and the Prime Minister as well as between you and the Minister of Justice to establish a plan of action in the short term? What are the concrete results of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u75	Madam Secretary, I would very much like to join colleagues Matz and Depoorter. A lot of figures have already been given, and you also mentioned a lot of figures in the last two months. I will break down an open door when I say that the problem of lack of resources and manpower for the federal judicial police is not new. At the end of November, well two months ago, we read in the press that the federal judicial police can no longer carry out their tasks in the fight against organised crime. The acute lack of resources and staff was identified as the main cause. At the meeting of 17 November 2021, the Procurators of the King stated that the FGP will not be able to implement the priorities of the new National Security Plan 2022-2025 if the necessary resources are not provided. I've taken note of the National Security Strategy drawn up by the Prime Minister. The text is already online somewhere and I hope that it will be officially presented in Parliament in the coming weeks. In fact, this raises the same problem, because a National Safety Plan cannot be started from a white sheet. Tabula rasa cannot, a realistic capacity must be assumed. According to the experts, at least EUR 35 million and 1,609 staff are needed to maintain the functioning of solito posto. At the end of November, we discussed your policy paper. About the federal judicial police you stated that the staff shortages are being monitored permanently and that the budgets are being allocated accordingly. You say everything and nothing, because that is relatively vague. In mid-December 2021 you gave some more concrete information about the deficits. Apparently, at the end of last month there was a deficit of 461 full-time equivalents or 9.5%. With regard to the budget deficit, you said that an effort was being made for refinancing, including through European relay policy. This year, the government grants an additional 50 million to the entire federal police and the Minister of Justice has an annual auction of 12 million euros for the NTSU. We have to make a small comment. You listed a lot of numbers during the sitting, but they were not very transparent. For example, the additional EUR 50 million for the federal police will also have to cover other costs and projects. That, of course, is not a licence for the FGP. The annual appropriations of the Minister of Justice have been specifically allocated to the functioning of the NTSU and not to the whole of the FGP. By the way, the costs that the FGP had to cover yesterday and today remain today. We must look at additional appropriations, because it is clear that we cannot save the cabbage and the goat. You also said in mid-December that the Federal Police Executive Committee was working out a plan for the distribution of budgets in view of the needs of the various components of the federal police, not least the FGP. At the end of December, you confirmed your consultation with the Police Summit in plenary session, including the Director General of the FGP, on additional budgets of 2022 for the FGP. I quote: 'They find in you an ally for their so-called plan 3.0 to strengthen the FGP with more cars, people and resources'. If you talk the talk, you walk the walk . A true ally not only speaks, but also responds with deeds. Because of this long-standing problem, I would like to ask you for clarity. I'd like to get an answer to a few questions. The staff shortages are poignant. The FGP should be strengthened rapidly by 1,609 additional people. What exactly are the budgets against this? What budgets are opposed to the much-needed new equipment? What efforts are you making to attract these extra people? By getting negative in the news, that job is not so attractive. You said earlier that EUR 20 million will be allocated to the FGP from the European relaunch plan. What was the motivation with which you justified to Europe that these appropriations for the FGP could be covered by that relay policy? What objective of the relance plan was this within? According to some sources, at the meeting of the National Security Council of 1 December 2021, the issue of manpower and resources was explained extensively by the FGP. The Prime Minister would have promised that further consultations would be held between the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and yourself. Can you confirm this? When did this meeting take place? What conclusions and, above all, what points of action have emerged from these consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u76	Madam President, Minister, a few months ago, Attorney General Delmulle announced that some financial crime cases should be dropped because of a lack of resources for the justice system and the specialized sections of the Federal Judicial Police. Most recently, the president of the College of Attorneys General, Mr. de la Serna, was sounding the alarm. According to him, there is a shortage of more than 500 investigators in the judicial police, which means that some cases are no longer being processed. The words of M. de la Serna are strong. I quote: "The mafia takes possession of the land. We no longer have the capacity to properly handle economic and financial matters. We can no longer deal properly with serious and organized crime, given the lack of capacity of the Federal Judicial Police. It's something we've never known before. We have to make choices, and mafia pass through the meshes of the net." Mr de la Serna cited the example of the Sky case, which allowed the seizure of 91 tons of cocaine at the port of Antwerp, for a market value of more than 4.5 billion euros. More than 2,400 suspects were identified, of whom only 62 per cent were already known to the services. Of the 2,300 judicial police officers, 700 are working full-time on the only case, which represents only the tip of the iceberg. At the end of last year, I asked your colleague, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, who had assured me that the fight against financial crime and the fight against organised crime were the government's priorities, that the problem was finding candidates but that recruitment procedures would be launched. "We are able to stand up to organized crime," he said. At the same time, in Charleroi, the police had to close its section to combat human trafficking, for lack of resources. Mr. de la Serna's response to Mr. Van Quickenborne said there is no appeal. He says: "Currently, we are not able to stand up to organized crime. When we talk to the Minister of Justice, he says he's going to consult with his colleagues. We're turning the ball back. There is a need for a guaranteed budget for the Federal Judicial Police as provided by law." A lack of resources and personnel for the Federal Judicial Police means that financial crime files cannot be processed and fraudsters cannot be prosecuted. Mafia networks, organized crime cannot be investigated, which can lead to more and more violence in society. The consequences are palpable for people in the field. When we asked the Minister of Justice, he told us that 70 million euros were planned, but it was not clear. Is this a one shot measure or is it 70 million euros a year? What is the share of the Federal Judicial Police? What is the guaranteed share to fill the necessary framework, including the 500 missing investigators? Nothing is clear. As for the 190 new recruits, are they planned to replace the 250 retirees, in which case would it make fewer staff, or do they come in surplus? Is it enough, given the 500 missing agents, to make it work optimally? It's not clear. We need to clarify the share of the EUR 70 million mentioned by Mr. Van Quickenborne, which is reserved for the judicial police. Indeed, Mr de la Serna and others are asking for a budget of EUR 35 million annually. Are you in this logic? Or is it just a one shot measure? Another problem is attractiveness. When the investigation bonuses were paid, police officers left the judicial police to join the local police. What do you intend to do to restore the attractiveness of this (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u77	Mr Boukili, I remind you that we must respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with my general policy note, the situation of the Federal Judicial Police is subject to special monitoring by my services, in consultation with my colleague, the Minister of Justice. Therefore, I am obviously not insensitive to the words of the Attorney General of La Serna in particular and of the judiciary in general. We listened to them. Follow-up is therefore necessary. As you have already mentioned, at a National Security Council in December, the government has already had an opportunity to conduct a first consultation with the federal police and the judiciary. We also continued discussions with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. As has just been pointed out, these talks followed at the National Security Council meeting. The strategic information I receive in connection with the findings of several recent important judicial investigations shows that our country must be resilient. For me, the integral and integrated approach to organised crime is central. A strong judicial police but also a strong administrative police, the two components of the integrated police force, must be developed in a balanced manner. The budget of the Federal Judicial Police is included in a specific organizational division in Section 17, DO 42. In addition to this specifically identified budget, the CEO also benefits, like the other components of the federal police, from appropriations placed on the so-called corporate DO, which aims to cover running costs and joint investments. This includes, for example, computers, investments in digital tools, cars, etc. It is clear that the judicial police can benefit from the budgets provided for in this corporate line, which is valid for the entire integrated police force. The initial budgetary standard adopted by this Parliament under Budget Act 2022 has been set at a total amount of € 305.227 million for the Federal Judicial Police. This concerns staff, operating and investment appropriations. With regard to the additional appropriations you mentioned, Mrs Matz (50 million in 2021, 70 million in 2022, 90 million in 2023 and 100 million in 2024), it should be pointed out that they are intended to be charged not only to the federal police budget but also to an important part of the organic division devoted to the operation of the integrated police. The above-mentioned additional budgetary resources for the police are therefore not one shot measures, Mr. Boukili, but recurrent and even an annual increase. Finally, Ms Matz, it is the IPF Steering Committee that decides on the allocation and allocation of resources. It is not the Minister of the Interior who makes the decisions. It is the Police Steering Committee that decides on the allocation of resources. So the government is indeed investing in the security services, as stipulated in the government agreement and as has been discussed with you several times during our Committee on Home Affairs, Mr Depoordere. As I have just said, the additional resources mentioned for the integrated police are not one-off measures, but recurring and, according to the schedule I mentioned earlier, annual budgets. The additional funds received by the Federal Police in 2021 enabled the Federal Judicial Police to acquire, among other things, new vehicles: about 300 are awaiting delivery. These appropriations have also made it possible to finance a series of specific needs. Complementary resources have already been used for investments for the judicial police. With regard to the additional appropriations for 2022, the distribution between the components of the federal police and the projects and needs for which they will be used is being discussed, as I said, within the police steering committee and with the relevant ministers. These investments will cover part of the structural investment deficit of the Federal Police, including the needs of the Federal Judicial Police. These efforts, and I agree with you, will certainly have to continue in the coming years. A deficit has been built up in recent years, and it goes without saying that we need to make it right, but this cannot be done at once. It is necessary to discuss this with the Minister of Justice, but certainly also with the Prime Minister. That is also what some of you have suggested. One of the consequences of this regular consultation is that the needs of, inter alia, the federal judicial police for the implementation of the Cybersecurity Strategy 2.0 are presented in the framework of budgetary control. A little more about the budgetary picture of the judicial police, I would like to refer to the appropriations granted in the context of European relance policy. In particular, EUR 9.33 million was allocated to the project cybersecurity 5G NTSU and EUR 10.03 million for the digitisation of the operational processes of the FGP. That is in addition to the resources that will also be used for iPolice, which, of course, will also benefit the federal judicial police. The choice to fully allocate that relay budget to the federal judicial police is a clear choice to invest sufficient of the resources available in the judicial police. In addition, the Minister of Justice makes available to the NTSU a structural annual appropriation of EUR 12 million to enable them to take the necessary actions and actions within the special units of the FGP, as well as an additional loan of EUR 22 million. The projects of the FGP are therefore certainly involved in the objectives of the Relance Plan, in particular the digitisation of the functioning of the public services, which Mr Dermine will certainly be able to confirm. In this way, we meet the conditions and objectives of the government, in particular the challenges facing the police in terms of digitisation and innovation. In this context, I would also like to point out that the NTSU is a highly specialised support service at central level, which is an integral part of the FGP and therefore does indeed carry out tasks for the integrated police, most of which are for the FGP. These additional resources, EUR 12 million and EUR 22 million, are also at the service of the FGP, which in turn serves the integrated police. The capacity of people at the disposal of the judicial and federal police was also cited here. On 31 January 2022, the number of staff employed by the PHP amounted to 4.356. Since my arrival, the capacity of the FGP has increased by around 200 employees. Since 2014, there has been a systematic reduction in staff capacity. This government has explicitly chosen to use this turnaround, and that has happened over the last year and a half. Of course, discussions on this need to continue. This does not only happen between the executives of the federal police, but also at the level of the ministers. I agree that the work is not finished. We must continue to strengthen the FGP, especially for calculated capacity needs. You should also make that determination with the other components of the federal police. We will do everything we can to reduce these deficits in the coming years. For your information, I would like to inform you that the deficit in the FGP has been substantially reduced over the past year, even more so than in some other police forces. This also points to our support for the FGP. We have repeatedly expressed the ambition to recruit and train 1,600 inspectors every year. This, too, is an important step in reducing the deficit and the capacity deficit. Last year we attracted even more recruits: 1.897. If we can maintain that rhythm in 2022, we can assign those additional recruits to the different parts of the police. For the 1,600 inspectors recruited in 2022, these are distributed as agreed among the integrated police entities. This includes 400 members for the federal police and 1,200 for the local police. Of the 400 inspectors for the Federal Police, 150 are planned for the Federal Judicial Police. The salaries of the above-mentioned 400 inspectors are provided for in the personnel credits of the Federal Police. So, of course, the necessary appropriations have been made available to pay the inspectors. In addition, we want to focus on the recruitment of special profiles with expertise. It is not always about runways, but also about people who have expertise in EcoFin matter. There too, recruitments are ongoing, both on ICT profiles to do digital detectives, but also on EcoFin profiles. We recently published 60 vacancies specifically for the recruitment of those special profiles. With regard to the recruitment of specialist profiles, Mrs Matz, I can confirm that we are working on a method of recruitment for the judicial police, especially with a view to shortening the procedure. If we want to engage profiles with CTI or ECOFIN, we need an appropriate procedure, so that candidates do not wait too long before they can start. Measures to facilitate and speed up the entry into service of specialised staff are being taken or are being considered, in particular in the context of trade union discussions on the qualitative aspect of the sectoral agreement. We talked about it yesterday at the Committee on the Interior. We are therefore continuing negotiations with the trade unions. In this area, we are committed to developing this specific procedure. It is clear that replacing employees who leave the PJF remains a challenge. This also applies to other components of the federal police force. Monitoring has been put in place to monitor closely the capacity of the federal police, including the judicial police, to determine what profiles they need and where recruitment capacity needs to be strengthened. As we have already discussed, the preservation of those people in the federal police is of course important. That is why we must also work to strengthen the attractiveness of a career in the federal police and certainly in the federal judicial police. It is also for this reason that the additional needs have been taken into account in the revision of the financial statute. In the past, although my predecessors have made the decision to extinguish the compensation for the actual research posts. This compensation, which existed specifically for all the police detective services of the integrated police, will, like 17 other allowances and allowances, be extinguished. This is a decision of the past, which has also been discussed with the trade unions. So that's a fact. The overall reform of the premium system that was established in the past after long negotiations with the police unions concerns the whole of the integrated police and not just the federal judicial police. A general abolition of all premium schemes has been chosen. So that choice was also made for the federal judicial police at the time. Moreover, most of the allowances and allowances related to those abolished premiums were not applicable to the PHP at the time. Re-introducing the fee only for the FGP could be considered to be contrary to the previous overall revision of the financial statute of all police forces. I would like to add that we must continue to look for ways of increasing attractiveness. If we have to look at points and come back to decisions taken in the past, then we must be open to them. Today, however, it is too early to comment on this. In any case, the sectoral agreement concluded two weeks ago should help to achieve a substantial improvement in the status of the more than 48,000 police officers for the first time since 2001, with an average increase of 5% on the basis of the individual situation, in addition to improving career opportunities and working conditions. In this way, the interim agreement can contribute to strengthening the federal judicial police, like all other services within the integrated police. As far as the fight against financial crime is concerned, I can inform you that the judicial police are developing a comprehensive plan to strengthen its approach. This plan will include, among other things, the recruitment of the specialist investigator, who is in the process of being recruited. We are in discussion with the Judicial Police Directorate. We know the Strategic Plan 3.0 and we take the actions that are based on it. The plan also includes training routes, digital tools in support of investigations, research management, internal and external partnerships with integrated police, international collaboration - which is extremely important -, recovery of criminal assets and, finally, criminal enforcement investigations. Finally, the Federal Judicial Police will also contribute, as part of the fight against financial crime, to the action plan of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud. I believe that with this explanation and the further details I gave in response to the questions, I have shown that we are clearly opting for a strengthening of the federal judicial police. It is, of course, a good observation that the Sky ECC file has made a huge amount of data available to the federal judicial police and that the need to take action is particularly great, but also that this file has a particular impact on the functioning and capacity of the federal judicial police. However, it is good that this work is happening, and it is our job to support them. With today's efforts, we're not here yet. I didn't want to tell you that either. However, it is my conviction and commitment that we must continue these efforts, including in the years to come. I'll definitely fight for that. I am counting on the Minister of Justice and other members of the government, together with all of you, to continue this fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u79	Minister, thank you for taking the time to try to detail the numbers we asked for. I'm not telling you that I'm extremely worried and perplexed. You have just confirmed the figure of 150 persons at the level of the judicial police. With this, you are well aware that natural departures are not even covered. You said that this remained a challenge at the level of the judicial police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u80	They're aspiring detectives. They're people who start at the police. I'm not talking about lateral recruitment. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u81	That should be explained. It's really the heart of the problem. There are 150 people, but what about the 250 natural departures? Are they covered elsewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u82	The 150 people are part of the annual recruitment of the 1,600 aspirants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u83	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u84	In addition to those who start their police careers, there are also lateral recruitments. The 150 aspirants are not generally intended to cover all departures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u85	What is the number of lateral recruitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u86	For example, in 2021, we opened 400 posts for the judicial police. These are specialized profiles, such as Ecofin and ICT. As I said, the 150 people are among the 1,600 aspirants detectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u87	All right. Natural departures would therefore be covered by what you call mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u88	Yes, mobility, or lateral recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u89	Minister, I can hear you, but we do not always have the same information. As I understand it, when the College of Attorneys General and the Judicial Police solicit 500 people, there are 250 natural departures and 250 new positions. That, in my view, must still be clarified. You have partly responded by saying that the €70 million would be allocated in part to the integrated police and in part to the federal police and that the steering committee will decide on the allocation. Why then do you announce in the Flemish press that, for the judicial police, you will grant 23 million resources, compared to the 35 million euros requested by the prosecutor? The reader understands that you will grant 23 million euros. But here you are telling us that you do not know how to specify, since it is the police steering committee that must distribute the envelope, not 70 million euros because part of it goes to the zonal police but an envelope whose amount is not clearly defined. It has often been said that the way to deal with interdepartmental provisions, including the €70 million for the police, is not very clear because the amounts are not allocated directly to budget items. This therefore does not make it possible to know what priorities can really be given. That must be clarified. You also do not say – you keep that part quiet every time – that you are making linear savings of the order of 25 million euros on the police, i.e. 104 million euros over three years. I would remind you, however, that at the time of adoption of the budget we had tabled amendments to remove these linear savings. We can't give with one hand what we're going to pick up immediately from the other. I know that the amounts do not have the same magnitude, but, of course, we cannot talk about 70 million additional euros, whereas you make linear savings of the order of 25 million euros if we take NAPAP into account. The answer is not clear. I find that the answer you are bringing is not the answer that is expected and is not up to the answer. I know you're taking different steps, but the needs are there now. The request is here now. We do not have the impression that you have measured the importance of this call for help, which has been launched by various magistrates and by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u90	Madam Minister, I sincerely fear that your answer will not be sufficient in the light of the demands made by the College of Attorneys General. I hear the same figures as in the past, while Attorney General de la Serna is asking for much more if we want to do serious work on the fight against organised crime. In my view, it is still too much of a non-binding statement to respond to the appeal of the Attorney General. If a top magistrate blames the politically too little interest in mafia practices, then it is not five to twelve but five to twelve. I have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation to urge the government to give a clear and concrete response to the appeal of the College of Attorneys General. I ask the government to hear the President of the College of Attorneys General on the issue and to report to Parliament in the relevant committees on that discussion. I can tell you that next week I will also ask the Committee on the Interior to hear the President of the College of Attorneys General on our committee. I ask you and the government to provide, with immediate effect, ad hoc additional staffing capacity for the tasks of the federal judicial police by means of an adapted priority and a possible redeployment of certain tasks by the federal judicial police. I ask the government to propose a short-term plan of action that will provide for a permanent and permanent increase in capacity in the federal judicial police which will ultimately meet the capacity needs formulated by the College of Attorneys General. I ask you and the government to inform the Chamber periodically about the progress of the action plan in the relevant committees. Finally, I urge you and the government to organise the necessary consultations with all the actors involved in the provision of human resources and the focus on prosecution policy in the area of justice, so that this also meets the emergency call of the College of Attorneys General. I am sure that no one wants us to give up the fight against organised crime, but we are also investing and, above all, we are taking the motion very seriously, not to dismiss the appeal of the College of Attorney General. I am sure that the full Chamber of Representatives will support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u91	First of all, you brought your answer as a kind of good news show, rather enthusiastic, with occasional classic sneer towards the predecessors, including the former Minister of the Interior, your party mate. I haven't been here very long, but I don't remember that there was ever such a tension between a minister and some of her crucial services. I hope you can turn the tide. Secondly, I see another trend break with the past. You said just now that the distribution of resources should be for the police themselves, whereas that should be de facto a political decision. The Minister of Justice and yourself as Minister of the Interior should be responsible for the distribution of resources. That responsibility should not be shifted to the police forces themselves. Thirdly, as our colleague, chairman of the Committee on the Interior, has also mentioned, we would also like to call for our own hearings, including with the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the General Executive Board of the judicial police, so that we can also hear their story in committee. That's why we're filing a motion. First of all, your conversation with colleague Matz became higher mathematics at some point. Can you communicate the numbers clearly? What are the deficits in resources and manpower in the FGP at the very moment? Secondly, I would ask you to recognise and endorse the unmistakable and indispensable role played by the federal judicial police in the fight against organised crime. Thirdly, what are the reasons for the escalation of the problem? We find that the actors concerned are rather resorting to the public media and at least give the impression that they are not being heard sufficiently. Fourthly, we call for clear action plans to be drawn up for the policy on the FGP. What path does the FGP intend to take? What are the objectives to be pursued by the FGP? How will she relate to the rest of the federal police? What budgets will be set against this? If it is the good news show, how do you explain that the Attorney General and the Prosecutors of the King state at a very recent meeting that the FGP will not be able to implement the priorities of the new National Security Plan 2022-2025 if additional resources are not provided? That is why we are tabling a motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u92	Minister, you are right to say that the police situation deteriorated during the previous legislature. But to hear you, I wonder why the president of the College of Attorneys General made his way out. You know, there's no reason to make that kind of statement. You can't understand why the Charleroi police have closed their anti-trafficking unit. We hear your version and then we see what's going on in the field and there's a lag. We need to know where this shift came from. We have asked for clarity, but the figures we have received have not clarified anything. The President of the College of Attorneys General requests 35 million a year. In these 70 million, how many are dedicated to the judicial police? No one can answer that question. The question was asked to the Minister of Justice and then to you and no one can answer. It's good to say 70 million for the police, but the shortage is so huge that we can put those 70 million everywhere. How much of that $70 million is going to go to the judicial police? We still don't know. With regard to recruitment, there were 500 vacancies. If we put retirement aside, we need 500 people in addition to the existing framework. You're telling us that 150 people will be recruited. You said there were 400 vacations for the criminal police. How many people have been recruited for the judicial police? We did not receive these figures. How many police officers have been recruited to reach the 500 missing in the judicial police as a whole? We don't know that. You give me figures that seem satisfactory, but the ground tells us the opposite and declares that you do not have those means. The examination of these figures does not provide us with any information relevant to what the actors on the ground expect. The Minister of Justice told us about recruiting staff – and that's why I asked you about the 400 vacations – that it was difficult to hire police officers, because the job was not attractive. This is not the only profession, since there is the same problem among magistrates and prison officers. The working and wage conditions of these functions have deteriorated so much that no one wants to apply for them. I've already asked you what you're planning to do to make the criminal police profession attractive again. You didn't answer me. However, the police officers left their jobs because of the harsh working conditions and the decline in their remuneration since the former legislature. We spent an hour discussing the judicial police. The strong statement of the President of the College of Attorneys General should normally have prompted an electroshock within the government to put the package in the way of solving the problem. After an hour, however, we return to the starting point. No clarity has been given to the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u93	We're gonna have to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u94	Madam Chair, I raise a point of order to request that the Federal Judicial Police be logically funded to meet its needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u95	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Vanessa Matz and Messrs. Ortwin Depootere, Koen Metsu et Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to article 114 of the Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service, structured at two levels, which provides that "(...) the basic allowances relating to the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police shall be grouped into a separate organizational division"; - having regard to the agreement of the Government that "the judicial order and the judicial police shall be strengthened with a view to the detection and prosecution of financial offences"; - having regard to the request from the Federal Judicial Police, to the Government, to obtain an additional amount of EUR 35 million in the context of the budgetary discussions for the initial financial year 2022; - having regard to the budget injection of EUR 70 million into the interdepartmental provision, planned this year by the government, for the federal police; - having regard to the decision of the Council of Ministers of 20 October 2021 to make linear savings during the current legislature for a total amount of 104 million euros - i.e. 22,384 million euros in 2022, 34,863 million euros in 2023 and 47,342 million euros in 2024; - considering the repeated warnings of the judiciary that it is impossible to deal with all cases because of lack of means, while mafia circles continue to grow and try by every means to settle in our country; - Considering the alarm shouted by the College of Attorneys General which denounces the lack of both budgetary and personnel resources of the Federal Judicial Police to combat organized crime effectively and which has warned the political world of their inability to handle all cases of organised crime; - Considering the request of the College of Attorneys General to recruit 500 investigators this year to replace natural departures and to strengthen the PJF; - Considering the absolute need to strengthen the judicial police in order to implement the National Security Plan 2022-2025, failing which it will become inapplicable; - Whereas more than 700 investigators are currently working on the "SKY ECC" case, which requires a series of investigative duties to incriminate criminals; - Considering the announcement in the press of the Minister of the Interior to invest EUR 23.3 million this year in the PJF; - Considering the commitment of the Minister of Justice to engage 195 investigators this year; asks the government to provide the necessary means for the Federal Judicial Police to combat criminal circles, in particular: - to eliminate the linear savings projected during this Parliament which affect all federal police services; - to make the necessary budgetary changes in order to allocate EUR 35 million of additional appropriations to the organic division D.O. 42, present in section 17 of the Federal Police, and dedicated specifically to the Federal Judicial Police, in accordance with section 114 of the Integrated Police Act; - to provide for the placement and recruitment of 500 police officers for all relevant judicial police services this year. This applies to the Federal Police Directorate-General (DGJ), the four central directorates: the Specialized Units Directorate (DSU), the Operations Directorate (DOJ), the Technical and Scientific Police Directorate (DJT) and the Serious and Organized Crime Directorate (DJSOC), as well as to the 14 deconcentrated directorates. The commitment of the 500 police officers to the Judicial Police requires that part of the 1,600 police officers recruited this year be reserved for the Federal Police as a whole at the PJF and that sufficient jobs be opened during the mobility cycles; - to adapt the status of the personnel currently in force within the integrated police in such a way that the PJF can recruit real experts in various fields in order to combat more effectively an increasingly broken crime with new technologies, particularly sophisticated financial arrangements, etc." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz and Mr Ortwin Depoortere, Mr Koen Metsu and Mr Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to Article 114 of the Law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of an integrated police service, structured at two levels, which provides that basic assignments relating to the general management of the judicial police are to be brought together in a separate organizational unit; - having regard to the coalition agreement which states that "for the detection and prosecution of financial offences, the judicial order and the police shall be strengthened; - having regard to the Federal Judicial Police's request to the Government to receive an additional envelope of EUR 35 million in the framework of the budget negotiations for the original financial year 2022; - having regard to the budgetary injection of EUR 70 million into the interdepartmental commission set by the government for that year for the federal police; -Having regard to the decision of the Council of Ministers of 20 October 2021 to make linear savings during the current legislative period for a total amount of EUR 104 million or EUR 22,384 million in 2022, EUR 34,863 million in 2023 and EUR 47,342 million in 2024; - whereas the judicial world has repeatedly warned that, in the absence of resources, it is impossible to deal with all the dossiers, while the mafia environments are expanding and trying to get a foothold in our country in every possible way; - having regard to the fact that the College of Attorneys-General has sounded an emergency call to charge, on the one hand, that the federal judicial police have a shortage of budgetary and human resources to combat organised crime effectively and, on the other hand, to point out to politicians that it is impossible for them to deal with all the cases relating to organised crime; - whereas the College of Attorneys General asks that 500 detectives be recruited this year in order to deal with natural redundancies on the one hand and to strengthen the federal judicial police on the other; - whereas it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the judicial police in order to implement the national security plan 2022-2025, as otherwise that plan will no longer be practicable; - considering that 700 detectives are currently working on the file "Sky ECC" for which a series of investigative actions are required to charge the criminals; - whereas the Minister of the Interior has announced in the press that €23.3 million will be invested in the federal judicial police this year; - whereas the Minister of Justice has undertaken to recruit 195 detectives this year; asks the government - remove the linear savings planned for this year and have an impact on all federal police services; - to make the necessary budgetary adjustments to allocate EUR 35 million in additional appropriations to the organic division OA 42, which is part of Section 17 of the Federal Police Department and is specifically at the service of the federal judicial police, in accordance with Article 114 of the law on integrated police; - this year to allocate 500 police officers to and recruit them for all relevant services of the judicial police. These include both the General Directorate of Judicial Police (DGJ), the 4 Central Directors (the Directorate of Special Units (DSU), the Directorate of Judicial Police Operations (DJP), the Directorate of Technical and Scientific Police (DJT) and the Directorate of Combating Serious and Organised Crime (DJSOC)), and the 14 Devolved Judicial Directors. The recruitment of 500 police officers to the judicial police services implies that part of the 1,600 police officers recruited for federal police this year will be assigned to the federal judicial police and that sufficient relations will be opened up during the mobility cycles; - to adapt the Staff Regulations currently in force in the integrated police force in such a way that the federal judicial police can recruit real experts in various fields to combat more effectively forms of crime, using new technologies, particularly complex financial structures, etc.." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ortwin Depoortere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Mrs Vanessa Matz and Ms. Ortwin Depootere, Koen Metsu et Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the general policy note of the Minister of the Interior, namely document DOC 55 2294/018 of 29 October 2021, in which an increase in the operational capacity of the police is announced, as well as a "structural and progressive increase in the budgetary resources of the police"; - Whereas since 1 October 2021 an operational staff member has been seconded to Europol within the framework of the Operational Taskforce set up in the context of the investigation into SKY ECC; - having regard to the political intention to ensure that "the fight against serious and organised crime remains the priority of the Federal Judicial Police (PJF)" and that capacity is directed as a priority towards "the fight against certain phenomena and against criminal organisations and structures having a particularly negative impact on society", namely: - serious and organised financial crime (including social and tax fraud) - violent crime, trafficking and trafficking in human beings - and crime related to organized drug trafficking and corruption; - having regard to the call for distress by the President of the College of Attorneys General concerning the lack of personnel to the Federal Police, expressed in a letter sent at the end of last year by the College of Attorneys General to the Government; - Considering that the President of the College of Attorneys General has recently publicly confirmed this call by reiterating it in various media (French-speaking); asks the government - to meet with the President of the College of Public Prosecutors so that he can speak on this problem and then report on this meeting to Parliament in the relevant committees; - to provide, with immediate effect, for an additional staff capacity dedicated to these tasks of the Federal Judicial Police by means of an appropriate prioritisation and possible reorganisation of certain tasks entrusted to the PJF; - to present in the short term an action plan providing for a lasting and permanent increase in the capacity of the Federal Judicial Police and capable, in the end, of meeting the capacity needs expressed by the College of Attorneys General for the conduct of investigations such as that opened in the framework of SKY ECC; - to inform the House periodically of the progress of this action plan in the relevant committees; - to organise the necessary consultation with the Minister of Justice and all other actors involved on the provision of staff capacity and prosecution policy priorities in the Department of Justice in response to the call for distress made by the College of Attorneys General." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Ortwin Depoostere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz and Mr Ortwin Depoortere, Mr Koen Metsu and Mr Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the policy paper of the Minister for the Interior, known as DOC 55 2294/018 of 29 October 2021 announcing an increase in police operational capacity as well as a "structural and progressive increase in budgetary police resources"; - whereas since 1 October 2021 an operational staff member has been seconded to Europol in the framework of the Operational Task Force established following the investigation of SKY ECC; - having regard to the policy orientation that tackling serious and organised crime remains the focus of the Federal Judicial Police (FGP) and its capacity will be prioritised to combat certain phenomena and criminal organisations and structures that have a very adverse impact on society, in particular: - serious and organised financial crime (including social and tax fraud) - crime of violence, trafficking in human beings and smuggling - and crime linked to organised drug trafficking and corruption; - having regard to the urgent call of the President of the College of Prosecutors-General on the staff shortage in the Federal Police, expressed in a letter from the College of Prosecutors-General to the Government at the end of last year; - whereas the same call was recently reconfirmed by the President of the College of Prosecutors General in various (French speaking) media; asks the government - to hear the President of the College of Prosecutors-General on this issue and to report on this discussion to Parliament in the relevant committees; - to provide, with immediate effect, an ad hoc additional staffing capacity in relation to these tasks of the Federal Court of Justice Police by means of an adapted prioritisation and possible redeployment of certain tasks by the FGP; - propose, in the short term, a plan of action providing for a permanent and permanent increase in the capacity of the Federal Judicial Police which will meet the capacity requirements required by the College of Prosecutors General for carrying out the investigations, for example within the framework of SKY ECC; - periodically inform the Chamber of the progress of this action plan in the relevant committees; - organise the necessary consultations with the Minister of Justice and all other relevant actors on the provision of human resources and the focus on prosecution policy in justice, responding to the emergency call of the College of Attorneys General." A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the arrests of Mrs Vanessa Matz and Ms. Ortwin Depootere, Koen Metsu et Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the continuing question of the lack of personnel and resources in the Federal Judicial Police (PJF); - Considering that the general prosecutors and the King's prosecutors have already found in the past that, given this lamentable situation, the PJF will not be able to implement the priorities set out in the new National Security Plan 2022-2025. On 17 November 2021, these prosecutors drew the Government's attention to the fact that, in the absence of the necessary staff and resources, i.e. an additional €35 million and an additional 1,609 staff, the PJF would be unable to carry out its tasks; - Whereas this situation would involve endangering the security of our society and our fellow citizens; - Considering that public opinion was then able to see the extent of the problems in the media at the end of November 2021. It stated that the PJF could no longer carry out its tasks in the fight against organized crime. The main reasons did indeed prove to be the blatant lack of resources and staff; - Considering that it is strange, to say the least, that such problems are exposed in detail in the media or, worse still, that the actors concerned consider it necessary to mention these concerns in the press, if they do not listen to them by the competent ministers; - considering that the Minister of the Interior publicly confirmed these deficits at an oral question session in the House on 15 December 2021, at which she acknowledged that the budgets were insufficient and that at the end of November 2021 there was still a deficit of 461 FTEs, i.e. 9.5% of the staff at the PJF. On December 23, 2021, the Minister also stated that she was working with senior police officials, including the Directors General of the PJF, on budgets for 2022 and supplementary budgets for the PJF. In this regard, she stressed that they had found in her an ally under the plan called 3.0 to strengthen the PJF by additional cars, personnel and resources; - Whereas a true ally would probably not allow such moments of consultation to be organised once the evil has already been done and the problems have already been brought to the public place; - Whereas for the time being no comprehensive immediate solution seems to be emerging to address the problems facing the PJF; - Whereas this situation is of the utmost concern to the N-VA Group, which will therefore request the organisation of hearings in the Committee on the Interior, in the presence of the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police; asks the government - to recognize, support and anchor the indispensable role of the Federal Judicial Police in the fight against organised crime; - to quantify, publish and discuss the current resource and staffing gaps at the PJF; - to determine the causes of the current escalation; - to set up a system for constructive dialogue with the relevant actors, who have been forced to address the public media in order to make their situation known; - to develop clear action plans for the management of the FJP: what direction does the FJP want to be given, what objectives do it still have to pursue, what will its relationship with the rest of the federal police and what budgets will be provided in return?" A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz and Mr Ortwin Depoortere, Mr Koen Metsu and Mr Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the continuing problem of the lack of manpower and resources in the Federal Judicial Police ("FGP"), - whereas the Attorney General and Prosecutors of the King have previously established that in this appalling situation the FGP will not be able to implement the priorities of the new National Security Plan 2022-2025. They pointed out to the government on 17 November 2021 that without the necessary resources and manpower, i.e. an additional EUR 35 million and an additional 1,609 people, it would be impossible for the FGP to carry out its tasks; - whereas this would imply that the security of our society and citizens is at stake; - considering that public opinion could then take note of the weight of these issues in the media at the end of November 2021. It pointed out that the FGP could no longer carry out its tasks in the fight against organised crime. The main reasons for this have indeed proved to be the acute lack of resources and staff; - whereas it is somewhat strange that such problems are dissected in the media, or rather, that the actors concerned feel the need to communicate these concerns in the press due to the lack of listening capacity of their ministers; - whereas the Minister of the Interior publicly confirmed these deficits during an oral questioning session in the Chamber on 15 December 2021, reflecting the budget deficit and admitting that at the end of November 2021 there was a deficit of 461 FTE or 9,5 % among FGP staff. On 23 December 2021, the Minister also stated that he would be in consultation with the Police Summit, incl. the Director-General of the FGP, on the 2022 budgets and the additional budgets for the FGP. She stressed that "they find in me an ally for their so-called plan 3.0 to strengthen the FGP with more cars, people and resources"; - whereas a true ally may not be so late as to allow such consultations to take place after the bomb has already burst and the problem has been brought out publicly; - whereas at present there seems to be no immediate and comprehensive solution ready to address the problems facing the FGP; - whereas this is a major concern for the N-VA Group and will therefore request hearings in the Committee on Home Affairs with the request for the presence of the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the General Executive Board of the judicial police; asks the government - to recognise, endorse and anchor the indispensable role played by the federal judicial police in the fight against organised crime; - to clearly quantify, publish and discuss current resource and manpower deficits in the FGP; - identify the causes of the current escalation; - to organise a system which will allow constructive dialogue to take place with relevant actors who have now resorted to the public media; - to draw up clear action plans for the policy on the FGP: what path to take with the FGP, what objectives should they still pursue, how will they relate to the rest of the federal police and what budgets will be set against it?" A fourth motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the arrests of Mrs Vanessa Matz and Ms. Ortwin Depootere, Koen Metsu et Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - considering the lack of human and material resources in the Federal Judicial Police; - Whereas, in the words of Mr Ignacio de la Serna, President of the College of Prosecutors General, EUR 35 million per year is necessary for the refinancing of the PJF; - Considering that the means currently provided for by the Government are insufficient to meet the needs of the PJF; asks the government to refinance the Federal Judicial Police up to the means necessary to enable it to function normally and, in particular, to empower the Federal Judicial Police to effectively combat sexual violence and financial crime." A fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz and Mr Ortwin Depoortere, Mr Koen Metsu and Mr Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - whereas the federal judicial police are suffering from a lack of human and material resources; - whereas, according to Mr Ignacio de la Serna, President of the College of Attorneys General, an amount of EUR 35 million per year is required for the refinancing of the FGP; - whereas the resources currently allocated by the Government are insufficient to meet the needs of the PHP; asks the government to refinance the federal judicial police to the extent of the resources needed to ensure normal functioning, and in particular to provide the federal judicial police with the means to combat sexual violence and financial delinquency effectively." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Servais Verherstraeten, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Gilles Vanden Burre. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u96	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the vote on the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u97	Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u98	Mr Minister, you said in committee last week that it was not your intention to publish your note on the hospital reform plan, but that was the case. And I think it's good that the debate is launched. Indeed, the current system of funding our hospitals has been causing enormous problems for a long time. They are funded based on the number of examinations, scanners and operations conducted. It's a machine that has to run otherwise there's no money coming in and it leads to the exhaustion of caregivers, over-consumption and waste. This must change and the previous governments have not acted. Your plan is ambitious when compared to the immobilism of recent years, and I want to stress first of all the positive points. First, you want to remove or limit fee supplements. It is this famous system which means that, for example, when you have a knee surgery for a cost estimated by the INAMI at 500 euros, and you are in a private room, the doctor can ask for up to 2,000 euros instead of 500 for the same procedure. Of course, it's absurdity! Then you want to narrow the income gap between the different specialists. It's also a big concern, we know. All this is very nebulous, but figures come back to us, by investigative journalists among others. Indeed, some specialists earn up to EUR 1 million a year compared to other specialists who sometimes have a tenth of that income. These gaps have become unhealthy and need to be reduced. You also want to increase the direct funding of hospitals instead of going through doctors' fees and that's also a good thing. In the end, you want to concentrate expertise and state-of-the-art technology in some places rather than let each hospital invest huge amounts inconsistently and in a form of competition. These are the positive points of the plan. The PTB will push for these goals and ensure that reform is as serious as possible. However, Minister, I did not jump in joy when I read the plan. On the contrary, this plan is a puzzle in which pieces are missing, and they are very important pieces. Minister, there are some puzzle pieces missing from your plan. The first big puzzle piece that I think is missing from your plan is the care staff. You are making a plan for the reform of hospital funding, without saying a word about the workload in hospitals. After reading your plans, people ask me why you are not talking about the acute shortages and the high workload. I would also like to point out that certain elements of your plan are likely to increase the workload. First of all, you want to bet more on day hospitalization and generally make the hospital accommodations shorter. Ask any nurse what she thinks about that. People who are less long in the hospital and have to go home faster mean heavier patients and higher workload on the ground. The funding you propose will change, but will remain based on the volume of care. A hospital that will do a lot of knee surgery will also get a lot of money. The volume remains the engine. You also want to introduce an important change, because you want to finance by default. This means that for a certain condition such as appendicitis, bridging or infarct a certain budget is given to the hospital. In fact, I've heard from the unions big fears about this pathology funding you want to introduce, because you're going to determine a pathology package, but you don't talk in your note about the management standards. And what will hospitals possibly do? In order to reduce this package, will they not precisely reduce the staff? Will these standards of supervision, which now exist, not disappear? In any case, it is a real fear, and if there are no standards of supervision, i.e., the number of nurses or caregivers who must be at the patient's bedside, funding for pathology risks aggravating the situation and increasing the workload. My fear is that the pressure at work will increase, so that the patient will be sent home faster and the quality of care will decrease. You also want to close the maternity wards. According to a study by the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE), small maternity wards must be closed. I have to tell you that as a mother, as a woman, as a doctor, I can't agree with that. No, childbirth must not become something "effective". It is very important for women to be able to give birth close to home, and the KCE study indicates that the quality of care in small maternity wards is not bad, it is also good. You want to increase efficiency by closing them, and that, minister, I cannot understand. Why are you, too, looking to increase profitability? The care staff is the first part of the puzzle that worries me. The second part of the puzzle, which is also worrying, is that you do not get rid of performance medicine. The doctors' wages in our country are a big taboo. Certain doctors make a lot of money, some less. The biggest problem is that doctors are paid per performance, which means they generate more income as they perform more. That doesn't change anything at the end of the day. In your plan doctors continue to be paid according to quantity and not in function of quality. In our opinion, that should change. Doctors' income must be decoupled from the number of benefits they provide. Doctors must do what they are trained to do. Stop making them bankers, accountants or self-employed. Give them a good, steady salary. It's already happening in university hospitals. Examples abroad also show that this is possible. Mr. Secretary, have you not forgotten the care staff in your plans? What do you say to the excessive workload on the ground today? There's obviously not enough care staff. Have you talked to the unions, or with staff representatives in general, about your plan? How do you deal with the framework standards? How will you ensure that we get more nursing staff to the patient's bed? In the initial period of your appointment, you said that the financing of performance runs counter to its limits. Why don't you deal with that problem in the first place? What's stopping you from actually doing that? Will you effectively close the materials and if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u99	Madam President, Minister, in the meantime we have had some time to study your plan for the reorganisation and financing of hospitals. There are a lot of things in that. Several yards are being addressed: the pay supplements, the payments, the daily hospitalization, the hospital networks. In fact, hospital funding has become a blur over the years. We can certainly agree that much needs to be done to improve the organisation and financing of hospitals. It just needs to be more transparent. It needs to be clearer. It has to be simpler. However, the way in which you intend to bring about these changes raises a number of questions. I've read your note a few times. I even tried to read between the lines. I have also looked for references and footnotes. But nowhere have I found out that you want to work on homogeneous powers. Nowhere do I read that you want to work on transferring care to the Communities. However, that is essential. However, that is also what we were promised. The coalition agreement may not have been clear and forceful, but what was clearly in it, and we were actually very happy about that, was that you and your coalition partners wanted to move towards a more homogeneous division of competences in health care. With care as close to the patient as possible. Reference was made to the federated entities. We therefore thought that the results of the elections had been somewhat taken into account. But now we find nothing of that in your plan that is on the table. Minister, we can no longer justify this fragmented concern and we can no longer afford it. That was also one of the findings of the Covid Committee. We must get rid of this fragmentation, because it had dramatic consequences. In the meantime, everyone agrees on that. But that is not only important in times of crisis. If we want to organise care around the patient, this care from prevention to curation must come in one hand, the hand of the Communities, where we believe it belongs. It's the only way to provide tailored care in every community. It is the only way to demolish the bulkheads between the first-line zones and the hospitals and between the care providers. If we do not do so, waste is inevitable and we do not have enough of the citizens. Nowhere do you refer to the first-line zones and the desirability of grafting hospital networks on them. Nowhere do you refer to the Community differences, which no one can deny. You want to do something about the pay supplements. Many more Walloon and Brussels hospitals ask for sky-high supplements to make their bills work. Even so, they are often in the red. You want to bet more on day hospitalization. In Flanders there are already many more efforts to move to day hospitalization than is the case in Wallonia. Moreover, in Flanders much more is devoted to prevention and more use is made of the first line. In Wallonia, patients turn to specialists and emergency services more quickly. There are many examples and differences. Minister, I do have some pressing questions for you. Who will you discuss your plan with? When can Parliament expect updates? What about the ambition of the coalition agreement, to evolve towards care in one hand and close to the citizen? How will you ensure that the hospitals that are already doing a lot of work are not penalised, that their funding is kept in order and that their supplements are limited, while the other hospitals will be matched with federal and therefore especially Flemish tax money? Why do you not first work on a logical transfer of health care, after which the reforms in each community can be continued? Why aren't you talking about aligning with the first-line zones? Finally, what is the role of health insurance funds in your plan? Do you still consider efficiency gains to be possible with these health insurance funds? Which ones are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u100	I must congratulate you, Minister. Finally, this long-awaited hospital reform is concrete or more concrete. There is already a vision and there is a plan on the table that contains many things that the Flemish Interest can agree to. We support the promotion of cooperation within hospital networks, the limitation of pay supplements, the approach to payments, the evolution towards even more day hospitalizations and so on. If it's okay, we'll tell you. However, it is not a declaration of love and even less a rapprochement between my party and yours. This positive introduction sums up very well what my enthusiasm is about. After all, there is finally a plan. I am concerned about how that plan will be implemented. What's in the plan is very important, but even more important is what's not in it. Nowhere do I read about the fragmented powers or the difference in hospital policy of the different Communities or the high pay supplements in Wallonia and the even higher pay supplements in Brussels. Flanders and Wallonia are unmistakably imposing their own constraints on health care. That's good. That's okay. That's okay. That's okay. For example, Flanders opts more for echeloning. The role of the general practitioner is more prominent, partly because of the fact that many more global medical records are being opened in Flanders. The number of group practices of general practitioners is also much higher in Flanders than in Wallonia. The vaccination rate for cervical cancer, for example, is much higher in Flanders than in Wallonia. In Flanders that is 91%, in Wallonia that is 50%. The number of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants in Flanders is 257, while in Wallonia it is 333. This goes back, of course, to the old very much of the quota system that Wallonia has systematically broken down. If a single room is chosen in a hospital, doctors may charge additional fee supplements. In Flanders, this average is 148%. In Wallonia this is 213% and in Brussels it is 270% on average. Flanders and Wallonia have a radically different patterns of consumption in health care. That is the translation of cultural and related mentality differences between the two communities. The large differences in spending patterns are not objectively justified. The efficiency of health care can only be improved if it is split up. A curative and preventive policy must, in order to be efficient, form a unit and be managed by the same government. Now preventive health care is the responsibility of the Communities, whereas curative health care is essentially a federal competence. The communitarisation of health policy can also contribute to the Community's response to policies that are as sparing and rational as possible. It is clear that the sixth state reform was a failure that must be followed as quickly as possible by a seventh and final state reform, as far as I am concerned. Homogeneous packages must first be transferred to the Communities, for the Communities are responsible for personal matters. It has been enshrined in the Constitution since 1980. This was confirmed in the famous Flemish resolutions of 1999. Health care is now the personal issue and therefore belongs to the Communities, both their powers and their financing, because only then can we achieve a real response. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will the reform of the hospital organisation and the financing of hospitals, in line with what is stated in your government agreement, take account of the transfer of powers and financial resources to the Communities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall keep it fairly brief, because we have already had an exchange of views in committee on this. Mrs Merckx, good health care reform must indeed be accompanied by more investment. That is what we are doing, and this is absolutely not a saving operation. If you compare healthcare expenditure in 2022 with that in 2019, there is a difference of 4.9 billion more. So we're definitely not saving. The budget for hospitals' financial resources is also in a strong growth path. What has been published as a starting point for the debate on hospital reform is not about, for example, the Health Care Staff Fund, the cart you pushed on at the time, the additional recruitments, the measures to make the profession more attractive or the finishing touches of the social agreement. That is not what the note is about, no matter how important these matters are. You quote the example of the materials and that is certainly illustrative. It is certainly not the main point of the note, but it is sensitive. We're not proposing a saving operation at all. A few years ago, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care (KCE) found that there are quite a lot of small materials in Belgium, which prevents good use of the resources, because among other things permanent midwife should be available. This is not easy to organise and increases the risk that no bed is available if someone has to give birth unexpectedly. So it's about quality, good spending of resources and good use of the available people. Much pressure on nurses and midwifes in some larger sizes and relatively perhaps a small staff surplus in small sizes, which is not good when it comes to deploying people. So it's not a saving story. By way of illustration, we'll invest more in the pregnancy path. It may not yet be known here, but in the RIZIV's 2022 budget we are allocating EUR 10 million for a perinatal care course that is ideally targeted at women who are also socially vulnerable. We will invest more in mother and child and will try to ensure that the framework is better organised in the materials. Let me give you another example of how we respond to concerns about staff workload. We do want more daily hospitalization. Does that mean greater workload? No. If one can achieve a shift from classical hospitalization with hospitalization to day hospitalization, then one actually relieves the nursing units. First of all, the night permanence is relieved. It is also an investment story, because we are allocating an additional 9 million to encourage day hospitalization and to better frame it. You referred, at least in your written preparation, to the Gerontologist Peter Janssen, who made a number of absolutely relevant comments on prevention and care for the elderly, among other things. However, you will understand that the note is not about all the problems in health care. In any case, I would like to stress that the note does mention cooperation between hospitals and the world outside hospitals. I think you've read about it, Mrs. Gijbels. We propose, among other things, that hospitals and hospital networks map in the relatively short term how they will cooperate with, in Flanders, first-line zones, in French-speaking Belgium with other structures in the first line. Although I am not directly responsible for this, it is to a large extent a Community competence - I would also like to contribute through the reform note to healthcare pathways across the borders of the hospital, cooperation with the first line. That's literally in the note. Shall we consult? Of course, we will do that, first and foremost with doctors' organisations, hospital administrators and health insurance funds, but it is a good idea to talk to staff's trade unions about this too. We will certainly do that. Mrs Merckx, you say that this is a relevant point - that the reform plan does not completely end the financing of performance. That is correct, but you must also bear in mind what the reform plan must achieve in the first instance. We want to cut the very unhealthy entanglement of financing often expensive equipment in hospitals that needs to be rationalised with the funding of doctors. It is in this respect that, unfortunately, performance funding is very vicious. After all, the more performance, the more funding for the equipment. In this way, there is undoubtedly pressure on doctors and hospitals. If we manage to unravel that and achieve a pure fee, still based on performance, then we have already tackled the very important problem of wrong incentives, focused solely on quantity. Then we can think about the relationship between the fees, viewed purely as compensation for the intellectual work, and the involvement of doctors in the medical corps. There is a great deal of crookedness there, as you yourself have admitted. Then we can also think better about the way in which we want the remuneration of doctors to evolve in the distant future, but this first step is essential. Frankly, I also see benefits in terms of performance financing. The fact that our doctors are always available and that we have a good reputation for acute care also has something to do with the way doctors are financed. So the system has its advantages, but I am also critical of that. Here a first important step is being taken to tackle the most unhealthy aspect of hospital performance financing, and then I think we can achieve a fair and more equitable remuneration, including between doctors. Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Sneppe, you say you're surprised, but I'm a little surprised at your surprise. You didn't think it would be a paper on state reform or division of powers. This is being worked on in the government by ministers Verlinden and Clarinval. They have that assignment. You quoted the government agreement fairly well, and the government does indeed think that a state reform and a better distribution of competences are needed in the health sector, with a view to a more homogeneous division of powers. I fully support that, with great conviction. We are going to work on that, but that is not what this note is about. However, you will agree with me that making hospital funding more transparent and predictable can only be a good thing for any form of state reform that may come. You also say a number of things that amaze me, because you seem to read wrong. You wrote that in De Standaard, too. You say that there is a Community distortion of daily hospitalization. We propose to encourage daily hospitalization everywhere and to re-introduce the concept of improper hospitalization, i.e. the hospitalization of people who can actually be treated in day hospitalization, because that seems to have disappeared. By doing so, one only encourages greater efficiency and uniformity in the approach. So I think you're reading a little wrong about that. The same applies to supplements. I know they're unevenly divided. Moreover, in the note, we say that the supplements are so unevenly distributed between hospitals that no explanation can be found. I do not know any really good explanation for the differences in the height of the supplements and it is important to say that here. That means, Mrs Gijbels, that we will not therefore say that hospitals where many supplements are requested have a good reason, because I do not see them. In fact, we will restrict supplements uniformly everywhere, with percentages and absolute ceilings. The note says that we are also thinking about compensation, but that is not compensation in the sense that where many supplements are requested there is also much funding. I've already broken my mind about that, but I never saw a good explanation for that. So I do not see what I specifically need to finance extra. In general, I think that the pressure on supplements has to do with the fact that the budget is underfunded. We also see pressure from ever-growing payments on doctors' fees. The performance machine has therefore to do with uneven and inadequate funding, something that needs to be done. That's what we say. However, you do not have to worry. If a lot of supplements are requested, this does not necessarily mean that this is justified. That is not automatically linked with extra money. That's not how we're gonna compensate. In that sense, you may see ghosts, you may read the text wrongly or we do not explain well enough what is in the note. As far as the sickness funds are concerned, I think we differ. For me, the health insurance funds are an important partner who really must be involved in this. For everyone, including health insurance, the message must be that we want to make better use of the important additional investments in health care through thorough reforms. That's what we intend to do. Of course, I will keep Parliament informed of this, but I assume that I will also be questioned about it. It is indeed important to have a parliamentary debate on this. It is particularly important that we finally address this yard in an ambitious and efficient way. Madam President, that is my answer to the various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u102	Minister, I am glad that I have kept this interplay. You're going to reform hospital funding. I said you forgot the care staff. And you say that this is outside the scope, that this is not the subject. How is that possible? We keep our hospitals running? Who's at the patient's bed every day? Those are the nurses, they're the caretakers. How could you forget? That's not normal. Of course, you should think about that. You say the budget is increasing. It has actually increased, because the care staff has come out on the street. However, it is not enough. We have seen this in the evaluation of care staff. This interplay has certainly taken care of it, because you have now promised to consult with the staff and their representatives. I'm glad about that. We shall certainly see to it. Then, Minister, ask them what they think of the fact that there are more and more day hospitalizations and shorter hospitalizations, whether this is going to reduce the workload. Nor did you say anything about the framework standards, which is also very important. How many nurses should there be on a shift per number of patients? This must be monitored, otherwise there will be constant savings. They'll tell you and I hope you'll meet them. About the materials, you say it's not a saving. I'm sorry, but if I can give birth as a future mother at 10 kilometers from home and soon have to go 40 kilometers, that's a service that's gone and close to home. That's a saving for me. As far as performance medicine is concerned, you say you're going to take it a little bit, you're going to take the excesses out, but you're not going to do it at all. I think the system has grown completely wrong. More and more doctors choose not to work in that performance system. They see that as a bad thing and want to be paid in a different way. This can already be seen in university hospitals. Mr Marc Noppen recently wrote an opinion paper on this subject, saying that the financing model needs to be changed. And there are foreign examples, which are very inspiring. This has been the subject of bundled funding. Doctors and sickness funds have joined forces and have been financed per population, no longer per performance, with a good wage for doctors. There is less consumption and prevention can be used. I therefore believe that the time has come to go ahead effectively and question performance medicine fundamentally. Minister, I will continue to monitor this. The last word on the reform of hospital funding has not yet been said. I would like to end with a small wink to colleagues nationalists, for whom whatever happens in Belgium has split up as a solution. It's raining in Belgium? Then we have to split Belgium. If there's one subject that doesn't have to be split up, it's the hospitals. How many Flemings are not admitted to hospitals in Brussels? How many walls are being recorded in Brussels? When people say that there must be a competence for certain highly specialised operations, when our country is already a handkerchief, what do we do? Then there must be a specialised centre in Wallonia as well as in Flanders. It can be seen that splitting up hospitals will only cost more money. That makes sense to me. Also the way you pretend the reward is only a problem in Wallonia! Yes, the reward supplements are higher in Wallonia and Brussels. But the rewards, have you seen those numbers? They are twice as high in Flanders as in Wallonia. So yes, there is also a problem with the fees in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u103	Madam President, Minister, we have a fragmented health care system. I'd like to call it a messed-up health care. You'll minimize that now and indicate that you're working on it. You always refer to your colleague. However, the fact that the homogeneous packages of competence are not even worth a footnote in your important note is very significant and, above all, very worrying. I'm afraid you'd like to start building a new house on crummy foundations. The key to better health care lies in the transfer of powers to the Communities. Give care to the Communities. That's where she belongs. Mrs Merckx, each Community makes its own choices. That's her right, too. However, it must be possible to do so on its own responsibility. In fact, we must not save on health care. However, we must not waste anything. If we do not even start the single healthcare system, resources will be lost. This would be far too little focus on prevention, which was also very important in the current covid crisis. Then we will not be working on genuine integrated care and the divisions between the care actors will not be demolished. Minister, I am not talking, as your note says, about consultation and cooperation agreements. I'm talking about a real full care in the same hand. After all, the way in which you avoid the debate every time and every time, apart from the relevant passage in the coalition agreement, flee is really significant. If you do not work first of all on a concern close to the citizen, we think you are failing that citizen. Then you're offering him far too little for his taxpayers' money. We have tabled a motion for a recommendation calling for a transfer of health care to the Communities in order to obtain homogeneous packages of competence, to take account of the efforts already made by hospitals and to prevent the organisation of new financial transfers. We also ask you to consider the role of the sickness funds and to leave sufficient room for care entrepreneurship within the organisation of the hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u104	Mr Minister, the hospital organisation and hospital funding must indeed be reviewed, especially if we want our health care to be ready for the future. There is therefore a need for structural change. In the hospital system the recognition of Flemish and the funding is federal. No matter how people look at it, Mrs Merckx, it's a mess. Minister, this note is indeed not a note on state reform, but I wonder if all these powers are in themselves. There is no reason for higher wage supplements, you say. Indeed, there is no reason, but you keep talking about encouraging. We know what encouragement leads to. In short, the reform of hospitals apart from the communitarisation of health care is inconceivable, incomprehensible and, above all, a missed opportunity for the Flemish interest. The Communities are competent for personal matters. This has been enshrined in the Constitution since 1980 and endorsed in the Flemish resolutions in 1999. At that time, there was already a special focus on financial and fiscal autonomy. Even then, there was talk of homogeneous and coherent packages of competence. Minister, Mrs Merckx, admit that nine health ministers are too many. That's what you're saying. Flanders can do it with a minister. Here too, Flanders has its house in order. Minister, I have not mentioned the transfers. In the name of solidarity, many billions of hard-earned Flemish cents have been flowing into bottomless Walloon wells for many years and still every year, while in Flanders too not all concerns are fulfilled. There are also limits to solidarity. If we cross that line, it is no longer solidarity but stupidity. Mr Minister, on behalf of my party, I have tabled a motion of recommendation asking for the transfer of homogeneous health-care packages to be carried out first and for this to take place in consultation with colleagues from the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u105	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de Mmes Sofie Merckx, Frieda Gijbels et Dominiek Sneppe et and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, -considering that the Minister has made public his plans to reform hospitals and their funding in our country; - Whereas it is positive that the debate should be opened; - Whereas the current funding system leads to over-consumption, waste of resources and exhaustion of health-care staff; Whereas the continuity and quality of care are therefore no longer assured; - Whereas after years of immobilism a reform is imperative; - Whereas the health sector is already crumbling, its staff is exhausted and one in four health professionals wish to leave the sector; - considering that the workload is already too high today and that the staff is at a standstill; - Whereas the Minister wishes to further reduce the length of hospital stays; - Whereas this measure will only increase the workload; - Considering that where there were three patients to be cared for in 2003, there will be four in 2025; - Whereas between 2010 and 2019 alone, more than one hospital bed in ten and 2 000 jobs have already been abolished in Belgium; - Whereas, today, hospitals consider doctors to be, so to speak, bankers they use in order to remedy dysfunctions in public financing; - in the light of the Minister's intentions to remove from the physician's fees the part of the fees due to the hospitals, but not to receive payment per benefit; - Whereas the Minister is seeking funding by pathology; - Whereas such funding will not solve the problem of workload because it remains volume-based and does not allow for the calculation of management standards; - in view of the planned closure of certain maternity wards; asks the government - to finance health rather than disease and therefore to work towards the implementation of coupled funding based on population size and characteristics, integrating generalists, mental health care, prevention and home care; - to review its intention to close 17 small maternity wards; - to abandon the financing per benefit; - to place health workers at the centre of the debate on hospital reform; - to offer doctors a correct and fixed salary, equivalent to that of university professors, as is already done in university hospitals." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Sofie Merckx, Frieda Gijbels and Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - whereas the Minister has made public his plans to reform hospitals and their funding in our country; - considering that it is a good thing that the debate is being opened; - whereas the current financing system leads to overconsumption, waste of resources and exhaustion of care staff; - whereas it no longer ensures continuity and quality of care; - considering the urgent need for reform after years of immobilization; - considering that the care sector is already cracking, with exhaustion of staff and one in four care workers who wish to leave the sector; - whereas the workload is already too high today and staff are burned down; - whereas the Minister wishes to further limit the duration of hospitalisations; - whereas this will only lead to an increase in the workload; - whereas three patients had to be cared for in 2003, there would be four patients by 2025; - whereas between 2010 and 2019 in Belgium alone more than one in ten hospital beds were removed, together with 2000 jobs; - whereas hospitals today, as it were, use doctors as a banker for the lack of public funding; - having regard to the Minister's intention to remove the part of the doctor's fees that goes to hospitals from the fees of honour but does not affect the payment per performance; - considering the Minister's ambition to finance pathology; - whereas such funding does not solve the workload because volume remains financed and because the calculation of the framework standards is thus made impossible; - having regard to the planned closure of certain materials, asks the government - to finance health rather than disease and thus provide a bundled funding based on population and characteristics, integrated with general practitioners, mental health care, prevention and home care; - revise its intention to close 17 smaller sizes; - to reduce the cost of performance financing; - putting care personnel at the heart of the debate on hospital reform; - to give the doctors a good and fixed salary equal to that of university professors. That's already happening in university hospitals." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Frieda Gijbels and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sofie Merckx, Frieda Gijbels and Dominiek Sneppe and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - having regard to the January 2022 note by Minister Vandenbroucke on the reform of the organisation and financing of hospitals; - in view of the many issues raised with regard to the practical implementation of the projects envisaged therein; - in view of the promises made in the Government Agreement concerning the regionalisation of health care; - Whereas the annual MAHA studies of Belfius, which have for many successive years already painted an unwelcome picture of the financial situation of our hospitals, in particular the hospitals of the French-speaking parts of the country, where the fee supplements and the medical overconsumption are exploding in order to be able to balance the budget; - in view of the urgent need for a thorough reform of the financing and organisation of hospitals, which are outdated, not sufficiently targeted and immensely complex, given the risk that hospitals may become unpayable; - in view of the need to ensure maximum respect for citizens and health-care providers in that country and, consequently, the need to allocate as effectively as possible, in the health-care sector, the taxpayer's money and the social contributions of our citizens, in order to be able to provide them with health care of the best possible quality; - in view of the need to ensure sufficient participation of doctors and health-care personnel in the management of hospitals, in particular with regard to the purchase of medical devices; - given the diversity of care landscapes in different parts of the country, where very different accents are placed in care and organization, and whose citizens in other parts of the country cannot be duped; - in view of the fragmentation of health care, which makes it impossible to achieve an effective and comprehensive system of care to the extent of the different Communities; - in view of the need to reward the quality of health care and the Community's (fluctuating) efforts in this field; - having regard to the information recently published in the media that negotiations are under way between Minister Vandenbroucke and the government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation on the quota of doctors and the related INAMI numbers, and given the over-numbers already existing for several decades on the francophone side and the (too) reduced efforts of the Walloon and Brussels governments to remedy them asks the government - to recognise the fundamental differences in health policy between the different Communities and to always ensure that they are sufficiently taken into account in the planned reforms of the financing and organisation of hospitals; - in view of the reform of the financing and organisation of hospitals, to take the necessary preliminary measures with regard to the regionalisation of health care, i.e. the implementation of packages of homogeneous competences within the Communities, as provided for in the government agreement (and in any case not to take measures that complicate the achievement of this objective), and this before the reform of the financing and organisation of hospitals; - to ensure that the Communities, which have already made efforts to organise their care effectively, are rewarded and that, on the other hand, the Communities which have not made efforts or made substantially less do not obtain compensation through federal means, without any financial accountability or sanction; - to take sufficient account of the role of mutualities in the financing and organisation of hospitals and of a policy of health care based on data and potential efficiency gains in these areas in the context of the planned reforms of hospital financing and organisation, and also to ensure sufficient participation of doctors and by extending health-care personnel in the management of hospitals, in particular with regard to the purchase of medical devices; - not to transform the reform of hospital financing and organisation into a new series of financial transfers between the Communities." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Frieda Gijbels and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Sofie Merckx, Frieda Gijbels and Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the letter on the reform of the hospital organisation and financing of Minister Vandenbroucke of January 2022; - having regard to the many questions raised concerning: the practical implementation of the plans contained therein; - having regard to the promises made in the Government Agreement on regionalisation of health care; - having regard to the annual MAHA studies carried out by Belfius, which have for many consecutive years provided a rather unbearable picture of the financial situation of our hospitals, and in particular of those in the French-speaking parts of the country, where the pay supplements and medical overconsumption are a major factor in making the bill even more accurate; - having regard to the urgent need for a thorough reform of the outdated, focusless and immensely complex hospital financing and organisation, in view of the risk of this becoming priceless; - having regard to the need for maximum respect for citizens and healthcare providers in this country and consequently the need for the most efficient use of taxpayers' money and the social contributions of our citizens in order to provide them with the best possible quality of health care; - having regard to the need for adequate involvement of doctors and health care staff in hospital policy, including with regard to: the purchase of medical devices; - in view of the different care landscapes in the different parts of the country, where very different accents are placed in their care and organisation, and whose citizens should not suffer in other parts of the country; - in view of the fragmentation of health care, which prevents an efficient and comprehensive healthcare system tailored to different communities; - in view of the need to reward quality in health care and the (changing) efforts of the communities in this area; - having regard to the recent media reports that negotiations would be under way between Minister Vandenbroucke and the Government of the Federation Wallonie-Bruxelles on the medical quotas and the corresponding RIZIV numbers, and in view of the decades-long transfers on the French-speaking side, which do not face any or all of the efforts of the Walloon and Brussels governments; asks the government - recognise that there are fundamental differences between the health policies of the different communities and to ensure that these are taken into account in the context of the planned reforms of hospital financing and organisation; - in order to reform hospital financing and organisation, take the necessary preliminary measures on regionalisation of health care and, in particular, on the implementation of homogeneous packages of competence within the communities, as provided for in the government agreement (and in any case not to take any measures which make this objective more difficult) prior to the reform of hospital financing and organisation; - to ensure that communities, which have already made efforts to organise their care properly, are rewarded and - on the other hand - communities that have not done so or far less are not compensated by federal means, without any financial accountability or sanctioning; - the role of health insurance funds in hospital financing and organisation and a data-driven health care policy, and the potential efficiency gains to be achieved in these areas, should be sufficiently taken into account in the planned reforms of hospital funding and organisation, as well as ensuring adequate involvement of doctors and, in the event of enlargement, health care staff in hospitals' policies, inter alia. the purchase of medical devices; - not to make the reform of hospital financing and organisation a new set of financial transfers between communities." A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sofie Merckx, Frieda Gijbels and Dominiek Sneppe and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, Whereas the sixth reform of the State has not given rise to homogeneous sets of competences and, as a result, welfare is, for example, the responsibility of the federated entities, whereas its financing remains largely a federal allocation; - having regard to the request of the Vlaams Artsenverbond to entrust all health care to the Communities; - having regard to Zorgnet-Icuro's plea for regionalisation of health care; - having regard to the advocacy of teachers in health economics of the UGent and the VUB in favour of the regionalisation of health care; - having regard to reforms in hospital structures and finances; asks the government - to work towards the transfer of uniform sets of competences in the field of health care and to consult with colleagues in the Communities to this end." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Sofie Merckx, Frieda Gijbels and Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - whereas the Sixth State Reform did not provide homogeneous sets of powers, so that the Länder are competent for e.g. welfare, but their funding is still largely at the federal level. - having regard to the Flemish Association of Doctors' Associations' request to fully entrust health care to the communities; - having regard to Zorgnet Icuro's plea for regionalisation of health care; - having regard to the pleas made by professors of health economy at Ghent University and the VUB to regionalise health care; - taking into account the ongoing reform of hospital structures and finances; asks the government - to work on the transfer of homogeneous health-care competence packages and to do so in consultation with the fellow communities' representatives.' A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Wouter De Vriendt. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Servais Verherstraeten, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Wouter De Vriendt. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u106	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the vote on the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u107	Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u108	By letter of 7 February 2022 Mr. Frank Robben communicates his resignation as a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. By letter dated 7 February 2022, Mr Frank Robben announced his resignation as a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with article 41, paragraph 1, of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, in the event of a vacancy in the term of office of the Knowledge Centre, for any reason, the Chamber must proceed with its replacement for the remainder of the term of office. In accordance with Art. 4 (1) (a) of the Financial Regulation, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 1000000. 41 paragraph 1 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, in the event that a mandate of a member of the Knowledge Centre is open for whatever reason, the Chamber should replace it for the remainder of the term of office. Having regard to Article 40 § 1, paragraph 3, and § 2, of the same Law, the Knowledge Centre has as many French-speaking as Dutch-speaking members and not more than two thirds of the members are of the same sex. Having regard to Article 40 (1) and (2) of the same law, the Knowledge Centre comprises as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members and is not more than two thirds of members of the same sex. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 February 2022, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for a term as a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 February 2022, I propose that candidates for the mandate of the Dutch-speaking Member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority be announced in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u109	The Chamber must proceed to the vote on naturalizations, Nos. 2484/1 and 2. The Chamber should proceed to the secret ballot on naturalisations, Nos 2484/1 and 2. I propose that you proceed to this secret ballot during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 24 February 2022. I propose that you proceed to this secret vote at the plenary session of 24 February 2022. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: - Members may vote from Friday 11 February 2022 until Thursday 24 February 2022 at 4 p.m. Parliamentary documents are available to them in the General Secretariat. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 11 February 2022 until Thursday 24 February 2022 at 4 p.m. Parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that: - only members may vote; - the parliamentary document with the proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed and must be deposited in the ballot box; - if the member does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant, the name of the applicant shall be deleted from the list given to him; - the ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 24 February 2022. I would remind you that: - only members may take part in the vote, - the parliamentary document containing the proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed and placed in the ballot box; - where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list supplied to him; - the urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 24 February 2022. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u110	Voters 97 Stemmen White or invalid 23 Blank or invalid Valid [[74]] Geldig Absolute majority 38 Perfect majority Mme Celik Mukaddes a obtenu 2 voix. Mrs Celik Mukaddes received two votes. Ms. Saloua El Moussaoui obtained 53 votes. Mrs Saloua El Moussaoui received 53 votes. Ms Hannelore Heyligen obtained 0 votes. Mrs Hannelore Heyligen received 0 votes. Ms. Julie Jamaer obtained nine votes. Mrs Julie Jamaer received nine votes. Ms. Askim Kintziger obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Askim Kintziger received 0 votes. Ms Meral Özcan obtained 0 votes. Mrs Meral Özcan received 0 votes. Ms. Alexandra Sanchez obtained 10 votes. Mrs Alexandra Sanchez received 10 votes. Ms. Saloua El Moussaoui, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed alternate of Ms. Ellen Desmet. Mrs Saloua El Moussaoui, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed substitute for Mrs Ellen Desmet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u111	Voters 105 Stemmen White or invalid 14 Blank or invalid Valid 91 Geldig Two-thirds majority 61 Two-thirds majority Alternate Mr. Bart De Temmerman Substitute of Mr Bart De Temmerman Ms. Jole Carlé obtained 78 votes. Mrs Jole Carlé received 78 votes. Ms. Lore Geraerts obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Lore Geraerts received one vote. Mr. Pierre Lefranc obtained 8 votes. Mr Pierre Lefranc received eight votes. Mr. Tom Ruysschaert obtained 4 votes. Mr Tom Ruysschaert received 4 votes. Mr. Henk Schuermans obtained 1 vote. Mr Henk Schuermans received one vote. Ms Jole Carlé, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Bart De Temmerman. Ms Jole Carlé, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was elected as an alternate member of Mr Bart De Temmerman. Substitute of Mr. Marc Allegaert Substitute of Mr Marc Allegaert Ms. Jole Carlé obtained 0 votes. Mrs Jole Carlé received 0 votes. Ms. Lore Geraerts obtained 67 votes. Mrs Lore Geraerts received 67 votes. Mr. Pierre Lefranc obtained 16 votes. Mr Pierre Lefranc received 16 votes. Mr. Tom Ruysschaert obtained 7 votes. Mr Tom Ruysschaert received seven votes. Mr. Henk Schuermans obtained 1 vote. Mr Henk Schuermans received one vote. Ms Lore Geraerts, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Marc Allegaert. Ms Lore Geraerts, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was elected alternate member of Mr Marc Allegaert. Alternate by Mr Pieter Houbey Substitute of Mr Pieter Houbey Ms. Jole Carlé obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Jole Carlé has received one vote. Ms. Lore Geraerts obtained 9 votes. Mrs Lore Geraerts received nine votes. Mr. Pierre Lefranc obtained 69 votes. Mr Pierre Lefranc received 69 votes. Mr. Tom Ruysschaert obtained 1 vote. Mr Tom Ruysschaert received one vote. Mr. Henk Schuermans obtained 11 votes. Mr Henk Schuermans received 11 votes. Mr Pierre Lefranc, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Pieter Houbey. Mr Pierre Lefranc, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed Deputy Member of Mr Pieter Houbey.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u112	Voters 106 Stemmen White or invalid 7 Blank or invalid Valid 99 Geldig Two-thirds majority 66 Two-thirds majority Category 'Magistrate or Professor of Law' Category 'Magistraat or Professor of Law' Mr. Pierre Jacobs obtained 2 votes. Mr Pierre Jacobs received two votes. Ms. Françoise Tulkens obtained 93 votes. Mrs Françoise Tulkens received 93 votes. Mr. Melchior Wathelet obtained two votes. Mr Melchior Wathelet received two votes. Françoise Tulkens, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Magistrat or professor of law'. Mrs Françoise Tulkens, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category 'Magistraat or Professor of Law'. Category 'Former Members of the House and/or Senate' Category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate' Ms. Jacqueline Herzet obtained 81 votes. Mrs Jacqueline Herzet received 81 votes. Mr. Etienne Knoops obtained 82 votes. Mr Etienne Knoops received 82 votes. Ms. Marie José Laloy obtained 88 votes. Mrs Marie José Laloy received 88 votes. Mr. Melchior Wathelet obtained 11 votes. Mr Melchior Wathelet received 11 votes. (1) Ms. Jacqueline Herzet, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former Members of the House and/or the Senate'. Ms Jacqueline Rezet who received the two-thirds majority of the votes was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate'. (2) Mr. Etienne Knoops, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former Members of the House and/or the Senate'. Mr Etienne Knoops, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Committee for the category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate'. (3) Marie José Laloy, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or the Senate'. Ms Marie José Laloy, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Committee for the category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate'. Category 'Former agents' Category 'Former Mandataries' Ms. Alice Baudine obtained 85 votes. Mrs Alice Baudine received 85 votes. Mr. Melchior Wathelet obtained 85 votes. Mr Melchior Wathelet received 85 votes. (1) Alice Baudine, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former Agents'. Ms Alice Baudine, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Mandates." (2) Mr. Melchior Wathelet, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former Agents'. Mr Melchior Wathelet, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category 'Former Mandates'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u113	Voters 107 Stemmen White or invalid 5 Blank or invalid Valid 102 Geldig Two-thirds majority 68 Two-thirds majority Category 'Magistrate or Professor of Law' Category 'Magistraat or Professor of Law' Mr. Antoon Boyen obtained 12 votes. Mr Antoon Boyen received 12 votes. Mr. Matthias Storme obtained 87 votes. Mr Matthias Storme has received 87 votes. M. Willem Drives a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Willem Verrijdt received 0 votes. Mr Matthias Storme, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Magistrat or Professor of Law'. Mr Matthias Storme, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category 'Magistraat or Professor of Law'. Category 'Former Members of the House and/or Senate' Category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate' Monica De Coninck obtained 85 votes. Mrs Monica De Coninck received 85 votes. Mr. Luc Willems obtained 85 votes. Mr Luc Willems received 85 votes. M. Johan De Roo a obtenu 93 voix. Mr Johan De Roo received 93 votes. (1) Monica De Coninck, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former Members of the House and/or Senate'. Ms Monica De Coninck, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate'. (2) Luc Willems, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former Members of the House and/or the Senate'. Mr Luc Willems, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Committee for the category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate'. (3) Mr Johan De Roo, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or the Senate'. Mr Johan De Roo, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Committee for the category 'Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate'. Category 'Former agents' Category 'Former Mandataries' Mr. Eddy Boutmans obtained 89 votes. Mr Eddy Boutmans received 89 votes. Mme Edith Van den Broeck a obtenu 84 voix. Mrs Edith Van den Broeck received 84 votes. (1) Mr. Eddy Boutmans, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former Agents'. Mr Eddy Boutmans, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category 'Former Mandates'. (2) Ms Edith Van den Broeck, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category 'Former Agents'. Mrs Edith Van den Broeck, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category 'Former Mandates'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u114	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 February 2022, I propose that you request, under Article 259bis-12, § 1, of the Judicial Code, the opinion of the Superior Council of Justice on: - the bill (MM. Ben Segers and Jan Briers) amending, with regard to judges and officers of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Act of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to table a list of mandates, functions and professions and a declaration of assets, No. 819/1; - the proposal for a special law (MM. Servais Verherstraeten and Jan Briers) amending the Special Act of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to file a list of mandates, functions and professions and a declaration of assets, No. 1533/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 February 2022, I propose, pursuant to Article 259a-12 (1) of the Code of Justice, that the Court of Justice should give an opinion on: - the legislative proposal (Mr Ben Segers and Mr Jan Briers) amending, as regards the judges and officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and appeals and an asset declaration, No. 819/1; - the proposal for a special law (Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Jan Briers) amending the special law of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and appeals and an asset declaration, No. 1533/1. The majority of the members of the House of Representatives must support this request. The majority of the members of the Chamber of Representatives should support this request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. Accordingly, the House adopts the proposal (s. 61, No. 4, Rgt). Consequently, the Court adopted the proposal (Art. 61, No. 4, Rgt).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u115	The government called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill on various tax provisions and the fight against fraud, No. 2472/1. The government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various tax provisions and the fight against fraud, No. 2472/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u116	Madam Chair, this bill ensures the implementation of the decisions taken in the Ministerial Committee on Combating Tax and Social Fraud in the context of the fiscal trajectory in the fight against fraud, as included in the multi-year budget. In particular, the intended positive effect depends on the time of entry into force. In addition, the draft contains provisions on the taxation of natural persons, which must be clarified as soon as possible for the taxpayers concerned. Finally, the obligation to always offer the possibility of payment by electronic means is introduced. In order to provide the necessary information to stakeholders on the ground, the legal framework should be finalized as soon as possible. That is why the urgency is being asked for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u117	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u118	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending several provisions relating to Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 made pursuant to the Act of 27 June 1969 amending the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 concerning social security for workers, No. 2492/1. The Government also requested the urgency declaration, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law amending certain provisions relating to Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers, No. 2492/01. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u119	Madam President, this request for urgency is justified by the following. The temporary system of the Act of 24 December 2020 on voluntary work expired on 31 December 2021. From 1 January 2022, the government decided to provide for a definitive and stable system, in consultation with the actors concerned. This new system requires the adoption of a law and a royal decree. The measure must enter into force on 1 January 2022 in order to ensure legal certainty for employers, employees and the administrations concerned as soon as possible. That's why the emergency is called for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u120	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u121	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u122	Madam President, we are asking for urgency with regard to the bill amending the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, aimed at introducing a rebuttable presumption of wage-earning for workers on digital platforms, No. 2478/1. For years, platform workers have had a legislative framework that makes them worse. They have no guarantee in terms of minimum wage, no protection in the event of an accident at work, no acquisition of pension rights, no union representation, no or very little social protection. Today, six years after the law on the collaborative economy and two years after the health crisis, these workers have become increasingly impoverished and their situation is not improving. There is no unanimity in the government on this matter. Some have platform workers in their hearts but few concrete actions can be seen. Others prefer to support bosses over workers. For this reason, we believe that it is really time to choose, and we ask that this bill that gives real status to platform workers be urgently debated. So I hope to have the support of the assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u123	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u124	Mr De Roover, during the oral questions you asked me very critically why you were further on the list. I've asked the services. An analysis has been made and that you have not received the e-mail is not due to the services of the Chamber; the cause lies with your own computer system. Your group secretary has been contacted to put that point on the table regarding the security of your computer system. It is therefore an internal problem, because all the members of your group have not received an e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u125	Madam President, it seems that six members of my group have received the e-mail, the rest, 18 Members, have not. I didn't get it. So there's a technical problem. Probably the e-mails of the Chamber are being put away in some sort of spam folder. That must indeed be clarified, because only six of our Members have received the e-mail. That's very strange, because their addresses also have the extension @n-va. We need to figure it out technically.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u126	The network manager's analysis shows that this is a problem in the N-VA computer system. The problem is probably related to the security system that blocks a category of e-mails. I can't tell you any more. We need specialists. I advise you to check it out. With regard to the paper copies, I confirm that the copies made available to the group leaders are all the same and were the same as those available to me. These were up-to-date. That way, things are clear to everyone. Let us not leave any doubt as to the quality of the work done by our services. I think we can move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u127	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 1 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 1 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 237/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Theo Francken; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 237/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u128	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u129	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 2 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission on 2 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 244/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 244/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u130	We all know that the problem of violence against police and aid workers is not a new problem. This has been manifesting for years. Unfortunately, it is also a problem which has been growing considerably lately. It is also an incredibly underestimated problem. We are all convinced that any form of violence in general, and against aid workers and police in particular, is absolutely unacceptable and needs to be tackled vigorously. The dismissal of these files can and should no longer be allowed. Only zero tolerance can be the message here. The Minister of Justice has repeatedly promised to pursue a firm lick-on-piece policy, but unfortunately the reality is different. That is why we are calling for urgent initiatives to be taken to tackle all forms of violence against the police and aid workers in the broadest sense of the word and to take the necessary legislative initiatives to ensure that this form of violence is prosecuted. In doing so, it is absolutely necessary to provide the public prosecutor with the necessary human and financial resources to enable this to be done in practice. There's the Minister's promises, but there's more. There is also a very clear government statement, which explicitly states: "The personal security of police and aid workers is better protected. Violence against police and aid workers is strongly combated by focusing on zero tolerance. The perpetrator of any form of violence against police and aid workers should appear before the criminal court as soon as possible." Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you really mean it, if your declaration of government is not a piece of paper, then today you are not arrogantly moving to the order of the day, but you are sending a very clear signal to the police and the aid workers that you are supporting them and absolutely no longer tolerate any form of violence. In that case, you will support my motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u131	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u132	Yes 83 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u133	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Five motions were tabled (MOT No. 250/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ortwin Depoortere; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu; - a fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Servais Verherstraeten, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Gilles Vanden Burre. Five motions were tabled (MOT No. 250/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Ortwin Depoostere; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu; - a fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u134	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u135	Yes 78 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u136	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 253/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Frieda Gijbels; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Servais Verherstraeten, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf et Wouter De Vriendt. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 253/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Frieda Gijbels; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Wouter De Vriendt. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u137	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u138	Yes 79 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u139	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gaby Colebunders cs to Article 7.(2430/11) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gaby Colebunders cs on article 7.(2430/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u140	Yes 30 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an article 7/1(n).(2430/11) Vote on amendment No. 3 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an article 7/1(n).(2430/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u141	Yes 30 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an article 7/2(n).(2430/11) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an Article 7/2(n).(2430/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u142	Yes 30 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an article 7/3(n).(2430/11) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an Article 7/3(n).(2430/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u143	Yes 30 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an article 7/4(n).(2430/11) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an Article 7/4(n).(2430/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u144	Yes 30 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an article 7/5(n).(2430/11) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an Article 7/5(n).(2430/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u145	Yes 30 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Gaby Colebunders cs to Rule 41.(2430/11) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Gaby Colebunders cs on article 41.(2430/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u146	Yes [[11]] Yes No. [[114]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 41 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 41 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an article 41/1(n).(2430/11) Vote on amendment No. 9 by Gaby Colebunders cs to insert an article 41/1(n).(2430/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u147	Yes [[11]] Yes No. [[113]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u149	Yes 99 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u151	Yes [[120]] Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u153	Yes 75 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u154	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u155	Yes [[120]] Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u156	Vote on Amendment No 13 of Sofie Merckx cs to Article 2.(2376/13) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sofie Merckx cs on Article 2.(2376/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u157	Yes [[28]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to Article 2.(2376/13) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on Article 2.(2376/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u158	Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 12 by Barbara Not css to article 2.(2376/13) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 2.(2376/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u159	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Wim Van der Donkt cs to insert an article 2/1(n).(2376/13) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to insert an Article 2/1(n).(2376/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u160	Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u162	Yes 106 Yes No. [[10]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u164	Yes 81 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u166	Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u168	Yes 81 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u170	Yes 119 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u172	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u174	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u176	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u178	Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u180	Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u182	Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u184	Yes 106 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u186	Yes 99 Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u187	Mr Guillaume Deffosé voted as his group did in favour of voting 1. Mr Piedboeuf voted like his group for votes 1 and 2. Mr Jean-Marc Delizée voted as his group for votes 2 and 3. Mr Malik Ben Achour voted as his group for votes 2 and 4. Mr Hervé Rigot voted like his group for votes 1, 2, 3 and 4. In favour of vote 13, Mrs Goedele Liekens, like her group, voted. Vote 13: Ms. Sophie Rohonyi voted in favour. Mrs Nawal Farih, like her group, voted for votes 13 and 14. Laurence Zanchetta voted as her group did in favour of voting 14. Mr Dieter Vanbesien, like his group, voted for votes 17, 18, 19 and 20. Mr Peter Mertens, like his group, voted in favour of vote 24. Mrs Nathalie Gilson voted in favour of votes 1 to 16 and 21. Mrs Kim Buyst and Mr Kiristoft Calvo voted in favour of all the votes as their group did. Mrs Cécile Cornet voted like her group for all the votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip163x.u188	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. I see that you remain very attentive to approve the agenda. What time? I suggest you take 2:15 p.m., with an option for 10:00 a.m., just in case! [[Hilarity]] No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 17, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 February 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
