tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 58th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Congressmans, before we make the first word off the agenda, there's a very big hum in the General Assembly, Congressmans, and if we can get the peace, I'll promise our friends who want the word off the agenda, who want the word off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Ismail Tamer, a member of the Kayseri MP who asked for a speech on leprechaun disease. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0002par0017	Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself every year on the last Sunday of January, due to Lepra, Leprom Week. I salute the High Council. The cause of lepra's disease is ▪mycobacterium leprechaun. This microbe is similar to TB. Since it was first described by Armauer Hansen in 1876, it is also known as ▪Hansen's disease. It moves very slowly, not highly contagious. A long-term leprechaun could be exposed if he stays with anyone. It can be transmitted through the mouth, through the nose and through the droplet infection. The body has an incubation period between two and seven years. From the moment this incubation begins to make disease, the body is now diseased, creating records, through sensory nerves or motor nerves transmitted from the limbs to the brain. And, of course, once you start making these records, there could be symptoms in the body. The skin has red and blue bulges, which are called "papul" (also known as "papul"). There may be a slight red plaque on the skin again. It can produce more nodules the size of walnuts, the size of peas in the arms and legs around the face and the eye. It also makes scars on the skin, which can create skatrist tissues.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0003par0021	Turan Saylan is also suffering from the bones! Ah Türkan Saylan ah!
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0002par0022	Of course, there may also be loss of feeling from the arms and legs, there may be slight bleeding, there may be obstructions in the nose, and there may be pain in the whole body in general. The disease is treated in 1981 with a treatment schematic determined by the World Health Organization. Treatment: There is a certain cure, but after a long-term treatment, at least six months or a year, the disease can be completely eradicated. Lepra was targeted for elimination in 2000 by a decision made in the 44th World Health Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0004par0025	Teacher, what happened to Türkan Saylan? Turkan Saylan, the heroic woman who fights leprosy.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0002par0026	Elimination: 1 person can be seen in 10,000 people, and you can talk about elimination. In 1985, it fell to four countries in 2006 when it was 120. There are about 210 thousand patients in the world in 2010. In our country, there are about 1,500 patients. Our patient: Especially in our country, in the last year of 2010, three patients and then two patients have been found among the countries that bring their prevalise to 1 in 10,000, and our country is in a state that beats disease in pre-prevalence. In that respect, I'd like to thank the Ministry of Health. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, I'd like to tell you about a project with 36 projects with public-private partnerships in Kayseri, and a bed capacity of 40,000 beds. In this project with 1,583 beds -- built in October by our Prime Minister -- a 680-bed general hospital in the hospital here, a 258-bed maternity hospital, a 100-bed capacity forensic psychiatric hospital, and another 126 bed-accessive psychiatric hospital, a 200-bed rehabilitation centre, a 115-bed cardiovascular system and a large complex of KVC hospital. We plan to finish in March 2014. Hopefully, this project, especially at the beginning of city hospitals, will be a blessing to both our country and our nation. Meanwhile, we are eager to take our 40,000 beds to bed with other hospitals, which are qualified to be built by the TOKI. My regards and greetings to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoğlu who wants to talk about sports problems in Ankara province and the situation of Ankara Power Club. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0006par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, I have made a promise regarding Ankara's sports problems and the problems of Ankara's forces in private. My respects to all of you. Our dear congressman friend just gave a speech about Lepra Week. On this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude once again for the late Turkan Saylan, who has worked so hard in Turkey to diagnose leprechaun disease and treat it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, directing requires knowledge, sincerity, morality, and patience, along with many factors. Of course, such qualities are much more needed when it comes to public administration. Sports is also a public service. It's also a very important issue in a country with a very large young population, such as Turkey. And when you say sports, football comes to mind. Football is the most popular sport in the world today. There are many sides to football. There's a theme, it's about human health, it's about body, it's about mental health, but football has become a particular industry in our age. Many countries can make money because of urban football. You've all heard of Barcelona. In addition to Barcelona's weekly matches, 10,000 or 15,000 foreign tourists watch. Of course, Barcelona's contribution to it is of great importance and quantity. Football has become an industry in itself. By the way, I'm running out of time, too. I'll try to make my point very quickly. Now, Ankara is a city where migration from village to town is very fast; its young population is many; it has 13 universities. In a city like this, sports is very important, football is very important. Ankara is a very poor city in the sports facility, a very poor capital, has problems. May 19th Stadium, Cebeci Stadium, according to reports from the Ministry of Public Works two years ago, poses a risk, a danger. We didn't create the Ankara spirit in a place like this. No one says I'm from Ankara. I'm from Ankara in a city that's taken so many migrations. There are no people who say, "I'm from Ankara." But sports, especially football, is a tool that can serve it, is very important. With regard to the team's spirit, the city's spirit can be combined with the city's team, and a citizen's spirit can be created, and many places have done so. There are examples of this in Turkey; primarily it comes from Tripoli, it comes from Bursa, it comes from Izmir. Such examples have been created. Ankara unfortunately lost two very valuable clubs due to internal strife, because of selfish, egoistic executives, who are about to lose. An Ankaraspor, an Ankara power, is worth nearly 200 million liras, these are the teams. At 200 million liras, a very ambitious team could be created to play for the championship in Turkey, a sports facility could be opened to Ankara's poor, non-sport space, every neighborhood -- a very important sum -- but it was not possible to be a champion; only because of the egoistic attitudes of the elected rulers of Ankara, unfortunately, has reached a very bad, negative point. However, the Ankara Force is one of Turkey's oldest clubs founded in 1910, a club that joined the Liberation War, gave martyrs and veterans. Today, if we are able to sit at this time, those who founded the Ankara Power Club and fought with the Ankara Power Club for this country, the martyrs, the veterans, have a great contribution. We all owe it to the Ankara Power Club. Yes, our esteemed MP, Aylin Nazlıaka, our Minister of Sports -- they deal with it from time to time -- the Ankara Club Association has been working on this, but unfortunately that's not enough. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Ankara power has a large amount of debt; it needs all of our support, even though it can't pay its employees. I specifically wanted to draw your attention to these matters. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0007par0052	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Ali Longırmak, the Aydın MP who wants to talk about the chaos of football. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0008par0057	I think it would be helpful if the Minister friends listened. Respected President, respected lawmakers, I've taken an off-the-book commitment to the chaos of our football. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a preliminary diagnosis here and share with you something very honest. If we get a chance to take an objective look at our feelings of decency, our sense of interest, we'll serve Turkey much better. What's my point? My intention is that Turkey does not discuss its issues correctly. As long as we don't discuss our issues correctly, there's no way we can get the right diagnosis and make salvation a prescription. Management is an art, art is a philosophy, so it's a philosophical issue. If we don't apply our management methods correctly, then we won't be able to direct them properly. If we attempt to govern with the concerns of interest or fear of privacy, we will be making some mistakes that the government has made today, which are the most important mistakes the government has ever made. Even our historical institutions in Turkey have become all-clumeric. What's the matter with you? Because the AKP is fighting institutions in a sense of rematch, in a sense of conquest, and in a sense of revenge. So, this war that we've made every institution in Turkey, from our social life, from our foreign policy, to our economy, we can't discuss any of our issues properly until we get to the sport. Dear lawmakers, we made a law on sports clubs in Turkey with the number 6222... in the name of violence in sports, with the daily events of that day. Here we opposed it, and we said, "This is too easy and too sudden. This was not the correct diagnosis. Thus, in order to take over there, to manage there, the AKP has arrived in the open position in the Federation elections, where, as it is today, it has come to place, in the rear of the milk, in some government mistakes, unfortunately, it has led Turkey to the chaos that Turkey has come to in sports today. As in all areas, it is said today that even our national team can be banned from international competitions. Therefore, I warn the government now: If the Turkish national team is banned from international sports competitions by UEFA because of the mistakes made by the clubs and the national team cannot go to international competitions because of its weakness, then the AKP government is responsible, and no one else is responsible. Why am I saying this? Dear friends, the leagues are over on May 14th, before the leagues are over, a number of wiretaps, investigations have begun, and the AKP government is likely to delay and postpone the end of the leagues, and then the election of the Turkish Football Federation is on the agenda. In that election, the government sided with the president of the Football Federation and the president of the Football Federation's election, let's not have that. At the point of that election, there were a number of names that came to Mr. Prime Minister's mouth even on that day. Today's management of the Football Federation found the bomb in his lap, and we know the president and his administration are truly honest, sincere, successful people, but they found the bomb in their laps. Aman, the elections have arrived after the Football Federation's administration, so let's not take anyone against us. The investigation has been postponed after the elections, and many victims and many other members have been released due to the outcome of the post-election, and I say again in the position that came today: let the ruling be expected. It is called "The decision of the judge." It is said but the mouth of the authorities has now been forced to confess, and let the decision of the Federation congress be carried out into an environment where the failure has been confessed. But I would like to share one thing with you: if the Chief of General Staff in this country is spoken of two years before the Andic case, and arrested two years later, if the former Chief of Staff is still talking about it and waiting for the day when he will be arrested, then the government is interfering with justice behind the milk. This is today's arrest. This is today's agenda, and sports is being dragged into chaos at this point. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if he can't participate in international competitions, I'll say again, the government is responsible for this, he needs to take the initiative and do what he needs to do. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Mr. Secretary, one second, now there's some commitment demands, and I'll give them to you, and then I'll promise you. Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0010par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to Lepra Week, I wish all our patients in our country with this disease an urgent recovery. I also remember my beloved Turkan Saylan, the architect of our country's war with the leprechaun, with longing and mercy. I think those who dragged themselves through the gates of court in the last days of their life, those who tried to declare a traitor, I hope today they have a bit of a bad conscience, a little blush. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0011par0075	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. On January 24th last week, in the 19th year of his murder, we mercifully and gratefully commemorated the great man, journalist, journalist, and defender of the principles of equality and justice. Today is the anniversary of the death of another important man, a great lawyer, who has embraced the principles of equality and justice. On 31 January 1990, Muammar Aksoy was shot to death in front of his house in Bahçlievler, Ankara, and buried in the darkness of the unknown. I remember Muammar Aksoy in the twenty-second year of his death, his death, his murder, with the belief that we will capture such an unknown political environment, political climate, and carry out such political power. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0013par0081	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Misakimilli was adopted by the last Ottoman Mebusan Assembly by a unanimous vote on 28 January 1920. This Mysakimilli is actually the political manifesto of our nation's entire independence and of our country's integrity and of our national Liberation War, and of the new Turkish state that we have established after the war, which eliminates all obstacles that could have been broken. It's a social contract covering the conditions that our nation has agreed to live together, which our nation has launched to establish a new and nationally independent state. On that day, when the framework of the Mysakimlilillah was established, the first place to listen, to listen, to understand, to emulate, to feel mutual respect and sacrifice to the one and to respect the other and to respect the racial and social rights of the environment is an integral place. And we, as descendants of those who stood as a fortress in the face of that day's non-divisible attacks, will cry out from this stand today that we will not be able to bring about the indivisible integrity of the state, that we will stand in the face of the independence of the nation, that we will stand in the face of the undistributable integrity of the state, that we will show the same determination today. Like that day, it is the foundation of our lives and our lives that we are granted full independence and freedom to ensure that our national and economic gains don't fail. For the sake of the state, we will face all difficulties and attacks with unwavering faith. Like that day, we are today against internal and external forces... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will continue to resist with all our might, and we will always keep our efforts to bring the Republic of Turkey, entrusted to us, above the level of murky civilizations.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0015par0088	Thank God. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Republican People's Party (CHP) Ankara MP Mr. Bkent Kuşoglu has just expressed Ankara's problems with sports and special Ankara Power Club. Ankaragü is the oldest club in Ankara. Football is a big phenomenon in the world, and we can't keep the Ankarans away from it. As a former athlete who is interested in the economic problems of the Ankara Force, I am deeply sorry and today we have made various attempts to support our young brothers and sisters along with my dear friends in Ankara. Just by the end of the season, there was a number that was delivered to me, and we want to explain this next week, along with my very dear brothers in Ankara, who loved the Ankara power, and the price that I was given was 200,000 TL, and we have now provided the cost of this need. We know that these brothers, of course, are honored to wear the Ankara power jersey. Hopefully, we'll all announce our support here next week. I'm asking everyone to deal with the financial problems of the Ankara Power Sports Club as an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0017par0095	Mr. Suat Kılıç, Minister of Youth and Sports, will respond to off-the-book talks. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0018par0103	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Longırmak and Mr. Kusoglu have made a commitment to respond on behalf of the government. Very respected lawmakers, it is impossible not to participate in the assessments of the Ankara-force football team. It is not necessary to be an Ankara MP or Ankara MP to participate in the assessments made regarding the Ankara power football team. Ankara, first of all, is the capital of our republic, and, of course, what the hearts desire, is that the Ankara power's representation in the Super League will continue uninterrupted. It's our most heartfelt desire. But everybody knows that it's a reality that our lawmakers here know very well, that the financial management of clubs, the financing of clubs, continues to exist in Turkey, especially as the most important problem in the football sector. In this sense, the universal principles for the establishment of the rules of gentlemanliness in terms of the financial fair play of UEFA and FIFA and for managing the financial ground in the framework of these rules are dictated to the national football federations of all countries. In this sense, the Turkish Football Federation has an inevitable duty to demonstrate regulations, warnings, directional and management performance that all football clubs in Turkey -- particularly Sports Toto and Super League -- must respect universal rules in terms of fiscal management. The financial picture, which will appear if every coming administration tries to manage the other amateur majors in its own direction of desire and desire, will unfortunately not present a sustainable performance in the long term. It's the process. My words aren't just for the Ankara Power. In general, all clubs are obliged to take care of debt policies, management performances, transfer policies. This is expressed today by the presidents of football clubs, as well as by club presidents in non-football majors. All neutral, non-managemental observers are issues that are being expressed, expressed and expressed by anyone who understands the subject but doesn't understand the subject, but who understands the monetary policy, the financial policy, the financial direction of the business. In terms of government, I'd like to state immediately that since the 2003-2004 season, the 2011-2012 football season, including this year's Sports Toto Super League competition, is $18.9 million in cash paid to the Ankara Power Sports Club, 18 trillion 941 billion Turkish Lira. And this year, the price for the right of name has been paid in the same way. In addition, 14 Anatolian teams, including Ankara power, were paid in cash to each of our institutions for 800,000 euros, due to the fact that the right to a name is at the Sport Toto Super League institution, which belongs to our Ministry. But it has to be said that, despite everything, if the number, quantity, volume of external payments, whatever they can't develop, there's no way that the conditions can be changed by external contributions. It's a reality, we need to see it. As in the proverb, the transport doesn't turn the mill with water. To some extent, these opportunities allow the clubs a break, but what's important is that long-term sustainable financial management performance can be revealed. It's not just Ankara power, but I repeat, it's a condition that applies to all football clubs. Unfortunately, the other thing that upsets us is that when football clubs become unmanageable, especially due to the burden of debt due to their transfer policies, the first baggage to be thrown off the ship becomes support for amateur majors, amateur majors are out of the question in the first place. So even if football continues to preserve its life under difficult circumstances, many majors from volleyball, basketball, wrestling, athletics, unfortunately, have become unsustainable, athletes are left at the door with their trainers, cannot be financed, the burden of the clubs having these athletes falls on the state or federations at each time, and Turkey can't afford to perform the desired performance in international competitions in any way. Therefore, the right management of football is a need that we desire more than anyone else because when football is directed correctly, the desired success of all sports in Turkey will be achieved. From time to time, it can also be a subject of controversy with scientists. Is it a problem for us that Turkish athletes fail to achieve the desired successes of international competitions, that they fail to obtain medals on the desired scale, that there is a genetic problem? Why can't Turkish children succeed in sports? The question is asked a thousand times, but the answer is clear. There's nothing genetic about sports, there's a chance that Turkish children can achieve success when supported by clubs, but here I repeat, there are tasks for all of us in power-mutation, which we aim to submit to the assessment of the club's law within the next months of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In this sense, both opposition and power will need everyone's contribution. Therefore, we are obliged to discuss this problem on a purely political basis. On the other hand, I've been very upset about the Ankara Power Club recently, especially given the assessments made by its trainer and football players on their media reports. In the second half, we were forced to wear jerseys that were worn in the first half and wet from sweat or rain or weather. They had an explanation in the form of the second half. In this statement, we, the Ministry, have found that although there is nothing more we can do for the Ankara power legally, there is no number to pay for the right to name, we have found that despite the fact that we do not have the right to address the conditions and resources, we have decided to sponsor or sponsor all of our distinguished club's needs, including materials by the end of the year. In this sense, about ten days ago, the Ankara Power Club executives and the Ministry officials contacted them. I want you to know that the list of materials needs has not yet been made to our Ministry. From the moment this list arrives in our Ministry, we will strive to honor its need for them in this sense as a spiritual duty. Hakan, thank God our MP is referring to the initiative of civil society. In fact, anyone whose business is Ankara, tax plate, tax address is Ankara may need to catch a break out of here. I'm thinking cities, city people and city industrialists, businessmen, that city, must have a duty to own clubs and football or sports brands that become the brand of the city. They've been informed of a $200,000 need. We've provided a $200,000 sponsorship. By supplying this, we'll transfer it from cash to Ankara power. They said, "It's not possible to turn the mill with transport water." In a corporate sense, it is imperative that Ankara's forces present a vision of a new financial governance. The other issue, Mr. Tallırmak, is the issues of football in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, I have the benefit of reminding you that the changes made in Law 6222 are the common product of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. While the law was changing, we opposed it. Such an approach is not the right approach today, so it's the signatures of groups that matter.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0019par0113	We have conversations, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0018par0114	I don't think it's very meaningful to oppose the individual after the bands signed it. Despite the time that has passed over those changes, changes have been wrong. There has been no general opinion in public or in sports. In other ways, Turkey's longing for years was the need for the Turkish Football Federation to be autonomous, to make and implement its own decisions independently. Recently, the Turkish Football Federation is experiencing the most autonomous process. UEFA directives, FIFA rules and requirements, we have expressed our views a thousand times on every basis in Turkey that the Turkish Football Federation should move in this direction. We have expressed on every basis that this process is not a political process, that decisions to be made during this process should not be bonded to politics, that right or wrong decisions cannot be paid back to the political institution. I repeat: there is no political aspect to the decisions made by the Turkish Football Federation. There is no political impact on the chairman of the Turkish Football Federation or its administration. The chairman of the Turkish Football Federation and the mandate of its administration is to enforce the requirements of the regulations and laws they have under the principle of neutrality. It's their own initiative to wait and wait for judgment. UEFA rules and FIFA requirements are the issues where they will decide what decisions to make. If politics were to enter into this issue with its comments, we would also include a political dissolution of supporters in Turkey, which I don't think would be the right approach. Members of every team are in each party group, along with Beşiktaş, Fenerbahçe, Tripoli, Galatasaray, other sports-Toto Super Lig teams, each team has a fan under this roof. When it comes to team support -- when it comes to the colors in the jersey -- the parties and political stances can be put aside, so I think that not being able to interpret the issues of football and sports from a political point of view will take place among the important contributions we will make to football and sports. Very valuable MPs, on the other hand, I would also like to say that I would appreciate it if it would be taken care not to explain current developments with the political institution. In particular, the issue of curfews, see, here, as the Ministry, we have established our position as a government, it has a duty to protect the supporters of every team that goes to the state's away, to ensure their safety, to facilitate their deployment, and to ensure that they leave the field safely. So far, there is no curfew taken by the municipal boards in Turkey, but let's not take our guests away on mutual consent. If they come up with a principle, it's their own appreciation, but we -- we've expressed it every time -- we certainly don't approve, we don't approve, we don't approve, we don't approve, we don't approve. It would be unfair to Turkey and to the Turkish people, who are together at the front, who are at the military furnace, who are together at school, who are together at the mall, who are together at the exchange, who are separated as supporters of different teams in the stands, who are making it look like they're on the side of an uninterrupted feud. Turkey must be removed from such approaches. That's how I express my views, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0120	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0021par0121	Mr. President, to make a contribution based on 60...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0122	Now, according to the 60th article, there are demands for words. Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Tallırmak, I think you'll be talking about the same thing. Mr. Nazlıaka, is yours the same?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0022par0124	I'm on the same subject, yes.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0125	Now, as long as it's talked about the same subject over and over again...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0022par0126	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0127	One moment, Mr. Nazliaka. ... It goes on and on. Our normal procedure, Mr. Kuyoğlu and Mr. Longırmak, was to make promises to them, but I promise to bend my rules because you're the Ankara MP, but I mean, let's not continue this system during this meeting. Mr. Serindağ, what did you ask for?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0023par0130	Sir, I wanted to know something from Mr. Secretary, and I wanted to make a promise for him.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0131	No, you're gonna tell me, it's not clear. I can hear you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0023par0132	Okay. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0134	No, now you're going to tell me what you want to say, and in a sentence, I'm going to decide if I'm going to promise you anything.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0023par0135	Mr. President, our Minister of Youth and Sports has spoken. Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Erdogan, I've been informed by the press that Bayraktar had arranged for the removal of the 2010-2011 Championship Cup from Fenerbahçe.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0136	I get it.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0023par0137	Do our Minister know what these studies are, about this...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0138	Well, there's no way we can ask a question like that. The Minister has made his speech, there's no way he can answer you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0023par0139	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0020par0140	Now I promise you one minute in a row. Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0024par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. During his speech, the Minister referred to the audit of the clubs, the professional clubs. There's an inspection at the clubs, but there's no real independent control. Only in clubs that are subject to the Capital Market, only the Capital Market, the SEC legislation, is actually being audited, and the other audit is not a real financial audit. Especially with the Ankara Power Sports Club, if the Federation or the Ministry has a financial audit, the facts will come out, the inflated debt records will come out -- very important -- and I'm asking Mr. Secretary to do that. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0025par0147	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0026par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, first of all, there is sports genetics, even genetics, which is important to the branches. Turkish noble children have no problem with genetics, we can understand that there are around 4 million Turks living abroad, around 74 million of our citizens living in Turkey, the performance of children who have succeeded within those 4 million in international arenas and national teams. So we can't get that many kids out of 74 million, that's an important criteria. Second: Honesty should be ordinary, it shouldn't be a virtue, but no one in this country can tell me that politics is not in football or sports if it is intended to be granted permission for the President of the Football Federation. You have to make the right diagnosis, don't run away from things. If the government is indeed ruling Turkey today, it must also manage sports and take initiative here. Of course, these initiatives should be taken without contradicting the UEFA and FIFA criteria; there is no point in falling behind the milk, there is no point in blowing it, and it has to be handled directly, honestly, as a young man. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0027par0153	Mr. Nazlıaka...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0028par0155	Mr. President, I actually asked Mr. Secretary for an appointment today, but I understand that my appointment doesn't make much sense right now. The reason I asked for an appointment was actually, you know, I started a campaign for the Ankara Force, and I wanted to ask if it would be able to contribute in the effort to save a team that had been formed by employees who had produced ammunition and bullets in the Salvation War. They said they'd provide supplies, thank God. However, the transport does not return to the mill with water. I understand that he has said his sentence several times, and I would like to convey to him that I am disappointed in the sense that he is not considering any action on the way to stop the team from being destroyed. He said problems could be solved with the new financial management. In a situation like this, would a new financial management like to take over this club? I'd like to ask him a question about that, too.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0029par0156	Mr. President, my words have been distorted for a different purpose. So I'd like a short word from my position according to 60.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0027par0157	Okay. Where did Mr. Serindağ go? No. I'm going to give the Minister a say right now, so he could ask that question. Anyway, you heard, but this is Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar. He asked you to answer his remarks in the press about the fine arrangement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0030par0162	Let's just say that first. We, Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar, have already expressed our views on the statement made by our Minister of Environment and Urbanism in Tripoli. There is no fine-tuning or setting in sports, a statement he made in the electoral area, and it has been made public by himself to understand how this statement should be understood, but I understand that it is necessary to be evaluated differently from the abuse of that statement and from the fact that some of our statements today are being evaluated in a different way: it is intended to be a subject of sports politics. That's wrong. In my speech, CHP, MHP, without charging any party group, without making any claims, I pointed out the existing, well-known problems of sports in Turkey. It is always said: How true it is to raise money from national resources, national budgets, investments or other payments of ministries to professional football clubs or professional sports clubs, to transfer cash, to always argue about it, and even to reviews of it during budget times, while the government is the target, today is the result of a political approach to the demand for support of the clubs by government. No professional football club in Turkey can protect, finance, and save national resources from the state or government. The way it is, the way it is. Of course, every congressman...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0027par0165	Thank you. One and a half minutes, one for everyone, thirty for you...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0030par0167	Six minutes since four people picked on me...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0027par0168	No. Then you should've asked for a pick-me-up. After that, he'd be ranked, so I guess everyone in the Czech Law... Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the chairman of the Turkish Parliament's Foreign Affairs Commission, Volcano Bozır, received a formal visit to Albania, with the invitation of the Albanian Parliament's Foreign Relations Commission President Fatos Beja. The 2nd Law on Organising Foreign Relations of Turkey's Grand National Assembly The names the political party groups have reported to form the delegation under the clause are presented to the General Assembly's information. Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Hatay MP It has been presented to your knowledge. Mr. Sadullah Ergin, the Minister of Justice, has a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th Amendment. In the article, everyone has "private, untouchable, non-transferable, essential rights and freedoms"; 14. The article states that none of the Constitutional provisions can be interpreted to the State and to the people in a way that will enable the destruction of basic rights and freedoms, which are recognised by the Constitution, or to act in a broader way than that of the Constitution. Second of the Constitution. And 36. It depends on the creation and implementation of legal protection mechanisms by the public authority to be able to make sense of "the freedom of rights" through the case secured with its provisions. The basic principle of freedom of rights is "fair trial," which is clearly expressed in the ECHR and the ECHR decisions, as in our Constitution. These rights include the process of prosecution, defence and decision-making together; their use is determined by law, and neither of which can be restricted is constitutionally guaranteed. Given the Law on the Ministry of Justice and its duties and other tasks given by other laws, it is clear that all laws and drafts prepared by other ministries, not only in the field of investigation, prosecution and prosecution, but in accordance with the Turkish legal system and the method of lawmaking, are subject to the Ministry of Justice. Your compliance with the Turkish legal system is 90 per cent of the Constitution and the Constitution. There is no question that there is compliance with international agreements on basic rights and freedoms against the clause. As a matter of fact, the most important warnings regarding rights-seeking freedom and violations in the field of fair trial come from the ECHR, and Turkey is constantly condemned. The Constitution, however, has given the Ministry of Justice a different mandate and responsibility than other ministries of justice, given the Constitution and the "responsibility of the duties given to the Ministry of Justice and the links to the HSYK-judgement and the Ministry of Justice." Although the judiciary undermined the principle of independence, the Minister of Justice's role as head of the HSYK, the responsibility of judges and prosecutors to be in the Ministry of Justice for administrative duties, the Ministry of Justice's mandate under the supervision of justice services, has made this task and responsibility even more comprehensive by securing the Constitution. In recent years, Turkey has been dragged into chaos and chaos with violations of its right to fair trial and double standard practices. Trust in the law and the government has been undermined. The violation of the principle of innocence, the widespread arrests that turned into punishment when there should have been a measure, the long imprisonment period, the 19th guaranteeing the Constitution's "personal freedom and security." Law laws that violate the clause, laws that violate the Constitution and the laws that violate the laws of law, the laws that violate the Constitution and the laws that violate the laws, the rights and freedoms that violate the laws of law, the rights and freedoms that are violated in the judiciary, staffing, resignations and early pensions, the violations of investigation violations, the "unlawful" of this secrecy for some press and publishing bodies, the protection of third persons in violations of law/judica and state, and the fact that there are many violations of the rights and anti-terrorisms with the KHKs, the freedoms of the judiciary, the freedoms and the freedoms of the constitution, and the freedom of the rights of terrorism which must be imposed, especially on the basis of these "blood" and early pensions, and the non-responsponsories of terrorism. It has become a definition of the AKP era. The solution to the problems given at the top of the line is matters that need not to be changed by the Constitution, but by law and by practice. When the Constitution, the Agency's Law and the duties of other laws are considered together, there is no doubt that the duty and responsibility in this area belong to the Ministry of Justice. The new constitution, without the removal of chaos in the field of law and judiciary, without trust in the state, the law and the judiciary, should not be forgotten, will be the carrier of the same chaos. We respectfully present the opening of the geneor in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitution 98th and 99th and TBM Act of the Constitution on Justice Ministry and Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin, who disregards the responsibility of duty, deficiencies, failures, the basic guarantee of the democratic legal state, and the protection of judicial independence. It has been presented to your knowledge. The advisory council proposal, covering the day of the meeting on whether or not it will be taken into consideration, will later be submitted to your approval. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey Sugar Factories Inc. And depending on that, the Sugar Factorys, the Pancar Cooperatives and the Beecar Buying Centres, which are operating in various parts of Anatolia, are the institutions and businesses of our Republic, which the beet agriculture and beet sugar industry employs, creative, agriculture and animalism developers, and the very important and indispensable services of the Anatolian farmers and our people, as well as the eyes and protectors of our Republic. The fact that sugar factories are one of the sectors that creates value with supporting side sectors, especially given the size of the social benefits it provides, they will experience post-privatisation, which will greatly victimise our people who are sustaining their lives from this sector. This is the 98th of the Constitution in order to determine the problems that our people and a large part of our society will face, depending on them. Turkey's Grand National Assembly 104th of the Council of Ministers. And 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. The sugarpancar is an industrial plant where 450,000 families farm each year and tens of thousands of people work in sugar factories, 40 per cent of family labor is assessed in the fields, and in 65 districts of Turkey, 7,200 residential units are farmed. Sugarpancare is the head of products that provide the most jobs, the highest yield to farmers, agriculture and livestock, yeast and feed industry, agricultural struggle, agricultural equipment, transportation, and the highest contributing to environmental health. Hence, beet sugar is meticulously protected and supported in all countries produced. In addition to these contributions, the beets and beet sugar industry in our country creates about $3 billion a year, providing about 20 million tons of business volume per year to the transport industry and providing jobs and bread for 10 million people who directly or indirectly associate their livelihood with the sector. Unfortunately, Turkey is the only country in the world that does not support this sector. The latest developments expected to hit the beet sugar sector were the privatisation programme of Bor, Ereğli and İli Candy Factorys, whose production costs are low and profitable, and the privatisation of privatisation of the privatisation of privatisation of privatisation of privatisation of the privatisation board issued in the 6 December 2005 and 26,015 newspaper. In the case of privatisation of major industrial facilities and sectors in the region of which they are located, such profitable sugar factories, the closing of factories between 15 and 18, the increase of beets and sugar production by 40 to 50%, the decline of sectoral employment by 50 - 60%, the negative impact of local economic development and regional development, the decline of local economic development, and the loss of regional development in local investment value, the increase of urban migration from the village to the city due to the direct impact of hundreds of thousands of people, the increase in security in rural areas, and the decline of the problem of terrorism will be inevitable for you. Turkey Sugar Factories Inc.These factories, which profit from the loss of their factory, are subsidizing and profiting in total. In other words, it serves as justice, providing a social balance for all regions in keeping the treasure from being a burden. In the event of privatisation of these factories, other factories that are not on an economic scale will not be able to produce beets, farmers will be unable to produce beets, workers in factories will be out of work, locals will be out of work and without food. As a result, we will become importers of the sugar we qualify for as a country. In accordance with the facts described above, we offer the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission in order to determine and address the problems of people who have earned their bread in sugarcane agriculture and sugarcane sugar, in light of the possible developments after privatisation. [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 5) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] 14) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] 15) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Yuck!]] [[Erzurum]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, 91 per cent of cargo transport is made by vehicles known as trucks on the road. Turkey is a country that has a stage of transit between Europe and Asia and the Near East. Therefore, in providing safe and regular traffic on our country's roads, we propose and propose the establishment and establishment of a Parliamental Research Commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution on "The Troubles of Truckers and Truckers." In Turkey, 91% of cargo transport is made by trucks on the highway. There are about 400,000 trucks in our country that have the necessary documents for road transport. Trucking is inevitable, especially in countries where railways and seaways are inadequate, such as our country. It is also needed to transport trucks in the railway and shipping of the sea. So the truck is used to transport an item from the loading dock to the station and port, and the truck is needed to transport it from the loading dock to the market or user. Most of the people who move trucks have acquired a truck by pushing themselves and their family's resources, and they're doing their trucking job with a thousand rigs. At the beginning of the ordeal of this tradesman, natural conditions come, but they complain of traffic attendants who provide more road safety. But they have to do it because they have to. In recent straws, they indicate that their earnings are very low, that they are difficult to pay their debts, and as a result, they are practical. Due to their biggest complaint and fear of execution, with its load, their vehicles should be stopped at any point, and the vehicle would be connected. We face complaints and cries for help almost every day. The trucker's shop is under heavy tax burden, while a few years ago, they were taxed according to the net weights of the car, while today they are taxed on maximum weight, and there is a complaint that this is not fair. K. The issue, called the document issue, is claimed to be a loss of money in exchange for this document, as well as the release of documents K1, K2, K3, which is also a victim of the tradesman. So a truck with K3 documents for moving households has brought household goods to Antalya, and some vegetables on its way back, they're being used for criminal action. As this trucker victimized his tradesman, he will victimize the bearer of household goods. So apart from that, K, it's appropriate to have a single type of K, instead of a document. The SRC (work certificate of competence) was giving this document to the shop by training, (under the name of the Trade Vehicle Document), which was cancelled at 10:05.2006, and then the SRC documents were issued in the Ministry's language (Turkishing) and later in private courses for 450 euros. The rooms are considered appropriate to be given by him. The cantar app is a bit of a headache. It can be more than the amount of cargo that's being loaded in a place where there's no cantar. This is also an important issue of punishment. The fact that the bearer is responsible for this issue will prevent too much burden. Truck drivers are limited to 63 years old. However, there are no such restrictions on automobile drivers. It's not a fair practice either. In the name of psychotechnical practice, it's already been revealed that every five years a controlled trucker can do his job or not. Trucking is a family business. It's a common study of at least two people. Therefore, the trucker's trade should be applied to other businesses, as well as to business ease and tax reductions. The trucker buys fuel, pays taxes, collects tires, collects parts, pays taxes, and also pays income tax. In short, any professional needs he uses are subject to taxes. In this regard, the general budget contributes a substantial amount of income to the trucker's trade. What could be an incentive to a trucker's shop? It could be fuel, parts purchase, tire purchase, and the amount of cargo it carries. All of this, I'm under the impression that the trucker would improve his situation. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] 3) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mughle]] [[Kütahya]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 19) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98. And 104 of Turkey's Parliamentary Council of the National Assembly. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully present the problems of the banana manufacturer and the opening of Parliamentary Research to facilitate the necessary measures for the production of bananas. In our country today, bananas grow in very limited areas in micro-conditioning, protected by the mountains of Alanya, Gazipaşa, Anamur, Bozyaz and around Toros. The amount of production is far below capacity due to the lack of support and value required. According to agricultural data, banana efficiency is 1.6 tonnes per dean in the world. There are 5-7 tonnes of banana production under cover, 2.5-3 tonnes of efficiency in the open area. Our country has values between 4.3 and 4.4 tonnes per decarnated in the production of banana under cover and in the open area. Banana production per dean is above the world average in our country. Since protective measures are not being taken, however, banana production costs are high. Events of nature have a negative effect on the production of bananas in changes in the world's ecological balance. It is certain that our country will make great progress in the fruit market worldwide when the support and cost reduction arrangements are made for the production of bananas. In 10 years, once the necessary measures are taken, the yield will increase. The use of tissue and seedlings, given the old classic methods, has provided the banana manufacturer with great ease in production. Banana imports should be limited and Turkish producers should be supported at the point of lowering production costs. Under cover production should be spread, and banana production should be encouraged in other counties. Troubles in the sector must be seen in their place in face-to-face negotiations and resolved immediately. Our country must come to its rightful place in the world by producing bananas. For this reason, a delegation from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should assess the difficulties and difficulties of the banana production and the problems of its producer. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] 3) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 31,01,2012 Tuesday (Today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 23 January 2012, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan and his friends (431 rows), the "Diyarbakır Sur district, the Inner Castle, the bodies found in excavations around the former prison area" were offered in all aspects, and it was suggested that the Council of Assembly of Parliament's Investigation Council be held in the same day's edition of the talks and other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan (D.A.). Here you go, Mr. Tan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0031par0377	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as you know, for about twenty days now in Diyarbakir, a dig has been taking place before the eyes of all Turkey and the world. So far, the number of skulls is 23 and they're added every day. From day one, our party and our friends who have been assigned to this matter are closely monitoring these excavations, and they're trying to monitor all the procedures that need to be done under surveillance, and one of them is me. As soon as the bodies were discovered at these digs, I went to the scene to investigate in Diyarbakir, but unfortunately, only after long struggles did I get a chance to examine them by myself, after long meetings with prosecutors, police officers, but all the members of the ruling party, ministers, even the mayors of the province, have conducted their own investigations in this area without permission. Dear friends, there's no need for empty polemics in this kind of thing. There are things that need to be done. What's all this? From the very first moment, all authorities must make clear statements in the eyes of both the government and the local authorities, in the eyes of the prosecution, and start the work that will satisfy the public. So we said, "The body is gushing out from all over the country, and these digs are not bodies that have been discovered by special leave or by work on this matter." The area is much older, where the former prison, the executive administration, and even older province. This area has been transferred to the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture is doing excavations here within the framework of restoration studies, where the contractor continues to dig and work. These are the bodies that appeared in the excavations of all these restoration studies. Otherwise, we, you know, we're looking at where there's a body, where there's a report, we're digging around, we're exhuming the bodies. However, last semester, our current co-chair, Mr. Gültan Kışanak, and our friends, have several criminal complaints from this council bench, talks, verbally and verbally, attempts by the authorities. The region -- known as JITEM headquarters in Diyarbakir -- is known in the 90s as a place where people were taken from their homes, sometimes in the middle of the day, and never heard from again -- were taken away, tortured, and never seen again. Even though all of Diyarbakir and the region have voiced their cries and cries over the matter over the years, unfortunately, these bodies appear at a restoration dig. At this point, some of the friends are saying that these could be from very ancient times. Some say that this could be the result of a landslide. Some say that someone brought these bones and buried them there. Dear friends, these are, unfortunately, embarrassing statements. The problem is very clear, no matter what period it is: 1) Who do these bodies belong to? The government needs to answer that. Certainly not from 10,000 years ago. 2) If these bodies are not related to the people that 36 families are currently applying to, DNA-recognising, then where are the missing children of these families? So far, where are the relatives of my children, my son, my brother, my daughter, my wife, my husband? The Republic of Turkey has the National Intelligence Agency, military intelligence, the Office of Security Intelligence, the Undersecretary of Public Security, the State Department has intelligence. If the state can't find these missing citizens -- hundreds of them -- it's nothing but shame for the Republic of Turkey, who claims to be the heir to a state tradition of thousands of years. Where are the missing citizens? We ask two questions: 1) Who do these bones belong to, what's the occasion? 2) Where are the people who disappeared? Some of the friends are talking about the administrative courts, saying that the bodies of those executed in the Sheikh Sait incident may be the graves. It's all in the government's national intelligence records. As an MP, I still can't read, I can't study, I can't see. We ask: Where are the graves of Sheikh Sait and his friends? Where is Syed Reza's tomb? Where is the tomb of Saidi Nursi? Where are the funerals of the people of Van Naha who were killed in 33 bullets, 32 citizens -- one of whom was injured? What's interesting is that this system has an enemy of the grave, the hostility of the tomb, and the ball is thrown back into the past, like this, and there are no real perpetrators or responsible ones. Mr. Prime Minister, Dersim mentioned a riot, said it was a massacre. He's right. He said there was a massacre at Zilan. He's right. So, Prime Minister, where is Seyit Reza's grave? Where are the graves of Seyit Abdulkadir, Seyit Mohammad, Dr Fuat, Hadji Ahdi, who was executed in the court? This information is in the government archives. If these information and archives are hidden today, if they are hidden, then where is the key, after some time, after the excavations at the Incale? He fell in the water. Where's the water? The cow drank it. Where's the cow? He ran to the mountain. What happened to the mountain? The forest, burned, finished, burned to the ground- gone. We're asking for a commission to investigate the facts. Ünal Erkan, Hayri Kozakçıoğlu, who is a state of emergency in the region at this time, are the ministers of the same period Mehmet Agar and dozens of prosecutors, judges, governors, district MPs, ministers of the region, why are they not asked to return? Where are all these people? You don't know anything? What are you doing there if you don't know anything about it? With all due respect, were you selling tomatoes there? There will be so many incidents in this area, so many people will be lost, so unknown, and you will say, "I didn't see it, I didn't know it." These officers, whether they were political or elected at the time -- whether I had just counted their names as government officials -- need to be consulted by their judges, prosecutors, ministers, all of them, and beyond that, they need to be investigated and investigated. Dear friends, we've been singing all along. Some, especially those who have considered it a trick to criticize the BDP at every turn, say: "Nothing has been done about Ergenekon the Kurd. Ergenekon did not enter the east of Fırat. It is true, many times we gave motions, research proposals, and we cried out. Just today, Mr. Gültan Kışanak, our co-Chair, last week Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş cried out again, they said: "Come, let us set up a commission to investigate the facts. Let's set this up where you want it. Let's set it up from the council, set it up from all parties, and see. The government has formed the PKK. You say, "Hezbollah has formed the state." You say, "He has a connection with Ergenekon." So, where's the paperwork on these? It's not in the vault of Quan Tan. Why don't you explain it if the intelligence agencies of this state are still in the archives of a state that has hidden the deeds of Sultan Suleiman of the Law books in 1521? Why don't you release all these documents? You have the documents of the state, the murders and the gangs committed in the name of the state, the PKK, Hezbollah, whoever you have, you have the documents of them, you have them, you don't have them. All their information and documents are in the National Intelligence Agency. You present them, Turkey faces them all and they're relieved. And Turkey won't rest until they don't. As soon as possible, a commission to investigate the facts needs to be set up. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0032par0393	Thank you, Mr. Tan. The first word against the group's proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party belongs to Mr. Ramadan Can. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0033par0397	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We do not agree with the Constitutional Party for Peace and Democracy's proposal to change today's agenda for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0034par0399	That's your job. We don't go out and agree. You say, you finish in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0033par0400	Because today, on the agenda of the House, we will continue to discuss the Czech law -- the fourth article -- as of the fourth article. Hopefully, we'll make it legal. Therefore, I declare that we did not agree with BDP's group proposal, that we would vote against you, and that I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0035par0403	Thank you, Mr. Can. In favour of the group's proposal for Peace and Democracy, Istanbul MP Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0036par0407	Mr. President, we will continue to talk about this unwavering opposition to unsolved murders and casualties of the Justice and Development Party. It's really hard for me to talk about this here again. My second speech is on the subject here. I hope we don't talk again and set up a real commission here and shed light on all the unsolved murders in Turkey. This Parliament must establish that will. If this Parliament does not reveal this will, we cannot reveal peace in Turkey, the social agreement in Turkey, and we cannot reveal it. Dear friends, I'd like to start by telling you a story about a loss. On June 7, 1995, two radio figures, who identified themselves as police members, Edip Aksoy, a member of the Human Rights Association, and his friend Orhan Cingöz, took him and put him in a Toros car known as the car of death. Aksoy and Goblin were never heard from again. His daughter was only 40 days old when he lost her, and his wife was twenty-five. Only six years later, the young woman was able to hand over the petition to the republic's attorney's office that her wife had disappeared, the wife's wife, the twenty-five-year-old wife. He fought for six years so he could turn his petition over to the D.A. But we don't know where that petition is now, and we don't know what file it's in. The young woman was alone in this world with her 40-day-old baby. Her husband couldn't make a life for himself in case he ever came back, and he couldn't tell his son where his father was. He couldn't grieve or pray. Because Edip's daughter, his father, was not listed as dead, he faced many problems in the bureaucracy. It may not interest you very much, that you turn your back and you don't listen to us, but the trauma that girl suffered is well known to their relatives and we, lawyers, as human rights advocates, but your indifference remains in this House. Mehmet's brother says, "I read exactly: Every time we try to open a door, they hit us in the face. We're not criminals, we're victims. At one time, they raised and executed a child. Everybody's still talking about that kid. I think he should talk. The disappearance of Edip is a form of execution, but no one is asking. Where's Edip? What did you do to him? So, what does Edip's wife want, friends? He says: " We ask no man for money, nor any other thing, but give us the bones of Edip. Man waits every day for a near relative when he cannot find his bones. The stone can't bear it. It says Edip Aksoy, the wife of Aksoy. In Timur Sahan and Uður Balık, in his book "Abdülkadir Aygan Edip Aksoy" says that JITEM executed him, but he still has no bones. Dear friends, even if we try to cover them up, they're missing and the bones of the missing stick to us every day. On January 11, 2012, in Diyarbakir, the palace door was attached to us. These bones gushed out. We don't know what it is yet, we don't know what it is. I know it well, the distance between JITEM's headquarters and the courthouse and the office of the Attorney General was only 10 meters. The Fikri Özgen I knew very well was 70 years old, in the interrogation room of JITEM. I knew you were there. I went to the Attorney General, I went to the prosecutors, but unfortunately, I couldn't get the Attorney General to the interrogation center 10 meters away. Fikri Özgen is still missing, and Aunt Dilşah, his 75-year-old wife, is looking for his bones so we can pray, and we can't place a commission here. One day we will bring justice to our aunt Dilşah and to our other mothers and wives, to our brothers and fathers. This assembly will give you justice. We cannot say, nor can we put forth that will. Shame on all of us!
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0037par0416	Shame! That's no way to talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0036par0417	Shame on all of us!
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0037par0418	Let him take that back, Mr. President. He can't insult the House like that.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0038par0419	It does, it does.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0037par0420	He can't treat Congress like this. Shame on him, Mr. President! He doesn't know how to talk.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0421	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0037par0422	That's no way to address Congress, representatives of the nation.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0040par0423	Mr. Canikli, just a second...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0424	Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0040par0425	Mr. Godkulu, if you'd care to speak more carefully, please...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0426	Sir, I'm talking to myself.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0040par0427	I know, but be careful, please.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0428	I'm talking to myself. Instead of taking over, let's set up a commission. Let's set up this commission. Why are you offended? I'm saying all of us, and I'm saying this Congress.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0041par0429	Why don't you tell me what you're talking about, tell me what you're talking about. That's your job. You can't interfere with my will, you can't interfere with my will.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0430	If this House can't achieve justice, if it can't achieve peace, we'll all be overwhelmed.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0041par0431	You do your speech, you explain yourself, you tell me what you're talking about, that's all.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0432	Your MP says there was a landslide. Yes, there was a landslide there, but there was a landslide against the conscience of those people. If we don't set up a commission here today, we'll all stay under that landslide, especially the Justice and Development Party, and we'll all stay, you know that. That landslide has become a landslide against people's conscience, and you should know that. Dear friends, a mass grave map has recently been published in the Radical newspaper. I'm showing you, dear friends, look. Today we are going to the mass graves of the Prime Minister's Assembly. There is no political will of the Justice and Development Party in Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0041par0434	Why didn't these come out ten years ago? Why didn't he come out 15 years ago? Does this coincidence always coincide with our time?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0435	...in the will of human rights defenders, defenders, and the struggle. You have no will, no will! I want you to know that.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0041par0436	Why didn't these coincidences happen 20 years ago, not fifteen years ago, not thirty years ago? Is this just an AK PARTY period? It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0042par0437	You ask the Republican People's Party Group about this, not us.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0438	There are no unsolved murders, you say. Reports from the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey are here, don't be offended, reports here. Look, reports from the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey were submitted to the Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights last week. See these, how many perpetrators are there from 2002, how many missing, how many executions without a trial, know them and see them. So, let's make it clear, let's set up this commission here, let's announce that we're going to bring justice to the people from this House, and don't run away from it. The legislature duty in parliament is not only to make law, but to set up a research commission is also an act of legislation. You can't bring peace in Turkey, justice in Turkey, freedom in Turkey, human rights in Turkey by resisting our proposals like this.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0043par0439	That's not your suggestion.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0039par0440	Not everything is the truth you know. Move because there's a possibility that we can tell the truth. So we have four things to do, friends, four things to do. Look, on December 20, 2006, the United Nations Convention on Loss was accepted, 92 countries signed, and 30 countries approved. If you're not the government, bring in that missing persons contract, and we'll sign it here together, through the approval of this House. Why don't you bring it, why are you afraid? Yesterday in a newspaper, a Spanish professor had memories of the Spanish experience, opinions. In their view, they say that they did not go after them in Spain. Do you know why they couldn't go? Because the perpetrators were still alive. They were all on important missions, all of them, so they couldn't go after them. When they died, they went after him. Is it because of the officers among you that you don't go after them, and you don't set up a commission here? The first thing we do is sign this contract. The second thing we do is we remove the statute of limitations. The third thing we do is set up a database. Fourth thing we do is set up a commission. You won't get away with this. In the 24th term, we will set up these commissions here under the roof of this Parliament, bringing justice, peace, freedom, brotherhood to Turkey together, and each and every one of us will defend living together. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0044par0446	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. The final word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Recep, the MP of Isparta. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0045par0450	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal from the Party for Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. The CHP Speaker who just spoke in his favor here, as if everyone had to vote in favor of this research motion, be damned. Like so, we condemn his treatment of our highly valued MPs, and we extradite him. Everyone will use the game here on their own free will. We don't do this for show, like you do. At this time, we have the most power over the unknown. These excavations are being carried out during this period. Given the reports, our prosecutors, judicial and law enforcement are continuing this activity. But unfortunately, we're saying that no one deserves to do the show. Our agenda is clear today. We're going to discuss the government's pending check law today.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0046par0454	And the check is so important?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0045par0455	That's why we don't take kindly to an offer that changes the agenda.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0047par0456	The check is more important than human life, you're right!
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0045par0457	So we discussed our agenda in a way that would respond to the public's expectations.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0047par0458	Money is more important than human life! Here we go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0045par0459	I say we're against the group proposal, and I give you all my regards, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0048par0463	Mr. President, we want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0049par0464	Members of parliament, there is a request for a roll call before voting of the proposal. Now, I'm going to grant this roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Gourkulu, Mr. Öğdu, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Onur, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Akova, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Değirmedeli, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kart, Mr. Altay, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ekshi. I'd like to ask the members I've been reading their names not to enter the electronic device for roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 31.01.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 31st,01,2012 Tuesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among the Political Party Groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19th Amendment. Yours truly. On Tuesday (October 25, 2011), I propose that our parliamentary research proposal (now) be read in the General Assembly on 31,01,2012 Tuesday (now) by reading to the president of the TBMM, which we place on the basis of our country's economic, social and cultural structure, as well as on the basis of the problems that our tradesmen and artists face." The first word in favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0050par0489	Thank you. Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the Parliamentary Research Commission's motion to determine the problems our valued lawmakers and artists are experiencing and to find solutions. On behalf of my party and personally, I salute your honorable committee. Dear MPs, our tradesman and artist, are a very important part of our country in the spread of capital and prosperity, in improving revenue distribution, in the preservation of social balances. Ninety-nine percent of the businesses in our country are tradesmen and small businesses. 77% of employment is provided by the tradesman, 36 per cent of the added value created in the economy. Therefore, the problems of the tradesmen and the artists must not be considered separate from the problems of our country. Right now, our business and artist is underfunded, lacking equipment to address developed markets, unable to adapt to the changes of innovations in knowledge and technology, facing unfair competition created by the global economy, markets and Far East goods. Occupational lack of education, social security issues, high tax and social security premium issues, new standards envisioned by the European Union's law of integration, the decline of the public's buying power and the change in consumption habits, the unregistered competition of domestic migrations and unemployment, under the threat of trade and artistry, and the existence of our business and artist. The trade and artistry, the most powerful structure of socialization, communication, and enrichment of our unity after the family institution, which is the main pillar of our country, and, unfortunately, is about to collapse beyond a major change. According to Turkish Traders and Artists Confederacy, there are 2,406,000 tradesmen in our country as of January 2, 2012. According to these data, between 2005 and 2011, 1,66,000 trades closed. As we look at some of the other problems of our tradesman's main titles: A mastery certificate is required for those who are members of the shop rooms, but not for those who are registered with the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges. In order for this problem to be resolved, it must also be sought out by traders who will register in the trade record, or by order not to seek a certificate of craftsmanship from the trade and artist's record, but the correct arrangement is the search for this mastery document. Increased competition in transportation has hampered road transport. Again, there is also an unfair competition when there is an OTV discount at the mazotta on the way to the sea, while there is no OTV discount on road transport. Again, one of the major cost markers of the small tradesman is increasing electricity costs. Businesses and artistic businesses, where 3 and fewer people work, should be able to use electricity through the housing schedule. This ease will not bring a great deal of burden to the power distribution companies, but it will provide considerable ease for our tradesman. While there is a higher rate in employment than there is in other trade groups, there is a major problem with the non-representation of the Social Security Institution Board and it is unfair. The legal arrangement must be made for finding a TESK representative on the Social Security Institution's Governing Body. There should be amendments in the legislation to prevent non-responsibility, to ensure unity in the implementation, to address the difference in the same practices of occupational institutions, as well as the notars of business and artists' notebooks, to ensure that tradesmen and artists' rooms can also be verified by their units. Again, one of the major problems of our tradesman is the unfair and ruthless competition of the major stores, described as hypermarkets and crossmarkets. In European countries, hyper and supermarkets, which are carefully kept outside city centers, and shopping centers have entered between the neighborhoods of our country in just about all its provinces. In this framework, the working conditions of hypermarkets and major shopping malls must be rearranged. Again, it's been proposed by the National Party for Action. Also, the trades department, where all of our tradesmen's problems can be discussed and placed at a table, must be met at once. The Social Security Support Prim is cut by 15 per cent from tradesmen and artists who continue their activities during the retirement period. The bill, which we have submitted to the tradesmen and artists to ensure that the Social Security Support Prim does not be cut, is also held by the Plan Budget Commission. Dear lawmakers, I would like to take this opportunity to bring to your attention a few issues regarding the Czech Bill of Law, which continue to negotiate in the General Assembly, as it concerns our tradesman. Unfortunately, the checking account, which must establish equality and trust between the debtor and the debtor, lacks the principle of equality and trust. The economy, however, is largely returned with checks, future sales and contracts, and the current law requires a balanced protection of both the debtor and the debtor's rights and the law. The fact that this bill has already come to the agenda of the House shows the magnitude and magnitude of the problems that our tradesman, the business world, and the problems that our economy has experienced. For this reason, hundreds of thousands of our citizens have been threatened with imprisonment because of this Czech Law, and that has caused a great deal of anxiety. Therefore, both the rights of the debtor and the debtor must be considered in a balanced manner. Again, tradesmen and artists have been seriously affected by the shortage of demand in the market over the past few years. Two important problems arise before the tradesman and artist who need credit to overcome the negativity of demand. Since 2001, he has had a huge problem using several trades and artists' loans that have been in conflict with banks due to loans or checks and bonds. In 2003, the legal arrangement for deleting the negative financial record, called the black list in banking, was not implemented by banks. Dear lawmakers, a very important issue that concerns our trades is that Mr. Prime Minister, in April 2010, has been waiting as a dry plan for our business in Istanbul, along with 10 other ministers, for short 3D Change, Transformation and Support Strategy Action Plan. More than 90 per cent of what is promised here is expected to be fulfilled. Before the elections, the power promised to do so, but still, unfortunately, no step has been taken. The 3D issue must be carried out. That's what we're warning the government about. With these thoughts, we wish you the acceptance of our motion, and we give you all our regards.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0051par0506	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Ramazan Can is a member of the Kırıkkale MP against the National Party's Movement Group Proposal. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0052par0510	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the National Movement Party on behalf of Articles 98, Parliamentary Civil Charter 104 and 105. We don't agree with the group proposal. We know about the tradesman's problems. We're following the tradesman's problems. The AK PARTY governments have been with the tradesman. Therefore, the matuf declares that we did not agree to change the agenda, and I repeat that we will vote against it, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0053par0514	In favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam. Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0054par0517	Mr. President, I've been promised by the esteemed lawmakers that the National Movement Party has made a motion to discuss the problems of tradesmen and artists. I salute you all. It's one of the most important things to talk about. We know the problems of our friend from the Justice and Development Party, and as the Justice and Development Party, we are always with the tradesman...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0055par0519	The group proposal doesn't keep up, so we're doing it for him, so that's the only reason.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0054par0520	...short conversation, I think, is better explained what he means by underlineing something. Who's the tradesman and the artist, what's his place in society, what's his importance? I don't need to tell my deputies here in the House. However, there is a real problem with such an important social and social population, with a significant number of people working for the country's population, as well as a significant part of the country's population. We need this House to talk for hours about these problems, and I'd like to emphasize that first. Why? As a man who has spent years in this organization, who has worked as a tradesman, a manager, this organization has an ancient culture in both the Ottoman government of today's republics and Anatolian and its religious tradition, and is a very important organization that has come to date with the honor of the tradition of the state. However, the changing circumstances and the indifference of those who run the country against this region have increasingly brought the tradesman and artist into very difficult situations. See, Constitution 173 protects and protects the tradesman and artist. Okay, guys, this is my fifth year as a congressman. I've been talking on this bench over and over again about the problems of the tradesman and the artist. One of them is about the removal of the law on shopping malls and hypermarkets from this House. There's still a law that many governments have not passed before this House. Well, when we say that the Constitution's decision protects and handles this patron and artist, we can't bring down a law proposal to this parliament from this bench, and we can't, and we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't take down, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, The explanation for this is that it is clear that the tradesman's and artist's organizational powers do not have the power and efficiency of the Parliament with a legal arrangement to address the legitimate demands of their lobby, unfortunately the tradesman's and artist's problems. All of you, when you go to your countries, your constituencies, your tradesmen and artists, all of you get in taxis, all of you go to the barbers, all of you go into the restaurant, you go to the coffeehouse, put your hands on your conscience, say for God, we're living really well as tradesmen and artists right now. How many tradesmen are coming out and how many of them are going to tell you -- what's bad for us, what's bad for us, what's bad for us? I know what you're saying, I'm alive. Dear friends, put aside all political debates, but this is a section that needs to be kept alive, a section that needs to be supported, a section that needs to be given the support of the Constitution. The taxi driver, trucker, bus driver, bus driver, what we call a transportation trade, is really desperate for the rising gas prices.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0056par0524	Cabbies...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0054par0525	Cabbies, pirates on one side, other spots on the other, are in serious trouble. I'll tell you one thing about truckers, the milk I sucked came out of my mother's nose because of the pain she was inflicting where she really loaded the goods. I can't quit this job, if I quit, if I get a job for $700,500,000, I'll quit trucking. Listen to the truckers. Listen to the trouble of the shopkeeper and the artist, the grocery store. In this ten-minute period, I don't have the opportunity to account for the problems and problems of this wide range, but as a person of their own, I really do know their problems. Now it's snow, ice, cold, the storm, the greenhouses are frozen, the florists are miserable. February 14th, Valentine's Day, no flowers. Look, when I say this, I say to my friend, "Oh, my God, a florist can't find flowers, it means that the florist can't bring bread to his house in the evening. (CHEERING) Otherwise, I'm not fantasizing. The florist's got to get some goods, sell them, make some money. See, van drivers are being removed in Istanbul. It's public transportation, it can be removed. So, what are you going to put in, how are you going to replace it? They haven't made an appointment in municipalities in months. Bakers, bakers, are facing unfair competition from municipalities. Grocery stores face unfair competition of the department store. Well, isn't this all about our interests, our talking, our thinking? Really small businesses live in very difficult conditions, my friends. In today's economic and social order, the small's right of life is being taken away because technology and large business and large capital forces have achieved so much fierce competition and volume. In one region, they can create budgets of damage that could bankrupt all the businesses that exist in that region to take over the market. He says to the region that for two years I gave you a cost budget, take over that market, because his power in the world doesn't even go to the female's hole with a cost budget in one part of the city, but we have to watch the loss of the tradesmen who had to earn their bread in that region, who couldn't stand the competition. I'd like to ask you, especially from all the valued lawmakers of this Parliament, that in terms of global economy and the power of this global economy, the changing world and technology are now tradesmen, artists, SMEs, small enterprises, and that it is essential to protect and maintain, we need to transfer resources here. See, the loans currently being used by the Public Bank channel are still uncertain at this time, and it is unclear how much resources and support will be left on the source. So I'd like to say that we have very different, very important problems, that the tradesmen, as artists, expect from this Parliament because they are your brothers, your relatives, your relatives, your constituents, it is your duty and our duty to take care of them. With these feelings, I support the motion of the Nationalist Movement Party, and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0057par0533	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. The final word against the National Party of Action Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Recep, MP of Isparta. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0058par0537	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. Let me point out that we're against the group proposal from the National Movement Party. Here, when we're short, our friends complain. It's been two hours since the House opened, and today it's 20 by the previous decision. If we don't change the decision, two group proposals have been discussed, two more group proposals, and we can't go on the agenda. To talk about the agenda, to end it, we cut our conversations short.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0059par0540	That's the agenda.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0060par0541	It's not like they're the country's problems.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0058par0542	Of course, our tradesman and artist have problems, there is a power that knows the problems of the tradesman and the artist, and we have what to talk about here, and of course we have things to talk about, and we cut our conversations short just to finish the agenda. We don't agree with this motion from the National Movement Party. I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0061par0546	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0062par0547	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0061par0548	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has been rejected, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 31st,01,2012 Tuesday (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. M. Akif Hamzacebi On 16 November 2011, Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu and his friends suggested that the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be read in the same session on 31,01,2012 Tuesday, where "the necessary research is being done ahead of a possible earthquake disaster in our country, the possible measures to determine solution proposals" and other proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first word in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Mevlüt Dudu, MP of Hatay. Here you go, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0063par0564	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party for the earthquake in the province of Van. I salute you all and our great people. On October 23rd, we watched with great pain the destruction of the earthquake in Van-Edremit, November 9th. Since the first day as the Republican People's Party, we have not left the Van people alone, we have come to the point with great sensitivity. Our president went to Van three times, spent the holiday and Christmas on the day of the earthquake, and Christmas with the poor people of Van, who fought cold in tents. We're running out of deputies who didn't go to Van. They didn't spend a few days there. All of these studies have a variety of identifications that we've made. Some of the people who lived in the town of Van have emigrated, leaving the city, as well as relatives and relatives outside of the province, who are affordable. They say the Van population is down by half. All of the high buildings, 95 percent of the other buildings, are unsettled. The poor and helpless people who were forced to live in the van are struggling to live in tents under harsh winter conditions. Children who don't freeze to death from earthquakes and cold burn to death in tents. What about the people in the countryside? The damage to the villages is more severe. The winter is more intense because the altitude is higher. The villagers are trying to protect their lives and their animals with livelihoods. Thousands of animals are already being watched dead and thousands will freeze to death. Dear lawmakers, 92 per cent of Turkey's territory is in danger of earthquakes. 95 per cent of our population, 98 per cent of the major industrial centers, 92 per cent of our dams are in earthquake zones. Today, 40 per cent of the housing in our over-immigration cities, such as Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Adana, Mersin, is illegal or unregistered, 40 per cent of it is inadmissible. These values indicate that we have to live with the earthquake phenomenon in our country. Natural events, such as earthquakes, floods, and landslide, are increasing in human and economic destruction for reasons such as Ranta-based ground selection decisions, engineering-free construction production, unplanned urbanization and socioeconomic policies. 9,200 earthquakes in the last hundred and ten years have been evidence of this situation. There are earthquakes almost every day in our country. In terms of the quality of the building, the earthquakes above 5 are evident to be devastating. Given that earthquakes between 5 and 5.9 can occur every 22 days, 6-6.9 earthquakes every eight months, 7 to 7.9 earthquakes can occur on average every 40 months, the terrible size of our country's lives and property losses is evident. In earthquakes so far, experts share a common view of loss of lives and goods as being unprepared for earthquakes and rotten buildings. Neither the central government nor the local governments have fulfilled their responsibilities in this regard is a painful reality. After the big Izmit earthquake in 1999, as usual, some measures were taken while the issue was hot. The earthquake tax was at the beginning of them. Apart from paid earthquake taxes, the government soon forgot the pain and destruction of the earthquake. So, where and for what purpose were the earthquake taxes collected from the public over the years? Although the issue has been raised several times by Republican People's Party MPs over the past decade, the government has not made a logical and reliable statement about this until the Van earthquake. After the Van earthquake, the Finance Minister admitted that earthquake taxes were spent on double roads, if that's true. I'm telling the Minister of Finance and the government clearly that government governance requires seriousness. Taxes are collected by law and spent under the law. These earthquake taxes are not the Finance Minister's or the Prime Minister's personal money, and he can't spend it wherever he wants. By spending earthquake taxes elsewhere, they are responsible for the loss of lives and the death of children in tents today in the first degree. With the latest Van earthquake, the truth has once again shown itself irrefutablely. The account of lost lives is not given or given by those who run our country. So, what's next? I wonder, in what part of this country, God forbid, are people waiting for their fate and what measures are being taken? At this point, where and for what purpose did the collection of earthquake taxes come from? Why are there still tents and containers missing? Still, on February 1st, the Prime Minister said that all container needs would be met, but it's still a sad fact that a very small portion of it has been met. What have central government and local governments done and what do they intend to do so far, as a precaution for earthquakes? On our visit, the governor of Van confessed: until the earthquake, studies on the earthquake found only 1 percent of my shift. It's a confession, and I'm asking: how much of the governor's shift in other cities of our country, which is now in danger of an earthquake, is now related to earthquake studies? As it has been so far, won't the help gathered after the Van earthquake be brought to its goal? What has been done, and what is planned, so that some 400,000 immigrants can rebuild their lives? How will children who can't go to school and young people who study at the University of the Hundred Years continue their studies? How will the economy that was destroyed or destroyed with the earthquake be revived? How will people get their jobs back? The governor of Van has set up a community centre surrounded by barriers, which is said to have been distributed at midnight, completely against the law. That's what the businessmen and tradesmen told us in Van. What conscience is appropriate for them to be distributed to outsiders when they are in despair? Dear MPs, this is not a political issue, it's a human issue, and together, with its power and opposition, we all owe it to all of us to do what we can; that's what I think. I'd also like to say a few words about the flood at Hatay. Hatay, especially the Amik Plain, which is crossed by the Rebel River, is flooded every year. The Justice and Development Party has been in power for ten years. No measures were taken in this area that was flooded several times every year. Our citizens of the floods were unable to pay their debts. A lot of people are trying to get rid of their debts by taking away their land. Not a word from the government. The way to eliminate the flood is to control the water by building dams. What about Hatay's Friendship Dam, which was based on great ceremonies with Syria? What is the end of the Dam of Friendship, and why is it not finished? I say to all Hatayli citizens affected by the flood, it is our duty as Republican People's Party to follow their problem. Therefore, I'd like to ask the AKP government publicly: What will be the case of our citizens who have hijacked their planes and failed to do so because of the closing of Hatay Airport? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How will the losses of our farmers whose fields are flooded be compensated? I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0064par0583	Thank you, Mr. Dudu. The first word against the Republican People's Party group's proposal belongs to Mr. Fair Kurt. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0065par0587	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On 23 October 2011, a hundred days after the earthquake occurred in Van, and on the 100th day of the Van earthquake, we have to talk about the fact that the Van earthquake was unable to heal again today. Of course, this hundred days, as we come and go to the House, while we're doing our daily routines, it could have gone from our point of view to ours in the blink of an eye. But I don't think it's that hard to imagine that this hundred days haven't been easy for the victims living in tents who are now homeless. Dear friends, sometimes I think, are we here to torture you? It's not that I don't think we're being unfair when we bring up the agendas that are so unregistered in Turkey and talk about them here. The Czech Law, which you've all been looking forward to, will soon come to it, and you'll see and accept it, and we know that very well, and you'll approve the rest of it. But if you think that the Van earthquake, the Unsubstantiated Assembly, has no real responsibility, then we are unjust to you here, we are forced to keep you here, so, frankly, there's not much to be said to you. Van is the guinea pig city in terms of Turkey, in terms of earthquakes. I'm afraid the government has nothing to do with this guinea pig town. And I don't mean affaki, but I'm going to give you data from the report of the January 18, 2012, Office of Afet Co-ordination. As you know, some 600,000 people were damaged by the earthquake, and most of them were forced to leave Van. In the past hundred days, the government has done this: 27,598 containers have been delivered to 23.291 and 18,000 have been assigned. Nine tents were set up in the city center, and 13.488 people were placed in the tent city centers. In Erciş district, 270 homes were established and 1,205 citizens were placed in the homes of the people. So far, state-owned and state-owned institutions are the official number of states -- 35,976 were placed in the earthquake. I'm talking about 600,000 people, where 600,000 people are being victimized, write it down, how many thousands of people are standing out in the open, and you can easily account for it. Dear friends, the number of disaster victims owned by the state is not as large as the number of citizens owned by our district of Nusaybin, our province of Silopi, our province of Yükselova alone, so the state has only claimed Van's earthquake victims as much as any of our districts. Well, don't the people they took and put in these camps have problems? Look, friends, yesterday we had visitors from Aksaray, and there were earthquake victims. The government only meets the need for beds and food and drinking, and these citizens can't provide for anything other than that. Aksaray's trying to contact the governor of the earthquake, where they've been waiting for about 70 days, unable to contact the Governor of Aksaray. Let me share with you another piece of news from the agencies today. In Silifke, an earthquake victim was attacked in the middle of the day, and they were threatened to leave Silifke, to leave Silifke, and to leave Silifke. Nothing's been done about these threats. These people's children live in separate schools, being treated separately. Not only in Silifke or Akrasay. People in Istanbul have a similar problem. People in Mersin have a similar problem. People in Adana have a similar problem, and the state doesn't have any of them. From day one, we say that you have to declare Van. That's how the law rules. The fact that you didn't declare the Van (Apocalypse) a disaster zone means breaking the law. See, the Law on Disasters in 1959 has made very clear and clear provisions on which areas of disaster will be declared: (where there are more than 15,000 buildings, if more buildings have been destroyed, if they have been killed and injured in that case, the government must declare a disaster zone without delay.) This is the Law of the Law. That's how the 1999 Law rules. But the government ignored this data, thought no one would read it, and it can't be a disaster zone. According to Article 11 of the Law of Disaster, the government is currently in failure, violating the Law. Look, I'll share with you the circumstances that require that Van be a disaster zone. I have shared with you the requirements of the Law. The number of people who lost their lives in the van is 279, wounded 301. The number of buildings that have been destroyed... watch out for that number, folks. If ten buildings were to be destroyed, the government would have to declare a disaster zone. The number of buildings that were destroyed was 2,262. You can calculate how many solids it is. Then why don't you call it a disaster zone? In the past, such examples did not occur during your reign? Okay. On 26 August 2010, there was a flood in Rize. Did you or did you not declare a disaster zone? Let me share one more application with you. On July 29, 2009, a flood struck Giresun. Did you or did you not declare Giresun a disaster zone? The reason for this discrimination, this double standard, even if it's a waste of time for you, even if it's more urgent for you, is that you have to go out here and share it with the public. If you don't do this...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0066par0598	If it's a disaster zone, you can't nail it.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0065par0599	You believe him, that's not what the law says. The 11th article of the Law of Disaster says that the losses of the people who have been harmed will be paid to them immediately, regardless of the price of the track. This Law of Disaster has been established in 1959 and is a fine law.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0067par0600	The money from the flat earthquake...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0065par0601	It's the same thing in a straight line. If you ignore it...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0067par0602	They're all getting it.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0065par0603	Even if we do this, I'm saying it all. You guys are talking shit, so I'm telling you. I'm telling you because you don't understand, we're telling you the law.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0067par0604	We've lived, we've understood.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0065par0605	We understand it well, we understand it well, and we thank everyone who understands Van. The people of Turkey understood Van, but the government didn't. The people of Turkey understood Van. But the government didn't. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, our citizen in Bolu, Düzce, sent his bread and shoes there, but unfortunately, the government did not go there. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0068par0611	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the last word is Mr. Adnan Şeker. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0069par0615	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Assembly and stand before the Republican People's Party to speak in favour of the group's proposal. Very valuable MPs, of course, before that, in Hatay's case that Hatay was an important earthquake zone, a first-degree earthquake zone, we submitted a question motion for our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to answer. What are we saying here: is material, equipment, and project tracking controls being done in the cities of the region, particularly Hatay, in terms of earthquake endurance? • The general framework of today's proposal. Why? Because it may be unnecessary to repeat what everyone knows, but the earthquake doesn't kill, the building kills, and the earthquake doesn't kill, the disorder of first aid and rescue after the earthquake kills. This has happened to us in many earthquakes. Let's hope that he doesn't come back after this, of course we give these proposals and these proposals and become followers of the matter. The answer was answered at the point where it was inspected by building control companies and our ministry inspected these audit companies. Dear lawmakers, the date of the law on building control companies is 13/8/2001, the 57th government. When an earthquake struck him, he suffered what was called the disaster of the century, and the 57th government was more than a government, after this earthquake, he immediately removed this Structural Control Act in order to avoid such suffering in the future. The second question is: how many buildings have been found in Hatay and the districts that are not consistent with the conditions of building control and are not resistant to earthquakes? There is no answer. So in Hatay, our government didn't determine how many buildings would be destroyed in a violent earthquake of any 7 and above, so we understand that. Now, according to the statement of the Hatay Chamber of Architects and Engineers, at least 50 percent is being tried. Why 50%? In Hatay, in Alexander, they know our dear friends, the private government destroyed his building by his own hand. Why? Because it's not earthquake-proof. Why isn't he tough? It was made with sea sand on the terms of that day. Alexander, Hatay... it's not the fault of a government or your government. That's the way it was when he was a contractor -- 40 years, 50 years, 60 years. So there's been no work done or done to take care of them, so we can't get any answers to that question. Dear lawmakers, our third question is: have public buildings in Hatay and the districts been tested against earthquakes? (In response to this, three tenders have been made to strengthen Antioch State Hospital, Hassa State Hospital and Samandag State Hospital have been made and contract phased. He says that, and still, but still, all schools in the district of Hatay have been prepared and prepared for earthquakes. I mean, there's still no work to give a number to this day. According to the statement of Hatay and Mr. Ahmet Mete Işara, an earthquake in Hatay is also a triggering factor and will affect the area of Mersin, Adana, Gaziantep, Kilis, and become the central base of Osmaniye. On such a matter, we express that the necessary work has still not been done in such a province. In fact, we understand this from the answers to our motion to question. However, in all the districts of Hatay, we asked, are there full ambulances and ambulances for sick and disabled transport? According to the response, these were arranged by local authorities. Is it set up? Unknown. Is it done? Unknown. Actually, this piece of paper isn't on this paper; it's not in this answer we're given. I mean, it's, hopefully, in the local administrations, but there's a county that I know doesn't have an ambulance, so an ambulance goes to that county, waits three days, four days; if there's a job, it takes our patient, and if it doesn't, he can go to another county. I mean, there's such a thing as a glitch. Now, highly valued lawmakers, lawmakers; no one wants to experience the earthquake, and, of course, conscience is disturbed by the disasters caused by the earthquake. It's also not a place of mutual accusation, but there are good things that have been done in the past. The mistakes made in the past by accusing the 57th government of the good things that have been done in the past at every turn, even if it were a mistake, there is no need to repeat them in the past, but shouldn't we also express the good things that have been done? Today, people are still living in tents in Van. He doesn't live in a tent, he's burning up in a tent. Thousands, tens of thousands of people waiting in this cold, this cold. From what we've seen on TV, we've been looking at their tents, and there used to be cotton-picking workers in our Amik Plains, and it's like their work tent; it's not hot, it's burning. During the 57th Reich, 44,000 prefabricated dwellings were delivered in 75 days in what we call the disaster of the century. It's been accomplished in the past. The Japanese have come, they have travelled here, and without informing our government, any of our government's officials. This is Japan, which is the best country in the world for earthquakes. At the end of their assessment, they expressed a sentence:, "We are left with wonder." They said, "We are left with the actions of the 57th government concerning the earthquake." Well, we need to get a sample of these. Dear Parliament, we also want to express that Hatay was talking about the earthquake and that there was a disaster today in Hatay, and we say to all the farmers, let all the people of Hatay get well. Hatay's in a flood. The Amik Plain of Hatay, including the airport, is flooded. I came from the area yesterday. The Kazkelli of Bırıkhan, the Baldıran, the Baytarite of Reyhan; the Longköy, its surroundings; the Demirköpru of Antioch, its waters are sunk. Now, I think it's necessary to take precautions. At the same time, Hatay's shop is sunk. Why did it sink? The tension of relations with Syria and the end of trade with Syria. Our government had previously expressed to our people the relationship with drumming in Syria, telling the trade to flourish. Our shopkeepers have taken precautions, bought property, paid checks, and suddenly they're cut like knives, and we don't know who benefits them. Now, our farmer will sink. At the very least, in terms of this flood, the agricultural disaster zone should be declared, so that they can be paid first. The 57th government also did this. If our friends do a background check, they can see that, too. There was a flood at the time, and the 57th government declared a disaster zone, and our farmer benefited greatly. Bank loans, checks, bonds, and that's what we need to deal with, and that's the priority we need from the precious power. The earthquake, of course, is an important thing, but in today's terms, today's conditions have been the greatest disaster in the history of the day. I offer you all respect and love. I give you my regards, too.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0070par0630	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. The last word against the Republican People's Party group proposal is from Mr. Nurettin Canikli, MP of Giresun. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0071par0634	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Some of our friends here have expressed their opinion and opinion about the recent situation and the measures taken because of the Van earthquake, but I know that at least some of the information expressed is not true, and the numbers given do not reflect the truth. These had to be fixed. I took this opportunity to make a promise in this frame. Now, dear friends, first of all, look, in all earthquakes, all governments have done their best in the past. There can be no hesitation in that. So it can't be considered that all governments, those in charge, those in charge, don't complain about a disaster like this, don't show the necessary sensitivity. We don't make that assessment for any executive in the past and today and from now on. Of course, every government, within the scope of possibilities, has tried to do their best within the scope of budget resources, within the scope of resources they can allocate the potential. This has just been said about earthquakes in the state of 57. We have nothing on his side, so we accept that, or rather, the truth, and it's impossible not to accept. Everyone made every effort in good faith. Look, about the Van earthquake... of course, it's a big earthquake. Again, we offer our condolences to our brothers and sisters who died, our citizens, on this occasion. The last time the 2011 budget was closed, all of these spending pens were transferred to the Van earthquake for the remaining 2.5 quadrillion lira source. This is the first time, dear friends. It's the first time such a large, incredible resource has been assigned to such a job by a government for such a disaster, for the first time, and we believe it must be appreciated. It's worth 2.5 quadrillion liras. It also has one important feature: this was done without adding additional resources, without adding a new tax, without providing an additional financial load to any of our citizens, our nation, and so far, for the Van earthquake, the money spent to address the problems of our citizens who were damaged in the Van earthquake has exceeded $1 billion in such a short time. Now, look, if -- don't hesitate -- if this earthquake had happened at a time when climate conditions, weather conditions were available, all prefab dwellings would have been largely completed today, containers would have been completed. We don't have a resource problem, they've all gone into the tender stage, they're all being auctioned out, and as of late September or fall, all our citizens need is to be returned to their permanent homes in Van. And that will be obeyed, and that will be fulfilled, despite all the difficulties, in time, despite the pressure of the season. So...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0072par0643	What we're saying is, when? It's been four months.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0071par0644	In the fall, we said that, in the fall. So right now, if the season allows us, we have no problems with organization, we have no reservations as a will, and we have resources, Mr. Şandir, we have resources.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0072par0645	But the people are burning in the tent, Mr. Canicli!
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0071par0646	So that's the point. Look, the number of containers is now nearing 40,000, and it keeps going up, and it's going up every day. All of Turkey, all of the container manufacturers are working here right now. This is the country's capacity, all possibilities are struggling. Because if you don't have a problem paying, if you have money, it's okay to make it, but look, do you know what limits it? Turkey's production capacity. In fact, the world's production... unless, of course, it takes time to transport it, etc., if we bring it in from other countries, they've been activated, whatever there may be, all the channels are open and used. Dear friends, why was it not declared a disaster zone, and why was it not declared a disaster area just now? Look, we've explained this several times, they've been explained. I mean, it's probably not enough information, so I've just been made a comment, and look, my dear friends, you can't nail it from the moment it's declared a disaster zone, there's no settlement.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0073par0649	The government pulls nails, the citizens don't.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0071par0650	Allow me. Look, Giresun, they also stated that a region of my constituency had been declared a disaster zone and that Rize had been declared, but Van had not been declared. I know that place very well, I went there a few times, we had to go there, because our citizens had intense demands, criticisms, and they invited us there because it was declared a disaster zone, so I went there, and we went with our friends. Do you know what demands are? These places, our citizens, whose land is declared a disaster zone, demand that you remove the property of the disaster zone from here, so that this area may not become a disaster zone. These are the demands, just like this. You know why? Because they have houses, they have gardens, because they want to live there, because they don't have construction, and this is our village, where our fathers lived, and we're there... a very steep land, an incredibly slippery land -- which is why it was declared a disaster zone when we got there. Declaring a disaster zone does not provide additional possibilities, advantages. On the contrary, it completely shuts down the settlement, the construction. So now, if the proposal just came through, you're suggesting that all of Van (Vanish) and Ercish (Ezcish) be shut down, and you're defending it? You're defending it, or rather, that's the technical meaning of it, so that's what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0074par0652	What's that got to do with anything, Mr. Canicli? Not at all.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0075par0653	On the contrary, we invite you on the mission.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0071par0654	So, when the disaster zone is declared, does it have any other advantages? He has no advantage. In other words, all the possibilities you think are offered, tax debts are postponed, bank loans, whatever debts you can think of, automatically, all of them, all of the Van region, all of the businessmen who have been damaged in Van. In fact, there's a bill now, and hopefully we'll see each other in the next few days. Law 6111 has not foreseen a reason for non-paying payments due to debts laid down under the law. So there's gonna be a bill coming in to make sure that their payments are delayed, and we'll see each other next week. So in this sense, there's no advantage to my citizens, who have not been done, who have not been given, who have been given an earthquake in Van. There's no advantage, there's no advantage, there's no advantage, there's no advantage, there's no advantage, there's no advantage, there's no advantage. Therefore, when you bring advice, when you bring criticism, dear friends, it is wise to speak on purpose.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0076par0657	Mr. Canikli, those who have been sent to other cities are having trouble where they're going, please know that.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0071par0658	Look, I'm not saying anything, I'm just telling the real situation, so I'm telling the real thing. But just to criticize, can we hurt the government just politically, because of the work they're doing there -- of course, we're doing it as a duty, we're not doing it to get something from there, but can we do any damage? You're making a political request? That's the point, because it doesn't contribute to our citizens who live in Van. So, if you have any demands against them, you want to be declared a disaster zone. At this time, it means expelling our brothers and sisters from their territory, not in favor of our brothers who have been harmed by Van. The declaration of disaster zone means that our friend, who made this proposal, wants all of the people in that area to be sent to other places, where they can't be inhabited. That doesn't mean anything else. I don't know if that's his intention, but...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0076par0659	Now explain your intentions!
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0071par0660	I'm guessing, because there's not enough information, and I think it's lack of information, so I don't think it's possible that anyone would be willing to make a suggestion, such as the Van region or the declaration of Van. That would result in the expulsion or exile of hundreds of thousands of people. Look, dear friends, of course, there are problems, so we just tried to transfer them. Look, for the first time again, you know, he's been placed in a state-owned guesthouse -- I think the numbers are around 40,000 -- our citizens who were hit by the earthquake in the van. All of their children's education problems have been solved, even temporary jobs are available to them, so they also have temporary jobs in areas where they can provide for our citizens who are staying in the guesthouses, for better conditions, because they stay there temporarily, and when their permanent housing is completed, they will return to their homes, back to Van.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0076par0662	We get 50 calls a day, Mr. Canikli, 50 calls.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0071par0663	In a few sentences, we send our wishes to all our citizens who have suffered the flood of the Amik Plain. But look, dear friends, today in Hatay, construction of the Reyhanite Dam, which no government has been able to perform or tender for years. There was a tender in our era, and it will be completed in 2015. The Karachay Dam continues its construction, which will be completed in 2014. We, the Turkish side, are doing our part in the Friendship Dam with Syria. Of course, there's trouble on the other side, and you know the source of the troubles. When they're over, that side will fulfill its commitment. Also, the Woodbridge Dam and Project Depot are now valued friends in the tender stage. The construction of three of the four projects that Hatay had been waiting for for for for years, but could not be done, continues, and one is in the tender stage. I mean, okay, maybe you don't appreciate it, but at least our government deserves a thank you for its sense of resources and its ability to carry out its mission. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0077par0666	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0078par0669	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0079par0670	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0077par0671	Now let me put it to a vote. He asked for roll call, folks.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0080par0672	I'm Mr. Canikli's...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0077par0673	Okay, honey, we're not going anywhere yet. We're here. Excuse me.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0081par0674	We won't let you down, whatever you say.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0077par0675	No, I don't mean to upset them, they're on their feet, let's not keep their friends waiting like this. Don't get my hands on each other. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Akgöl, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Nedret Akova, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Topal, Mr. Öner, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Didu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Gök. I'd like to ask the members I've been reading their names not to enter the electronic device for roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Yes, Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0082par0686	Mr. President, in his speech earlier, Mr. Canikli used statements to question my intentions, accusing me of lack of knowledge, ignorance. I want to answer.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0077par0687	Actually, I'm not a lawyer, but you're gonna question each other. It's all about insults and bullying and all that stuff, so that's it. Please, don't let anyone answer me. I'd like to have a proper conversation.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0082par0691	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't have the right to answer like that. In my speech just now, I said that in May 1959, this country should be declared a disaster zone according to the Law on Disasters issued by this country's Parliament. If, from 1959 to today, Parliament has not come to realize that this law does not yield to the benefit of the people living in this country, that it is a law that actually harms people living in this country and being subjected to disaster, and only Mr. Canikli, if you've noticed that, I think you need to question 60, 40 years. Look, it's a matter of nails, it's just this kind of consolation for the Van people, nothing more. Yeah, the public won't nail it, the government will nail it, the law will give it to the government. You know very well that the ground of the van is in a state of change. If that were not so, you would not have moved your TOKI dwellings to the foot of Mount Erek, where the buildings were destroyed. You've already changed the city floor, you have to change the settlement. You don't have to do it, even if it's just another government. It is not a responsibility for any government or local government to allow it to be rebuilt in a suitable place for an earthquake. Mr. Canikli, I must remind you that even today, 40 percent of the funds from the Bank of Provinces are being cut off. It was almost three and a half months after the earthquake, and all the funds made to Van were cut off in the three and a half months. Why are these grants cut? These grants, these debts, what era were they? You say we don't want to have a political debate, but we took over the municipality with 180 trillion debts from your time. And these cuts are the cuts of that period. Put that aside, our citizens in Kusadah are calling today, and our people in Aksaray are calling today, expressing their sacrifices there. Please, take care of what you've placed in the camps. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0083par0697	Mr. President, I'm here to discuss...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0084par0698	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0083par0699	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0084par0700	Now, we start with the best, we're going in the shape of a wagon. There you go, there you go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0083par0703	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, let me first say that wise men have brought forth that Law, and we thank them. I mean, I don't know when he's out right now, and I don't remember, and it doesn't really matter.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0085par0705	We say, if you haven't read it, read it.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0083par0706	You know why? If there is no construction in a region, for technical reasons, of course, there should be no access to it, no leave of residence. I mean, what's wrong with being bound by the rules and being guaranteed by the law, dear friends? There's no mistake here, it's true. I've just given you a sample, and there are other things besides your own knowledge. Now, if the TOKI is actually building there in different places as the ground, but as soon as you announce it, including one-story houses, because you can do that when you meet its technical requirements in terms of the earthquake, even if it's an earthquake zone, as long as you follow the rules, construction rules. So the citizen won't have the opportunity to use his land, that's what we're saying, and it won't contribute at all, so it won't contribute at all to our citizens who are being hit by an earthquake. So that's the purpose of the Law being brought in; it's been applied with a very rational, logical mind, and there's no mistake here. The error is that it is wrong to pass on this Law - the act of disaster - as if it were in favor of people and to criticize the government that did not. Dear friends, here's the mistake; there's no problem in that sense. Our government is doing the right thing, and those who brought up the Law are doing the right thing, and there are no problems with it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0086par0711	Mr. Firat, why did you enter the system?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0087par0712	I'd like to explain the latest situation with the Van earthquake.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0086par0713	Today all the rules have gone, all the rules have gone, but tomorrow I will never allow them. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0087par0717	On December 21st, when we visited Van, our friends and I met with the governor of Van there. He told us that on January 15th, all the people living in the tent would be put in containers. It was about 45 days ago, but still about 30,000 of our people, our citizens, live in summer tents, their children die in the fires. I'm asking the government to finish these containers quickly, one. And one night, don't just burn the heat in your apartments, remember the drama of the people living in that tent. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0088par0720	Thank you. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0089par0723	Mr. President, thank you very much. Today, of course, we're talking about an earthquake. Now, the earthquake victim 70,000 people live in tents, and every day -- one morning -- we wake up with a tent fire, and people die. Another dimension: I've brought it up here several times -- just now the Deputy Prime Minister in charge was sitting here, and I hope he's here -- because of the earthquake in Ercish, people couldn't collect their products this year, they stayed in the field. We've performed it here several times, but the ministers in charge didn't make up for it. If the Deputy Prime Minister is here, the owners of products in Ercish, Patnos, and other counties are looking for us every day, I'd appreciate it if they were sensitive about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0090par0727	Mr Kayaturk, please.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0091par0729	Mr. President, a fellow speaker of ours has just told us that the van is being moved from his center to the foot of Mount Erek, which is not true; it's the first one. Secondly: yes, right now, our Van people are living in tents, but they are moving quickly from tents to containers. 24,000 of the next 30,000 containers have been delivered to the area and the rest are being delivered quickly. I wanted to tell you that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0092par0733	The Civil Code of the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0734	Mr. President, the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party violates Article 52 of the Civil Code. If you don't mind, sir. Now, sir, according to Article 52 of the Civil Code, a bill or proposal...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0092par0736	Mr. Young, I'll have it read first, and then we'll talk.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0737	No, don't read it because it's a bill or a proposal under Article 52 of the Civil Code, the commission's reports can't be released until 48 hours later, but the government and the principal commission must suggest it to be taken care of. The AKP group's deputy presidents are making the proposal here. If you read Article 52, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0092par0739	Okay.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0740	The Civil Code is very clear, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0092par0741	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0742	Sir?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0092par0743	Now, the sentence in this Article 52 has been generally carried out in Article 49 of the presidential terms...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0744	Mr. President, the bill and proposals are on the agenda of Article 49. That hasn't even come up yet. That's why my friends are misinterpreting it. The 52nd article is very clear, sir, that within 48 hours it should be brought up and placed in the first place, the commission and the government would not be required, the group's deputy president.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0092par0745	That's the way it's always been done, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0746	In my opinion, friends misremember that the 49th article is on the agenda, in case the President needs to prioritize things in the 8th verse, but not 48 hours here, not on the agenda. On the 8th bench...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0092par0747	I get it.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0748	In that case, Mr. President, I don't think you should read it today, let them bring it to tomorrow, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0094par0749	Mr. President, until today...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0750	There's no such thing until today.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0094par0751	...all under Article 49, including the amendments to the Civil Code, as you just said...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0752	This hasn't entered the 49th article yet.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0094par0753	...has been brought to life and implemented.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0093par0754	No, no.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0094par0755	There are no exceptions to this day, and under Article 49, it must be processed in the same way as it has been so far, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0095par0756	Yes, there is a discussion on the group proposal in favour of the discussion of procedural action. The alleged issue can also be assessed in this interview. Now I'm going to read the group proposal...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0096par0758	Mr. President, before you have to read it...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0095par0759	Sir...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0097par0760	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0095par0761	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0097par0762	Now Mr. Kamer has expressed a young opinion. In his statement, Mr. Canikli did not comment on any articles of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0098par0763	I'm saying it clearly according to Article 49.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0097par0764	Now, the relevant clause is very clear, and within 48 hours, any text passed through the commissions cannot be discussed in the General Assembly. In order to meet, the main commission or the government must ask the General Assembly on grounds. Now, in return, Mr. Canikli has made a statement not to explain the legal grounds of this clause, but to the contrary, it has been applied thus far.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0098par0765	Let me explain, Mr. President, if you like.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0097par0766	So there's no precedent for bad precedent.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0098par0767	No, it's not bad.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0097par0768	Wrong app.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit01spe0099par0769	I'll take a ten-minute break from the merger. Mr. Group, I'd like to invite the vice presidents to the rear.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0099par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 58th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/21 My Original Law Proposal is not in the Commission in 45 days, so the Civil Charter is 37. In accordance with the terms of the matter, I respectfully submit to the need to be brought up directly. 24.11.2011 Offered by Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0100par0012	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise on the law proposal that the tax on VAT and OTV in motor vehicles used by the cabbie shop will be lifted. I salute you all. Dear friends, before him... yesterday I was in Kars, and went to Ardahan. In Ardahan, the food plants are still unpaid, the snow and winter apocalypse, people are miserable, unable to feed their animals. I'm asking the government or the ministers to pay for these bait plants immediately. Second: they've invested their debts in banks, they'll renew their loans, they can't get credit, citizen. So now, they're going to get bait, they're going to get loans for five, 10 grand to spring their animal. I really beg you to open those banks and let our citizens have these loans. Third: Now, in East Anatolia, you know there is no industry, and the small tradesman is very few. Mr. Nihat Ergün of the workshops there said: I give loans, I send loans, I send loans to KOSGEB, I send them. I guess he sent them, but they don't use them from banks. I'm just making sure this goes on the record. I beg you, let the money for this KOSGEB be paid to the owners of the workshop there immediately, the needy. Dear friends, the fate of taxi drivers and chiefs is one. The taxi drivers are also interested in people from birth to death, and they are interested in people from birth to death, and indeed, now, when you look at the problems of taxi drivers today, there are about 100,000 taxi drivers, none of them have insurance, so there's no social security; plus, taxi drivers have no security. Now, they want a split cab. Turkey couldn't do it, couldn't do it. You know, they're gassing cabbies. Most importantly, taxi drivers pay a lot of money as tax dollars for motor vehicles, VATs and EVS in the vehicles they bought for themselves. What is this? Now, a 40,000-dollar car is paid for at least 18,000 lira, $22,000 VAT and OTV, which is 55 percent tax. At least, I mean, I'm not saying anything to the other cars, so the taxes on this taxi driver's shop should be lifted. I mean, these are already people with income taxes. Make sure he doesn't pay for his certificate when he gets it. In fact, when he uses it in his taxi, he buys high levels of OTV and VAT, gas, gas, gas, and pays them SVV and VAT. At least when the cabbie renovates his tradesmen, when he buys a new car, don't let him pay for this OTV and VAT, guys.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0101par0018	You didn't say no to the pirate, you didn't say no to the pirate.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0100par0019	Oh, there's even a pirate. Thank God my brother Mevlüt reminded me. This pirate thing is a problem for all of us. Believe me, I took a taxi in Istanbul, and the man said: "My same license plate, the same car was seized by the police, but the man came out of nowhere again. So this pirate must be completely blocked. Here it falls to the government. I beg my ministers to take precautions. We don't have much time left, I just told you, the chiefs' problems, so I think they're like taxi drivers. Now, my dear friends, we have received a payment from this General Assembly with the law proposal we gave to the chiefs. Currently, the owners receive about $370, and they pay around $380 BUG-KUR, so they put $10 on it. Dear friends, I mean, we're the Grand National Assembly. We have close to 54,000 chiefs in Turkey. The Mukhtar represents the President, represents everything in the village. Maybe he's getting paid for the paperwork he's making in major cities, and he's making a profit, but in the east and southeastern parts of the country, the mayors don't get paid, he's a mess. So I think the chiefs should at least be covered in social security, pay the government's premiums or pay minimum wage. The law requests the acceptance of my offer, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0102par0024	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. As a member of parliament, İstanbul MP Kadir Öğüt. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0103par0028	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, one of the most important intellectuals that Turkey has raised in the first place, is today the anniversary of the murder of our teacher Muammar Aksoy, founder of ADD. I wanted to remember him from this stand. I'd like to say once again that we bow before his memory. In Turkey, indeed, when we passed before our eyes, the most important, the most contributing intellectuals to Turkey were brutally slaughtered. Unfortunately, the perpetrators of these massacres were not found in any way. I want to reminisce about the real perpetrators here. I pay my respects to all of our intellectuals again, and to remember them with mercy. My dear friends, our friend has just spoken, especially in Istanbul and Ankara, there is serious speculation on the pirate taxi. Part of this speculation is due to economic reasons, and part of it is because the security forces aren't focused enough. Your ruling party, which has been in power for ten years, has never found a solution to this problem, but the taxi driver's business -- our prime minister has promised -- no, Korsana. It's become very interesting that he's equipped everything with duct tape. I would really like to re-integrate the lack of resolution of a government that's been in power in the main city for 16 years and has been in power for nine years. My dear friends, today is a very important day. Today, you know the importance of Haydarpaşa Station for Turkey and Istanbul. Today is the last day of the step-by-step shutdown of the Haydarpaşa Station. The last train leaves tonight at 10:30. Starting today, Haydarpaşa Station will be completely removed from its function and heading towards its new function. The organised operation ended on 26 November 2011, when the Istanbul Metropolitan Assembly decided to turn the station into a hotel by AKP members. Haydarpaşa and its environment, station, port, backfield, Kadıköy Square and surrounding area were included in the plan. Deputies are closed under the name of maintenance between Köseköy-Haydarpaşa Station, where 15,000 citizens are taking advantage of each day. Against the railway, which is the most economic and secure way of our fellow students, workers, civil servants and poor citizens, the power is unfortunately an alternative to the land road. The road transport has already been blocked, making the E-5 (TEM) road even more insurmountable, negligible for passenger safety. All scientific research has shown that railway transport is the most reliable transport at an earthquake. Istanbul's artery, which is at risk of a major earthquake, is being cut off, leaving both passengers and logistics transport on its way to land. We can see what the road to land is by looking at Istanbul in the first snow yesterday. The 817,000 square meters of the area will be divided into construction. The last remaining green area of Istanbul will become a busy building, becoming a hotel and trading centre. The government, which repeatedly said it had held our historical values, would give the roof repair of Haydarpaşa Station to a company that had no experience in its work, nearly destroying a hundred and twenty-year-old historical building. Since the building's fire safety was not secured, the wood and concrete parts of the historic building have been severely damaged by saltwater. My dear friends, we say that we are not opposed to this healing. We do not want about 20,000 workers and students on their way to Gebze and Kopeeli, a suburb of Istanbul, to be deprived of safe and cheap transportation. In all the metropolitan areas of the world, in Paris, as in New York, large stations that work actively make up the memory of that city. At the time of the earthquake, the easiest and most reliable railroad is eliminated. Citizens who travel to the most remote parts of Anatolia are allowed to travel cheap and reliable, and our citizens are condemned to an unsafe and expensive journey to land. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Like all around Istanbul, some have an appetite for loot and loot. You're trying to disrupt this area, just as you've corrupted all of Istanbul's skylines. As Istanbulers, we won't allow it. Yours truly. (Cheers and applause) (CHP rows)
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0104par0040	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal questions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Mr Sinan Aydın Aygün, Ankara MP Sinan Aydın Aygün, who is ranked in the 1st ranked Czech Law and Minister Ali Riza Özturk, as well as Mr. Ali Riza Özturk. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Last time, there was a first talk for individuals on the 4th Amendment. Now, it's time for the second person to say the following on behalf of Mr. Ramadan Can. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0105par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Czech Bill of 137 rows, I would like to express my opinion on behalf of myself. First of all, what's a check? In terms of valuable documents issued in the Trade Law, the Czech Act was counted as part of the Trade Act as a policy, a contract, a bond, and a check. The check is a non-responsive loan agreement. What do you mean, unconditionally a contract? So in this way, from these documents, which are made out of Cambio bonds and valuable documents, the policy and the order of the combat bond, otherwise referred to as, the bond has been separated from the cheap bonds of the community in terms of the follow-up process. Now, these have shape conditions. If they're in good shape, they can't be disputed when they're being traced. On the other hand, when there is no appeal during the five-day watch, the pursuit is finalised and the warrant takes its form. That's what you mean by an unregistered debt statement. And there's no time in a check in the application, but in Turkish law, there's a future check in what we call a postal check in terms of the Trade Law. The due check application carries a large portion of the checks in our legal system, the vast majority of the kahir. This is an important need for the creation of an unknown source. He found an important place in our legal system to apply a postal check and was protected. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have the privilege of checking the bonds with other bonds, we've explained their privilege, and there's a downside. What's the downside? There's a notice period in the check. If you do not submit the check to the bank during this notice period, if you do not submit the check to the bank, on the other hand, if you do not execute the check within the six-month statute of limitations, or in the current application -- we will remove it -- due to the complaint in Law 5941 and Law 3167, when you do not complain when you have failed to comply. What happens when you lose your checkbook? In the legal term, the beginning of written evidence, the written proof. Therefore, he must apply for receipts and circumstantial evidence to prove that he will receive re-investors. That's one of the disadvantages of the check. If we can get a fair majority here as the Justice Commission, we'll make the statute of limitations in the check in accordance with the policy and the statute of limitations in the war. Of course, the statute of limitations on the check is set apart from the policy. You know the statute of limitations on policy and order, or bond, three years, and in ciranta, it's down to a year. Since the timeout in the check is six months old, there is a downside to the check listed among the Cambio bonds. Hopefully, we'll get this through the opposition party with the support of members of the Justice Commission. Mr. President, the valued MPs, the check, you know, is a document that contains formal elements. If one of the shape conditions is missing, it's losing its checkbook quality. In that sense, check holders, check holders, have to be discreet; they should not only address the punishment when guaranteeing what they will receive. On the other hand, we think they should consider making sure that they get side-by-side evidence -- like mortgages and hostages. If we look at the date of the check, in terms of criminal law, before Law 3167 came into effect in 1985, the check did not provide a free sentence. And what was being done? If he had elements, he would be punished for fraud if he was carrying the elements of crime in terms of the general principles of criminal law. If he was ill-inflicted by an unrequited check, if he was involved in fraud, if he was involved with the elements of the crime, he was punished in this way. In 1985, Law 3167 was adopted. Law number 3167 stipulates a prison sentence of up to one year and five years on the complaint of those who have received a bad check, or, in fact, a bad check. This did not meet the need, and even though there were a lot of changes by 2009, the main issue was the roof. In 2009, Law 5941 entered into force, where a fine was fined, rather than fined a person who directly misfired a check. When a criminal fine was prescribed, the person who did not pay the fine for the fine was also facing a binding punishment for freedom. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0106par0063	Thank you, Mr. Can. Moving on to QA. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0107par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much money has been collected from the criminal fine pen to the state's vault since March 7, 2003, when the criminal fine was imposed on unpaid checks? How much of this money was used for check victims? What is the opinion of your government that this money should be transferred to a fund from now on? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0108par0069	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0109par0070	Thank you, dear President. I'll pick up where our friend left off. Isn't forensic fine an unprovoked enrichment of the state's treasury, the money that comes out of a citizen's pocket, in exchange for a check for his property, even though the state didn't do any damage here? Do you intend to return this because it's an unprovoked enrichment? The following: We both have new national education directors assigned to the province of Konliurfa, but the appointed ones do not want to go arbitraryly, even if they do not press charges. Are these people someone knows, people you can't hurt? Can you clarify that for me? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0110par0074	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0111par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. How much money has been raised by Mr. Light from the fine? A question was submitted in the form of Mr. Light. But our friends have told me that they haven't been able to do such an account so far; they don't have that kind of information, they don't have a statistic.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0112par0077	We asked him last week, he was supposed to be ready for today.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0111par0078	Let's hope our friends work him out again, but as of now, unfortunately, we're in no position to respond. There's probably something wrong with collecting these, these amounts, these small amounts, because it's distributed to a lot of units, and hopefully they'll work on it.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0113par0079	A lot of money, Mr. Secretary, a lot of money. Don't transfer it to Allah, transfer it to the bureaucrats.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0111par0080	I mean, in terms of disarray, it's a mess for different units. They asked a question, Mr. Tanal, would the fine result in enrichment without cause? I mean, like this...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0114par0082	I got that right, didn't I?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0115par0083	Exactly.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0114par0084	Okay.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0116par0085	Well, now that a person pays off his debt, he'll pay off his debt to the government instead of paying off the government, which is going to be in the new system, so in a sense, the government won't be in the middle of it. The money will be made available to the original borrower. In the current case, he's actually paying legal fines, which cannot be paid, and he's paying off his debt to the person he owes. In the new system, he'll just pay off his debt. So if you look at it financially, there's going to be a loss of state, but if you look at it in terms of interpersonal relations, I think it's going to be a more justified situation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0114par0087	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0117par0088	Thank you, Mr. President, for having time... Mr. Secretary, either I couldn't explain the question or the Minister didn't understand, but when the Czech Law of 5941 was fined, the citizen was leaving, he was paying the check price, he was getting fined, so the Treasury, the government, didn't give it to the check holder. That's my question. Isn't that an unfair gain, unprovoked enrichment? Do you intend to pay the check holder because it's unfair gain, unprovoked enrichment?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0114par0090	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0118par0091	Mr. President, that's exactly what our Congressman is saying right now, the verdict is being changed. There is no such thing in the new arrangement after this.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0119par0092	What about the savings, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0118par0093	But in the current system, a prison sentence is not a punishment for failing to pay off its debt. He was facing a prison sentence because he didn't do the fine, because he didn't do it, which is what he is now, the unchanging one. Now, therefore, it would not be possible for him to be turned into an administrative fine at the moment, so his imprisonment was a prison sentence, not because he didn't pay his check, but because he didn't do the fine. Now that he's been turned into an administrative fine, the problem will have been self-destructive.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0120par0094	It's not a refund.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0118par0095	That's out of the question right now.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0120par0096	Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0121par0097	I'll ask you one, and I'll pick up where Mr. Tanal left off. There's a new arrangement, Mr. Secretary, but there's a lot of money in the old arrangement taken in that sense. If the new arrangement finds this old money collection pointless or finds it fair, whatever it is, you take it back. So, you'll give the old money back to its owners, the ones that have been collected so far? That's the kind of money I paid, that's why I'm asking.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0120par0098	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0122par0099	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, the answer to this question must be answered, we insist on asking it, and we asked it last week. The criminal fine you put on yourself, which is the government's law, has bent the nation's backs, and he's in jail for not being able to pay. Now, with the money collected or the law you're going to make, do you bring anything to those who are being punished? Are you going to return those federal fines? Yesterday was wrong, today was wrong, Mr. Secretary, please answer that. Twice, we've seen each other last week, we're asking, and now we're asking, but there's no answer. Please...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0120par0101	Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0123par0102	Sir, thank you. Mr. Minister never answered my question about national education, so the Minister of National Education is sitting in front of us, so at least let them learn from the Minister of National Education. I mean, why doesn't the two National Education Directors, who were assigned to Iconia, and Şanlıurfa, go when their appointments are out, even though they haven't filed a lawsuit? Why is that? So these are very powerful, powerful people? Why is this favor being performed? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0124par0105	Mr. Secretary, you have exactly two and a half minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0125par0106	Well, thank you. Now, of course, there's no arrangement for extradition to those who have been sentenced to criminal fines. Over here in our system, you can think about different punishments as well as traffic tickets before. They can make the administration's operation impossible. Not that it makes much sense to use the word "madurdur" here. We're talking about a check, a check that didn't go through. We're talking about an administrative fine, a criminal fine, a prison sentence as a crime. Right now, we're taking out that prison, so we're actually making a change in favor. And we're bringing in an arrangement that will make sure that this doesn't happen again, but in the sense you're talking about, there's no way we're going to make any sort of refunds. You may wish it, but there is no arrangement here. On the other hand, if our Minister of the Ministry of National Education wishes to ask the question... it is in no way an arbitrary exercise can be considered, but it is a specific matter. If the Minister wishes to respond in writing, he can inform our deputy in writing. Not my position, of course.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0126par0109	Because it's not about the law. Now, Mr. Ayhan, you have 50 seconds, which can't be answered, but ask your question.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0127par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, why haven't these citizens been able to pay the checks? I wonder if the government has any research. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0128par0114	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0129par0115	There's not a single reason that these things happen for a lot of reasons, but on the other hand, we have to consider that there's been a global crisis, and there may have been some problems, but...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0127par0116	Is it because of America?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0129par0117	When there's no crisis, there's always something that happens when the checks don't bounce. There's no way he's connected to a single cause, of course, there's a whole range of reasons.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0130par0118	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0131par0119	Mr. President, the Minister says it's not my area of duty. Let all ministers sit down, and we'll address our questions accordingly.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0132par0120	Mr. President, how long will this obstruction last? I mean, do you want the Czech Law or not, for God's sake?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0130par0121	Mr. Tanal, just a moment... Now, look, we've walked by a pretty good system in time for you to ask questions, but the ministers who sit here normally answer questions about matters of law.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0133par0123	But he can answer, too.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0130par0124	You asked the Minister of National Education a question, and the Minister said, "I don't know him." There's nothing we can do from that angle.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0133par0125	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0130par0126	I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 7 of Article 7 of Law No. 5-5941 has been changed from three hundred Turkish liras to three thousand Turkish liras by the state's attorney's office in prison for up to one year. On the fifth article, Antalya MP Gürkut Acar on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0134par0132	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 5 of the bill, which stipulates amendments to Czech Law 137. I salute you. Before I begin my words, Professor Muammar Aksoy, our fellow professor, from Antalya Akseki, from Abraham, is remembered with gratitude and gratitude in the 22nd year of the unsolved murder of Dr. Muammar Aksoy. My dear friends, the Czech Law has come to us again after long discussions, long sacrifices. This shows that when I make a law, what I say is the whistle that I blow. If you say, every two or three years you have to change the law, the Czech Law is an example. Today, the Czech Law was also available in 2009, and today there are also reasons for the discussion of the Czech Law. If the opposition had heard its views, if a common mind had come up with a solution, today the issue would not have been raised, people would not have suffered harm, courts would not have been blocked, and those who were victims of a check themselves would not have appeared. My dear friends, according to information from Mr. Minister of Justice, 1,340 people from the Czech Law are currently in prison, 1,457 people from the Law Act 5941. The number of files currently present in the Supreme Court is 217,165 and low-level, with around 400,000 files reported in first-degree courts. My dear friends, the fact that these checks are so unrequited has caused us some concern as to whether the economy is doing well in Turkey. The only way to make sure that the check doesn't come to a deposit like this is to make it a solid payment tool, to increase the responsibility of the banks. Dear lawmakers, the bill that was brought up today will clear up some of the victims, but it won't provide a complete solution. So I prepared a bill on this check, and I submitted it to the chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and there was no way to combine it with the government's bill and other proposals, but (2/291) is waiting at the Justice Commission with its original number. The basis of my proposal is: First, the responsibility of the banks related to the check will be increased. Banks should make their study of those who want to open a check account healthier, not open a check account to those who have doubts about the power to pay. The banks will make a check deal or a loan agreement with the people they will open a check account with, a check with which the amount is written in mathbu, up to the limit set under this agreement. The banks will be obliged to pay the registered checks regardless of whether or not there is a response. The banks will collect the checks they've paid from the checking account holder legally in accordance with their agreements. In such a system, there will be no non-referencing concepts of checks, no credit cards, no bank purchases, no credit cards, no free credit cards, they will apply the same system in checks. The banks won't give a check to people who have doubts about the ability to pay, who can't afford credit. That's the solution. Mr. President, when it comes to the 5th Amendment, what is the ninth joke in Article 7 of Law 5941? The person who arranges a check without using the bearer's checkbook leaves will be sentenced to up to a year in prison for each check that includes this discrepancy. (The new provision foreseen will remove a year's prison sentence, without using the bearer's checkbook, and will be fined by the republic's prosecutors for up to 3,000 Turkish liras. I mean, there's an adjustment, and there's a release of the prison sentence, but if this administrative fine is enough to prevent the execution of this verb, it should be questioned well. This verb is not about the check being bounced. I looked at the grounds of Law 5941, and why such an arrangement was needed. It says there: "Pregnant checks can only be arranged by using the bearer's checkbook leaves. In addition to the different features of other checks, the bearer will be included in the cheque leaves as a lettermate matbu. • A crime definition was given in the ninth joke in order to prevent the informal economy and ensure the practicality of this verdict, which is considered to be intended to fight corruption. If it is not a check bearer, write it down on whom it is given. It is called. This verdict is on the agenda for the implementation of the bearer's check system and for the prevention of non-region. So this has nothing to do with the concept of an unrewarded check. If you want to fight the off-the-book economy, I really think it's useful to connect the amount of sanctions to the amount of check, so in a $50,000, $100,000 transaction, maybe this could be considered an sanction worth 3,000 lira. The punishment doesn't seem deterrent, I think it should be well spent. Dear lawmakers, if there is a final solution to the check, as I said, we have to make the check a reliable payment tool. Here, banks must be increased in responsibility, if a system of cheque deals is established, the concept of pro bono checks will be eliminated, courts will be reduced to workloads, and freedom will be avoided due to debt in accordance with international contracts. I don't think it'll be possible to come up with a permanent solution unless this is done. The concept of unrequited checks is a strong possibility, or the check will not be trusted, nor will it be possible to use it, which can create new problems in trade. However, we, the Republican People's Party, support this new bill as a new quality in compliance with the European Human Rights provisions, and we will vote positively. My dear friends, I would like to finally say, especially as a 39-year-old lawyer, the prosecution of the Lighthouse case has left us worried, and this development has created great reservations and concerns for every judge and prosecutor in Turkey. We wish the ruling party would give up this practice as soon as possible. In addition, my dear friends, we believe that this amount should be lowered by 10 per cent of these dams, reduced to 5 per thousand, while there is time for collective agreements for those of the unions who are ten per cent organised in the line of work. In Turkey, democracy won't work if we stop unionisation. Without labor unions, there can be no democratic regime brought to a society where workers can't be organized. Therefore, we believe that the number of union workers down from 3 million to 700,000 is very low in the face of an 8 million registered employees with social insurance. If we want a modern and civilized democracy, I demand that this obstacle be removed from the unions, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0135par0147	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0136par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have two important questions: Number one: It's important that the judicial fine is now closed, so the way to prison is closed, but you know very well that most of these people may not be able to get credit when 90 percent of them, 95 percent of them, have bad records when they get out or when they get out of prison. Now, can we grant them a record pardon and allow these people to pay off their debts? Second, did your government ever do any research on how much money Factoring companies and loan sharks have made because of this bad check? How many factory companies are operating in this area? What measures have you taken, or are you planning to take? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0137par0155	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0138par0156	Thank you. I believe there's a motion for a record pardon, Mr. Light, and our other valued deputies. So when that motion is voted, of course, it's in our House's discretion, but we have an experience in general that the pardons of record don't have exactly the desired results in the market. We know from our past experience that even though there have been a number of pardons in the past, certain financial institutions know about these issues or the issues, in the end, although you forgive them, they are not very effective in practice. Other than that, I think it might be helpful to know that there's no abuse of information, that checks can be used in the new system in a more healthy environment, and that there's also a record of pasts. On the other hand, the criminal records are already automatically deleted when it's not a crime. There's no problem there, but according to the information your friends have given me, there's no problem in the legal sense. On the other hand, these factoring companies say there are 76 factoring companies, friends, but your question is more about statistics. Our friends don't have that number right now. And if there is, they will then convey it to you in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0139par0161	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0140par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. This bill was a statement from the Deputy Prime Minister before he came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, stating that 100,000 people could go to prison if the bill was not legalised. That's pretty much it in prison, a little more than that. Is this bill prepared because these prisons won't take in the new ones? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0141par0165	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0142par0166	Thank you. Of course, given the statistics, there are a lot of cases. As of 2010, there are 405,704 cases, a very large number. The Supreme Court still has 53,544 cases in the apartments, 163,221 cases in the state's attorney's office, totaling 217,165. The number of convicts is really low, 1,457, but if you look at the number of files in the Supreme Court, it also shows that the number will go much, much higher, so there are very serious consequences if no measures are taken. Of course, this law, like so many other laws, has many goals, many motives. The question our Congressman asked, although he did ask about the size of the other second dimension, the size of the files. This is, of course, a conclusion; it's not possible to put it that way. The Law has various purposes, as well as motives. But one result, of course, is that the number of these files is reduced, the charge is reduced. Thus, the faster, more comfortable working opportunities for the justice system can only be expressed as one of these consequences. But I don't think it's right to put it in the form of a single purpose. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0143par0170	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0144par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, of course, the pro bono expenditures with this check, I believe, were going into the informal domestic. So, have you ever calculated that? For example, in our export-import records, there's never been any imaginary exports or any of those imports that weren't billed, these are all against the country. But in the numbers, you give the imaginary exports before they fall, because Turkey exported so much. It turns out, last year, the year before, the year before that, imaginary exports are coming out, but it seems to be in the export numbers again, thank God! Now, these pro bono checks look like they're in the GDP. Have you ever looked at what the ratio of this is, economically? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0145par0175	Let me answer the question of our esteemed Regent...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0146par0176	Just a minute, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0147par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. The economic aspect of the bill has never been examined, I submit. Why is that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0148par0181	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0149par0182	Now, when we look at it, it's a multinational income, so take it for granted.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0150par0183	Mr. Secretary, don't say national income, don't say national income.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0149par0184	In 2008, the percentage of disposable cheques in GDP was 1.4; in 2009, 1.64; since then, it has gradually dropped, and in 2011, it landed below 0.68, or 1 percent, and it has actually declined considerably. Of course, the cost of total goods and services produced within the country within a year is being considered as an illegitimate domestic product.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0150par0186	Does it involve consumption and production?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0149par0187	Whether that price, you know, is in the payment system, or if it's in the legal system, doesn't change the total amount of assets, the value of goods and services. It could affect their debt-relationships, their disagreements. In that sense, national income...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0150par0188	It's being processed. That's the national income...
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0149par0189	Yeah, we can't say it changed national income. Mr. Ayhan said it didn't have to be economic size, but if he opened it a little bit more, I couldn't actually do the exact question. So maybe we should get some more details.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0151par0191	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0152par0192	Thank you. Mr. President, in my question, there's nothing the Minister wouldn't understand, plain and simple. There's also an economic aspect to this bill, beyond the legal side. You can't pay that many checks. There's a sum of it, and there's a price on the market. Why did we do this without calculating the economic ramifications of this? We understand that even the fact that this bill does not come to the Plan and Budget Commission, plus the Commission for Industry and Trade, makes it very clear and clear that it is not studied financially enough. I wanted to express it. If the Minister wants more explanations, I'll continue. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0153par0195	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0154par0196	I mean, there's nothing weird about it. You asked me very briefly, and I asked you if you'd opened it, I'd understand better, and I'd get a better answer.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0152par0197	The government says the reasons are too short.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0154par0198	Now, there have been extensive assessments of what our Congressman is talking about. In terms of the economic impact of the work, the Economic Co-ordination Board has discussed the issue over and over again. Our business world has been discussed with different sides. What it would bring, what it would take, what it would take, the economic impacts have been analyzed in a very detailed way, and it has been adopted as a government and sent to our Parliament's discretion, assuming that there will be no harm done to our economic progress. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0155par0200	There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: To the presidency of TBM, It's the 5th Amendment of the 137 Sequence Numbered Bill. The article states that the following jokes should be added and that the material framework should be edited accordingly. The records of those whose records have been corrupted due to the Czech account have been cleared without the need of any action as of the law's official date. If the check is not in the account, the check will be paid within the credit limit of the bank account, firstly if the account holder has its credit account. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0156par0206	We disagree. But I'd like to make a brief statement, Mr. President. According to Article 11 of the Criminal Records Act, when action is no longer a crime, the criminal record and archive records will be automatically deleted without any demand. We are opposed to this provision. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0157par0209	Government?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0158par0210	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0157par0211	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0159par0212	Ali Longırmak.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0157par0213	Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0160par0214	Mr. President, thank you very much. Today we are discussing a law that really concerns a lot of people in Turkey. Dear friends, when God surprised your servant, he made the lady say "I'm sorry." It's not clear what this government is really doing. Look who is in power in Turkey in the 3rd month of 2003. Today's government is in power. That day, in this Parliament, we spend these hours, spending the day, spending the minutes, passing the law, nine years pass, and today we're changing in another direction. So, why was it done yesterday, why is it done today? Therefore, today's government is making another mistake, and why, of course, is it making those mistakes, government? Because he wants to do what he wants to do and what he does is different, and what he does is different with purpose, and he can't explain his purpose correctly, so he's trying to save the day with such little things. That's where the mistakes come from. These mistakes are being committed because of what he did, what he wanted to do, what he had to do, what he had to do was different. In nine years, you'll see, many laws have changed and been made the same way. Well, it's very easy to criticize the state's 30 years, 40 years, 80 years, and every day another agenda is created. Look, in fact, if we can't categorize or describe the victims of the loss of the check, who can't pay, who can't pay, who can't pay, who can't, who can't, who can't, who can't pay, who can't? I asked Mr. Secretary at the last meeting, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, and I said, "Which side are you on?" Give us a description of the victims in these. Is it the people who sold the checkbook and made the ladders and scammed the market, the people who were in prison for unfair rivalry, or the ones who were not collected? Dear lawmakers, there's only one way to prevent this: the mind. What is it? The bank that gives the checkbook categorizes, categorizes the checkbooks; the blue book, the red notebook, the white book, and puts a limit on all of them, says: "The blue book can cut $10,000 per leaf, the red book can cut 20,000 liras, the white book can cut 50,000 liras. How many pages in the checkbook? So let's say there's 20 pages each, and in that loan limit, the bank gets the deposits from the client, the dealer, and so, just as the check is being used on our market as a loan sheet for three months, five months, six months, and then in the bank, if there's no money in return, that check is paid from the owner's account, and then the bank, in exchange for the deposits, will be dealt with that citizen. So the check becomes a safer document, and there's no such thing as a bad check, because the bank has taken all kinds of guarantees, and the owner's obligation to pay is now in the bank, and the check becomes a secure document. But instead of you organizing it like this, as usual, in a classic AKP way, let me please that side, let me please that side... Dear lawmakers, when you do not make a fair decision between right and wrong, it means victimizing the righteous. Therefore, justice does not stand. The AKP has created new victims in its application to please both sides so as not to lose votes. So, in that logic, the economy will be more vulnerable because when the checks really start to work out right on the market -- that's what I just asked Mr. Secretary -- it's going to make the illegitimate domestic patient fall. You're even worried about him, Aman, these checks are going around the market, so there's a lot of non-profit income going up in the country. Your MPs, your ministers, they're still using the expression "national income." This is how badly we face a Turkey-run government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-31sit02spe0161par0222	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Tallie. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
