tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes, and the government has the right to answer. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Istanbul MP Osman Sevgi Bak, who asked for a comment on the 2012 London Olympics. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games and to Istanbul's 2020 Olympic candidacy. I hereby salute the General Assembly. As I begin my speech, I celebrate the July 1st Maritime and Cabotage Day of the entire naval community. Istanbul was elected the European Sports Capital in 2012 and became the first city to have the title without a member of the European Union, and again, our Istanbul has been nominated to host the 32th Olympic and Paralympic Games, which will be held in 2020. At a meeting held at the Olympic House on 13 August 2011, our Prime Minister announced Turkey's candidacy in the following words: Today we have come together to announce our 2020 Olympic Games nominations, which we consider very important for our country and for our people. We're excited because we sincerely believe that this time we're going to achieve our goal. Turkey is an Olympic country at its core. The torch would suit this country very well. The International Olympic Committee announced on 23 May 2012 that Tokyo and Madrid, along with Istanbul, would move on, eliminating Doha and Bakû, from candidate cities at an assessment meeting in Quebec, Canada. Many organizations, including popular majors such as basketball, athletics, wrestling and tennis, are moving forward with confidence to our 2020 goals, thanks to mass sports activities for Istanbul's municipality of Istanbul. Istanbul became the demand point for international federations, of course, through the selfless work of our municipality and ultimately the political and economic stability of our ten-year government, and at the moment we are here today, it has had sufficient infrastructure to fulfill Istanbul's long-standing ambition for Olympic regulation. Istanbul is now one of the most popular global centers of sports. The Ministry of Youth and Sports is a planned lobbying process for our national Olympic Committee and for our entire nation, which will be held on 7 September 2013 in Buenos Aires, Argentina's capital city of Argentina, the IOC General Assembly of IOC, where 2020 Olympics and Paralympic Games are hosted by Istanbul. Honourable MPs, I'd like to tell you about our 30th Summer Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games, which will begin in London in 26 days. But before that, I congratulate our Miss Basketball National Team, who won the right to participate in the games by defeating Argentina last Friday. In the European Athletics Championship in Helsinki yesterday, our national athletes Nevin Answer, Gülcan Mündü and Polat Arikan won three gold medals for our country as European champions. I congratulate our athletes and those who have done their best. Honourable lawmakers, the achievements of our athletes supported during our rule in international competitions have been crowned with the highest participation of the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. In addition to our women's basketball and volleyball teams, we participate in London with 27 women's basketball and volleyball teams, 13 in wrestling, 9 in weightlifters, 6 in boxing, 5 in shooting and 5 in sailing, 3 in bicycles, taekwondo and swimming, 2 in judo and table tennis, archery, gymnastics and badminton. In the Paralympic Games, we are represented by 46 men and 21 female athletes. For the first time in 52 years, we're at the Olympic Games in team sports. Considering that we participated in the 2000 Sydney Olympics at 60, 2004 Athens Olympics with 75 and 84 athletes at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, we see a stable increase during our rule. Dear lawmakers, I would like to convey my wishes as a wrestler who has won 11 medals in the 1948 Olympic Games in London, again six gold medals, and who have taught the world the word of a legendary wrestling team, such as Turkish, to our ancestor's representatives of our sports, who have served as president of the two-term Wrestling Federation of Wrestlers. I'd like to thank the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the National Olympic Committee for its achievements in both the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games and 2020 nominations, and thank the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality for its activities and contributions to its candidacy file so far. I salute the General Assembly with the request of Istanbul, which held Olympic and paralympic games before the 2023 target of our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Bak. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Hüseyin Filiz, the Çankırı MP, who wants to make a statement about the contribution of the shopping days to our provinces. Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, I'm here to present you with my opinion on the problems of the high-value MPs, the shopping festivals and the viability that these festivals bring to our provinces, and the problems of Çankırı. I salute the House. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, as you know, in the last few days around the world, shopping festivals, conventions, fairs are being held. These festivals bring movement to our tradesmen, improve the morale of our tradesmen, and become a lifeblood to our tradesmen. However, I benefit from the spread of these festivals throughout the provinces. When I say shopping, I immediately think of the textile industry. I've been closely monitoring the problems of the textile industry. I know that textile investors are manufacturing in basements, especially under apartments, under unhealthy conditions in Ankara and Istanbul. I have a call from here specifically to textile investors. I'm just saying that the province of Çankır is the 5th district of development, according to the new Incentivisation Act, but if we invest in organised industry, we take advantage of the conditions of the 6th district. Therefore, I invite the textile sector in Turkey to go from here to Çankırı. Dear lawmakers have taken a lot of investments in our government over the past few years. In particular, with the support of State Waterworks, our Minister Veysel Eroglu, the foundations of two very important projects were laid in Çanırı. The Redwater Project and the Hamzalı Watering Project -- two of them -- are worth 120 trillion liras. If these two projects come to life, especially if they were to be executed, they would increase at least 50 per cent from the situation in the Kızırırmak region of Çanırı, where wheat and barley will rise, and the production of sugar beets in Çanırı will increase.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0005par0035	No quotas, quotas?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0004par0036	Dear lawmakers, there is no region from Istanbul to Ankara today if Çankırı, particularly among the main cities in the organised industrial area, is used by the conditions of the 6th district if investment is made, so that it may benefit from the possibilities of the 6th district. So we are preparing to lay the foundations of an organized industry in Çanrı, to take this opportunity, and I want to announce it to you here. This is the organised industry that we want to build -- you know, 70 miles [20 km] to Ankara, our city border is 80 km [80 km], and Ankara will benefit from the resources of Ankara's industry, especially if the industrialists in Ankara come and invest in it. This organized industry, 15 to 20 minutes from Esenboğa Airport, will also use the Esenboğa Airport as an airport for Çanbırı. So, when we say what are the conditions of this 6th district? When we repeat, Ankara will receive the investor's land with money, from Çankırı, the future, and the land for free. The free land will have interest support right next to it; it will receive seven years in the 5th district and 10 years in the 6th district. At the same time, the USSR will receive bonus support, at least -- if it is organised -- for 10 years it will receive a bonus. My dear countrymen... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, apart from that... [[Applause]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0006par0042	We're all from Çankırı.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0007par0043	We're all kind of locals. We're all from Çanrı, we're all from the village.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0004par0044	Thank you. My countrymen matter to me, of course I can't get them out of my mind, I salute my countrymen from here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to finally say that if there's going to be an investment, it has to be the province of Çankırı...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0008par0049	Mr. Flitz, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0004par0050	I complete my words here, and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0008par0052	The third non-responsive statement belongs to Manisa MP Hasan Ören. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0009par0056	Mr. President, you know that 146 districts of Turkey have recently been closed. In fact, as these courts closed, their motives were established, and their motives could be discussed. That's right, that's wrong, but that's where the problem begins when you try to reopen the courthouses, bypass the House, and ignore the grounds, in addition to the courts that have been closed. What was HSYK's motive? 1) The population will not be less than 10,000, but will be above 10,000. 3) Distance from 15 to 40 km. This could have been debated, and you might have been right to say: "Yamama-walking-judgment institutions that are not under each other's control." You would have said, "This discussion could have walked on this basis." But what did you do? The legislation has been bypassed, you've been pressuring the executive law, allowing 44 districts to be opened from within which they don't meet the same criteria. That's where the ropes broke. My dear friends, the district of Gölmarmara, has 15,000 inhabitants, and you have closed the distance to Akhisar (27 km). Bridgebaş is 30 miles [50 km] from Salihli district, so you closed it, not less than 15 kilometers [50 km] from here, but under any circumstances, you opened some districts within a 9km radius of the districts under 15 km [9 km] from where it was connected. It's useful to open it because in these counties, the courthouse contributes greatly to its social life. Now 102 county courthouses are waiting to open. You can't get rid of it with this: we can't pressure HSYK. You can't go to 102 districts and make excuses. These are courts that have been opened in the history of the republic, not the courts that were closed during the AKP period. There's no need to explain how much the courthouse brings to a county. I know that both you and the living have a problem with that. Let us go, we are the opposition, but the AKP's government, which bypassed the living, has put you in trouble in front of 102 counties. We, opposition lawmakers, will go to these counties, continue to tell the truth about why the courthouses in these districts were closed, but you will have problems with going to those counties. So a AKP MP goes to the bridge and says something else, the other AKP MP at Manisa Bridgehead has to go and tell him something else. If the closing of the courthouses in 102 districts really contributes to the social lives and economic lives of those districts, let's discuss it here. If there's no such thing, or if there's no such thing, why did those 44 counties open up? Don't they have the same criteria? Didn't the HSYK set these criteria for 146 districts, which are closed in 146 districts in total? If he put it for 146, which force, which force, the HSYK, which you claim to be independent, has put this pressure on him, thus opening the courts of 44 counties? There's a benefit in opening it, there's a Republican People's Party that wants it to open, but we don't want that, we want to open the courthouse in 102 districts. 102 courts are also required to be opened in Turkey. If the law on this is really on the same page, we need your help in opening it. Otherwise, you'll always have to face different actions on this bench. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Congressmans, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to our friends who have entered the system. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0011par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. It's July 1st, Kabotaj Day. Eighty-six years ago today, our country ended its privileges with the Lausanne Agreement and foreign ships in our ports, and on July 1, 1926, it adopted the Kabotaj Law and nationalized those privileges. Turkish seamanship is in a very serious crisis. In particular, the international lobby implements all kinds of evil policies that cause Turkish flagships to decline from 98 per cent to 40 per cent, while the AKP government continues to monitor this trend. As the National Movement Party, we urge everyone and every group to support this issue, stating that we are determined to start a fight without seeing it as an obstacle to the Council's vacation as a matter of honor. Barbaros, who has arrived in the afterlife, remembers the blessings of today's all-sea heroes, yesterday's heroes, and I celebrate the festival of our heroic navy and everyone who deals in the sea trade. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0012par0078	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0013par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. National Real Estate, owned by the Finance Ministry, is irregular in some neighborhoods in Istanbul. It is widely known that the national real estate has condemned a section of the buildings' gardens four years ago to add another line to the Marmaray railway line, and has not done any activities in the places that have been condemned. This means unfairly taking the property of a citizen of the state. Not content with this, the national estate demanded a year-based rent, claiming that residents were using areas it condemned and did not use. It is a very serious problem for citizens to be asked to turn fences as if their objections to the rent-payment order were supposedly rejected by evidence, and as a justification, they were asked to turn fences as if they belonged to the condemned residents of the building. As it belonged to the owner of this mission, the national estate set up a trap by not touching the land it owned for four years. A number of residents live on the Istanbul Anatolian coast. The managers who don't investigate these allegations are responsible for the same robbery. I'd like to remind you that these debts of past years must be erased immediately.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0012par0083	Thank you. Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0014par0086	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are an independent HSYK judicial body. He takes his savings and decisions of his own free will. In previous times, the courts have been closed as needed, and the courts have recently been closed in 146 locations. As a justification, the acceleration of the trial has been established. HSYK has the right to appeal to the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice has assessed this objection and has justified the HSYK and reopened 44 courthouses, including Manisa Selden and the Forty Tree Courthouses. This issue is too important to make political material. There will be no material for Mr. Hasan Ören. All districts of Manisa are important to us. We will continue to make Manisa rich and rich. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0012par0088	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0015par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. In the province of Adıyaman, the migration season has begun again. In Adıyaman, surrounded by water, 15 percent of waterable land can only be watered down. The AKP government, which has been in power for the past ten years, gives adıyaman the good news of the watering project before every election, but one has not yet happened. Baby 1, Aslanoglu, Koçali Dam, Pineyurd Dam, Kahta Tea dams have not yet been built. Once again, our Adıyaman citizens have started exporting workers to all regions of Turkey, the road suffering has begun. When will Adıyaman get rid of these sufferings? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0017par0096	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, we've brought it up a few times, but we have a problem that we're not getting any results from. Last year, beet producers suffered a great loss. So no one could get their crops out of the field because of the early winter, but there was the same problem in the surrounding provinces. The farmer's debt, the debt of the surrounding provinces -- we've spoken it several times -- was postponed a large portion of it, but at this point, there was a segregation. I invite the government to carry out their responsibilities in order for this to be resolved. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Veysel Eroglu. All the waterworks in Malatya have no guard rails. That's why dozens of people die every year. Now, we call it democracy, we call it the great state, but our young people still drown every year in the streams and canals in Malatya and Turkey. A family was last destroyed in the village of Egyptdere in Yazhan district of Malatya. In the last days, I went to the rescue work, and watched it in its place, and the mother cried out, and my child, according to her eyes, cried out, and died, begging. Since there were no guards, our car flew into the canal and our family was destroyed, he says. I ask you, Mr. Minister Eroglu, to build guard rails around the irrigation canals in Malatya, especially where the road is. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0021par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Twenty per cent of the GAP project in the province of Şanlıurfa is finished and 80 per cent of it has not been started. For this reason, the Şanliurfa are victims. When will this sacrifice end? That's question number one. Second question: The Ataturk Dam is being poured into the Ataturk Dam because there are no cleanup facilities for the adjacent provinces and counties. With this, the public performs the irrigation process. It's also pollution. I demand that the concerned be sensitive about this. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit01spe0022par0113	Thank you. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On October 23, 2011, Van Ercish was responsible for the most damaged buildings of public buildings, especially in the name of public and public administration, which were conducted before and after the quakes at Van Ercish, on November 9, 2011, in order to determine the use of the Bayram Hotel, which allowed the use of 40 people during the November 9th earthquake, to be identified as being discriminated against amongst the victims of the earthquake, and to determine the conditions for the declaration of the disaster zones that caused the most to be declared. And TBMM Interior Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. 1) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] On 23 October 2011, a 7.2-sized earthquake occurred in the district of Ercish, the central base of Van. On 9 November 2011, there was a second 5.6-sized earthquake, the district of Edremit, the central base of Van. Between the two earthquakes and after 9 November, the violence was greater than 2 and nearly 3,000 afterquakes. As it is known, most of our country is an earthquake zone. In recent years, there have been major earthquakes such as the Babylonians, Düzce, Van, Erzincan. According to experts, large earthquakes are expected in many cities, especially Istanbul. However, statements and attitudes in the face of state and public administration in the face of the disaster of the earthquake in Van Naha have led to increased casualties, not only to ease the suffering and loss of citizens. On 23 October 2011, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay announced that around 10 buildings had been destroyed at the centre of Van, between 25 and 30 buildings in Ercish, and that the house had been destroyed, while Kızılay's President Ahmet Lütfi Akar declared that we had enough tents, blankets and food supplies for all the disaster victims, Van and Ercish. Many countries offered to help on October 24, 2011, but the government rejected their requests for help. The British newspaper The Times reported Ankara's refusal to offer foreign aid, reporting on the fact that it was foolish and cruel. However, the scale of the disaster was enormous; however, the soldiers opened fire on the air on 25 October to prevent a lack of organization during the distribution of tents and relief supplies in the earthquake area, and yet they were not prevented. Van Governor refused to work with the Van Mayor, two aspects of the work for the earthquake victims have emerged, claiming that there has been discrimination and partisanism with central government opportunities. Two days after we needed help being rejected to see our own earthquake capacity, the presidency of Prime Ministerial Disaster and Emergency Management was announced to all countries offering assistance through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdoğan Bayraktar, on 29/10/2011, demanded that the earthquake expectations of Van and Ercish be not respected, and as of today, I can say that Van and Ercish are the most reliable in terms of the earthquake, that they can enter small damaged houses. He also said that Van Governor Münir Karaloğlu was involved and that AFAD's technical staff had said that three days after that, after that, the tremors would continue to decline. 11 days after these announcements, the November 9 earthquake occurred. Minister Erdoğan Bayraktar, who is responsible for the deaths of 40 people who were killed in an earthquake of 5.6, said that he would resign first-hand. If there was an election today, we would have at least six MPs in Van. After 35 days after the first earthquake, 16 days after the second earthquake, the problems will be reduced. The government has postponed the solution to the issue to August 2012, and with its final measure, it encourages its citizen to abandon it. Because of the cold pneumonia and lack of nutrition, two children have already lost their lives, including three in the tent fires. After the earthquake, the solution to the Vanites left alone in the tents is not to migrate. Thousands flee not from the earthquake, but from the hopelessness, from the cold. Some 200,000 people have emigrated from Van. Problems in education/school institutions have not yet been resolved. Schools, dorms, housing, housing, claims that damage detection has not been made healthy. He's going to take the university exam, and he's going to be a senior and a student at the University of the Hundred Years, and he's going to make up for the program that can't be done in the education calendar, and he's going to take exams and so on. It maintains its uncertainty. Prefabricated buildings are said to continue training within the university, but there has yet to be a remarkable study to address the student housing issues of about 20,000 students-capable universities. When there were big problems, we solved everything, and the government officials said there was no problem. The earthquake victims had no confidence. Furthermore, the declaration of the earthquake victims who accused the people who had expressed the need for help, not the earthquake victim, as a provocateur, who had expressed their reaction because they were not given help has removed the government's credibility. As of November 18th, a total of $220m,760,000 in cash has been collected in the presidential office, and 28m emergency aid allowances have been sent to the Van Governorate for the damage and emergency needs of the service buildings in the earthquake area. There are many issues that need to be investigated in the face of all this. In the winter conditions of minus 13 degrees Celsius, tens of thousands of people were forced to live in tents, while more than 1,000 TOKI dwellings were not opened to the use of earthquake victims. $220m in cash collected for earthquake victims is kept in banks by the government when permanent housing is needed. All dwellings, especially public buildings, have not been fully assessed and have been opened to the ministry without reports of damage detection. The principle of the neutrality of public administration is widely thought to be a violation of the principle of public administration and equality of citizens in front of the law. The conditions for the migration of the people of Van, which are hard to bear, housing and living, are of great importance from the fact that the deaths of two journalists and a Japanese rescue team member who died in the wreck of the Bajram hotel are being exposed, the problems being resolved, the possible natural disasters, and the parliamentary control work is being done. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In the army and bureaucracy-based process, which began with decisions announced by the National Security Council meeting held on February 28, 1997, decisions have been made against human rights as to women with headscarves. Many women who work in public under these decisions have been relieved of their duties due to wearing the headscarf, while many have been forced to relieve themselves of duty, resign or retire with disciplinary investigations. In an effort to investigate the problems and solutions of women who have been victimised by their headscarf, the Constitution of 98 is in order to investigate their problems and solutions. And the intubation is 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit to the opening of the Research of the Parliament. [[Lug]] According to the decision issued by the National Security Council meeting held on February 28, 1997, practices that would violate the law regarding the clothes should be blocked, while the officials working in public institutions and covering their heads have been claimed to have violated the peace, calm and working order of institutions, and these women officers have been removed from office. Thousands of women and their families have been victimized. In addition to many teachers, many women who work in nurses, doctors, and other trade groups have been victimized in the same way because they wear headscarves. The application is a different expression for each individual. Those who have previously been granted the proper royalty of order have been rescinded or have been discharged from the service of the state again. Since the service ended, women who retired from the USSR or the Union-Kurk, working in other professions, were unable to receive pension bonuses for their retirement from the Retirement Ark because they could not retire from it. After the ban continued in 2000, it is not possible for women with headscarves to be officers to apply for civil service. Thousands of women are denied the right to work in public institutions despite the right to equality and public service in the Constitution. The Anti-Special Segregation Convention for Women (CEDAW) Old Man Protocol was approved by TBM on July 30, 2002 and published in the official newspaper August 2, 2002. The Republic of Turkey is a state that takes its international convictions seriously and creates policies to promote, protect, and promote women's human rights. The obstacles to running headscarf women in public institutions are also in violation of these international contracts. We believe that the number of women who have been deposed, who have been investigated, disciplined, and are still rejected by decisions taken from 28.02.1997 will benefit from setting up a commission to investigate the problems, and the solutions to these problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the legal provisions that pose an obstacle to freedom of thought and expression, and to investigate the situation of arrested journalists, I demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Pain]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Human rights have been judged together with freedom of speech, freedom of speech, and freedom of press since it has emerged and been accepted as a human value. The expression, explanation, print, and spread of thought is one thing. It is not possible for an unexplainable, unpublished thought to be free or to speak of freedom of thought in such a situation. Unfortunately, our country is legally anti-democratic in the established framework. TCK 301. Article TMK 7/2 has been blocked and legally punished to explain the opinion of every social problem, especially in the matter. Its origins are largely from the coup constitution of September 12th, and although it is known by every government, it has been used as an instrument of media broadcasting and suppression policies on journalists. According to the data of the Solidarity Platform with the arrested Journalists, the number of journalists arrested along with Özgür Gündem daily Author Cengiz Kapmaz on November 25, 2011 has reached 65. This number was about 50 in 2010, while 35 in 2009. As it turns out, there is a significant increase in the number of journalists arrested every year. There are also thousands of cases that have not been arrested but still been tried in court. Turkey is further and further backward in its assessment of international organisations' freedom of the press. In the latest European Union Progress Report, released in October, Turkey's problems with freedom of the press were specifically addressed. After the beginning of the Turkish publication of the Turkish language, the pressure on Kurdish publications was expected to be lifted, and the reverse was carried out. In cases involving the community directly, information and public transfer are blocked by a confidentiality record. Pressure and obstructions are increasing over left socialist, opposition media broadcasters and journalists. Press freedom, however, is a right announced by the United Nations by many countries in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Both the UN and the European Union have signed several contracts on freedom of press, freedom of expression, and member states. In this sense, our country is a party to many such contracts. In creating a free, neutral press, civil law must also be set in line with these contracts. In this sense, the Anti-Terror Law and the Turkish Penal Code must be changed. The Free Press is a very important element in protecting and strengthening the democratic system, and is one of the key building blocks of a democratic social and political order in peace based on human rights. It is also one of the basic conditions for the creation of democratic politics. Under political and economic pressure, the press must be reconsidered as part of freedom of thought and expression, and it is inevitable to immediately change the regulations that hinder it. Therefore, we wish for the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission to investigate the obstacles to media broadcasting activities, legal guarantee freedom of expression, and to investigate the situation and legal frameworks of arrested journalists. Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0022par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have it read and processed and put to your votes: At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 01/07/2012 on Sunday, the following proposals were approved by the General Assembly. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party This section of the agenda's bill of law and proposals and other tasks from the Commissions are to be taken to the 2nd and 3rd places, respectively, in the 302 and 287 rows of law proposals and bill that have been interrupted in the previous mergers. Until the completion of talks on Sunday (now) on July 1, 2012 on the 278th legislature, Until Monday, July 2, 2012, when the talks of business are completed until the bill of law number 10 in the merger on Monday, Until the day-to-day programs are completed at 24 p.m. in the following combinations, if the daily programs are not completed. Keep up the good work, It's recommended. Free Special, Manisa MP, on the recommendation of the Council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0023par0028	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors. I salute you all. It's Sunday, it's an exceptional day. No budget talks, but we're working on a Sunday. In fact, we've been working up to five in the morning for a week, not even until eleven, like in the budget talks. We're leaving at five, and based on the status of our commission meetings, we're coming back early. Everyone's tired, sleepless, nervous, but there's an exceptional situation in the environment, so we have to work. Do you realize that since we've been elected this semester, we've all served together in a very exceptional Parliament. Although the parliament is open, even though the relevant commissions are in session, there are enough exceptions to legislature when the parliament is open, using an arrangement brought by the generals on September 12th, under the authority to issue a decree under the law. We're homesick for the bill. Because no matter how important or trivial, as urgent or as structural as it may be, all laws are prepared by the hands of 1, sometimes by the five MPs, instead of the work of relevant ministries, the cooking of bureaucrats in the kitchen, the discussion of the Council of Ministers and the agenda of Parliament. In a matter of extraordinary importance, such as 4+4+4 -- everyone involved -- the Minister of Education has no knowledge of the world, the National Education Bureau of Education is unprepared but is out there, cooked with the Prime Minister's hand, 5 MPs from AKP to 5 members, and brought to Parliament's agenda. It's very exceptional. And we're trying to serve in an exceptional Parliament where there are 326 ruling MPs, 184 meetings to start the meeting, the number of meetings that are sufficient, the number of decisions that are sufficient, the number of people that are not able to find, or rather, the fact that they don't, are you one to do the duty of the opposition control, Mr. President, is that a legal decision? Let's look for the number of decisions enough here. When you say, "Let's look for the number of decisions." Reactions from the power ranks, from the ministers: "Sir, why do you want to check?" Why do you go to these kinds of inspections? Because we're in a very exceptional Parliament. In fact, we're not the only ones who are concerned about this exception, who are victims, or who are pointing out the situation. Italian philosopher Agamben says that the world is now living in the process of a continuous exception and the suspension of the law. The exception, according to Agamben, is to suspend law in order to ensure the continuation of a certain political order in a crisis, regardless of political uncertainty or cause. According to Agamben, we live in a world where lawlessness is now a normal situation, where rulelessness is run instead of rule, the exception is not broken, it becomes a direct rule. As proof of his work, Agamben illustrates a military order published in 2011 by US President Bush. Bush's military order, says Bush: He allows non-Americans or non-Americans suspected of involvement in terrorist activities to be detained indefinitely and tried in military commissions. Now, look at his reflection in Turkey. Someone suspects something, which may sometimes be a suspicion that our Deputy Director of the Group has undermined the government, that sometimes there is a suspicion that his Chief of Staff has formed an armed terrorist organization, that he has appointed himself, that he has given himself a pension, that he has shook his hand, and that the Chief of Staff is the head of terrorist acts. No matter what happens, as Bush put it, in 2001, if there is any doubt about how long he'll stop and stay inside without knowing what he's accused of and suspending the law, he lives in Turkey. The area in which we live is a lawless area, in fact, ruled by violence. The state's government has incorporated lawlessness through exceptions, and we've been normalized by making the exception permanent. So we all know that the mask has fallen, and it's clear to us that the need for violence and these new rulers actually have the will to rule the country. We live in an exceptional country where at least one member of every opposition party is under arrest, we live in an exceptional country where more than 100 opposed journalists are arrested -- we are competing with China -- more than a thousand students are under arrest -- more than a thousand students are under arrest -- including wearing poss, carrying eggs, selling concert tickets, having umbrellas, and they have separate months of trial and imprisonment.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0024par0036	Where?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0023par0037	The MPs are being beaten in the General Assembly, here in the Commission, in this exceptional Parliament. The cops are punching the congressman. Do you think it's a 2011 year where freedom of travel can be prevented? Don't come to Ankara from where the teachers of Education come from, you will commit a crime. The freedom of travel is restricted. They ask, "Why have you gathered against 4+4+4? Why are you gathered against those who are acting here?" He asks, "The judge who is not satisfied with the prosecutor's request can arrest these unionists." We live in an exceptional country where the right to strike is taken from you, and you're dismissing all those who have used the right to strike against you in order to weaken the power of someone else's collective contract. And it's an exceptional country, which is a very exceptional member of the country's exceptional Parliament, who gets 500 CVs before this strike is done, and the Greve will participate as many as 500 people, and instead I'll employ our friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We live in an exceptional country where the torture at the police station during the coup is now ruled in prisons. It's the same deal, only the people who gave the orders and where they were made have changed. It's an exceptional country where instead of the State Security Courts of which the Pashas founded, which we all want removed from September 12th, a so-called liberal, so-called democratist, forward-democratic ruling private officials are setting up courts, and those special officials haven't burned or left lives for seven years. And we are in such an exceptional country that President Abdullah Gul says that at the time of those special authorities' courts -- we all know the task -- the special authorities have become a problem that can't be fixed even by this arrangement. And we're at a point where Mr. Bekir Bozdağ is coming out, perhaps more likely to do the job of the Republican People's Party, where private courts cannot be in the state of law, they can say democracy. Did we set up these special jurisdictional courts? Did we take the law under our feet in these special jurisdictional courts? Aren't you the ones who brought in these special authority courts to create a weakness for democracy on the world scale in Turkey over the years? You couldn't even clarify the motion to remove it last night, and you brought this conflict within yourself to the agenda of the House? This is the first time something like this happened when you guys didn't submit the motion to the special court. My Deputy Director of the Group has returned and said to you, "Friends, where are you going?" I thought we were meeting. We're here and we're not leaving. But you all turned your backs and had to leave that Parliament and go to your place. You have to say it from here, it's all about the new custody that's happening. All of this, there's a new deep state, but it's deeper and more efficient than it used to be, and more ruthless than before. It's so deep, it's clinging to the roots of the old deep government, it must have built a placenta bridge because it describes another relationship between it and the old deep government. Abdülkadir Aksu, Cemil Cicek, Vecdi Gonul, Oğuz Khan Koksal, General Secretary-General Hasan Celal Güzel, Güyük, Güldı, Güldı, Balıkük, Balıklar, Ünlül. But let's be clear, are we saying there's no such thing? It's obvious where the former military commanders are, but right now there's a minister who says, "You're in charge of the government." Twenty-one of the 24 prisoners in Mehmet Agaar's prison have been evacuated. Mehmet Agar was placed in the nearest prison to his family, the nearest to Bodrum. Before he entered himself, the former Undersecretary of MIT Scared off, looking to see if the coast was clear. You built a helipad so that the visitors could go to the prison where Mehmet Agar is staying. I salute you all with this feeling, this thought, these insights, and a great heartache.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0025par0051	Second speaker, Haluk Coach, against him. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0026par0054	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath against the Council of Counsellors' proposal because all groups have approved it, but there are one or two things I'd like to share with you on the scale of some developments that I'd like to bring to your attention. First, I salute you all. My dear friends, last week was a summer meeting of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. Turkey is a country in pursuit of the control mechanism. The establishment of the Council of Europe has to follow the principles of democracy, human rights, and all member states of its dimensions to ensure the same criteria. During secret commission meetings, I represent the size of the opposition in Turkey's scale of control, and our friends in power express their goodwill that many reforms have been made in Turkey and that Turkey must now step out of the control mechanism as a result of these reforms. I'm afraid we don't agree. In Turkey, the concepts of law, human rights and democracy are not, unfortunately, a positive assessment of the Council of Europe norms. My dear friends, on the flight back yesterday, on the front page of the most respected newspaper Le Monde of France, there is an editorial for Mr. Erdoğan, an editorial. What crime did Mr. Erdogan commit? My dear friends, we are in a state where you shoot yourself in the foot. We're in a country that's trippin'. So your initial work on the European Union seems to be a trick -- from the size of the European Union and from the size of Turkey -- to many political authorities in Europe today. Now in this article, a young university student, a Turkish-rooted French citizen, is coming there in an exchange program at Eskişehir Osmangazi University with a student at Lyon University -- his parents are Turkish, but a French citizen -- with the Erasmus Change Programme, and this child is being arrested. Now, there's no way you can fit that in any legal framework for the arrest of a college student, a college student, a college student who came with a program called Erasmus. You can fit it, but the Westerner doesn't see it that way. After that, Turkey is out of control, there have been these favors in Turkey, these developments in Turkey... there's no way to convince any Western parliamentary. My dear friends, again, look, during the process of closing the ruling party, in 2008, the Council of Europe had some statements. Then you all applauded. I mean, there was no way that a party that came to power by public opinion could possibly take the closure of a single ruling party into any legal framework, and that the Western parliamentarians would be able to take it well within any logical framework. There were statements made to him, they were applauded, but right now Turkey is under very serious criticism arrows. If we really want to make progress here, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Minister of Justice or Minister of Culture representing the government, you must be very careful. It is impossible to explain these after the election, after the election, when MPs were allowed to enter the election, without any criminal charges and without a final verdict -- one year after the election, and the entire imprisonment of some has passed three years -- after the election. There's no way you can explain this to a Western parliamentary on your thesis, on your grounds. My dear friends, it looks like the amulet is broken now. I regret this painting, as a parliamentary speaker -- without distinguishing power from opposition. Because Turkey was out of control in 2004, and it was being assessed in the post-control surveillance mechanism, but there's no way Turkey could get out of this process. Here, this Parliament must take steps in some way. This is one of the basic duties of Parliament. In July last year, the ruling party and the main opposition party had a declaration prepared together. It has to be done. Now, put yourself in a Western parliamentary position. I can't bear to see Turkey compared to a country crushed by a dictatorial system like Belarus. Oh, there's a difference, there's no Silivri, maybe there's no criticism in the most respected newspapers in the world that could be the editorial, because there's an execution. We don't have him, he's the only difference. But we've got drag, conviction, imprisonment. This concept of detention... look, there's a report on temporary detention due to Turkey, and there's going to be heavy bills in Turkey. So if you really want to be convincing, if you want to fill in those concepts of democracy, it's very sad that at the end of the day in Parliament, when each ministry is preparing a large sack of laws on a matter that concerns its own, it's very sad that the issue is still unresolved. My dear friends, as for the law of law, there was a lot of discussion when the fundamental law was adopted here, and I was the Deputy Director of the Group at the time. It is the most fundamental concept of the basic law to grasp a specific rule of law, a wholeness, a fundamental issue. But we see that the normal law no longer comes, it's the basic law, which is unrelated, it's stuffed into a sack, it's called the laws of the Torba, it's called a fundamental law. My dear friends, pay very close attention to what I say here: I, as lawmakers of power or opposition, have not discriminated, I have served here for three periods, and I have received different responsibilities in different places in my own party so far. But I want to make it clear to you that you're the MP, and the will that brings you here may be this, but after you get here, you're the nation's deputy. These are the kinds of laws that force all of our ability to live, which nullify our ability to live, sir, which came with this instruction, and will come out this way. At this point, please discuss it within yourselves. You're right to take a little stand here in a group of disciplines, but in the respect of Parliament, it's not a pleasant event. Different issues... and we're going to get it out of here; we're going to get angry at the speaker, the critic, the silencer... and that's how you lose your dignity. As a parliamentary speaker, these phases go by so quickly, you tell your own people what you don't believe. Believe me, it doesn't matter if I'm a member of parliament for a while, but as an MP who maintains his respect for him, after the mission was over, I stood up to some mistakes in my own party on my day, and I didn't bow down. You have to carry the honor of saying, "It's not important." From all of my Parliament... (Look in the mirror.) Should I look in the mirror? Oh, yeah? I've looked in the mirror a lot, I've looked in the mirror, but the mirror you're looking in is the icy glass you probably never see yourself. I'm here to give a civilized warning: I'm making a proposal for the dignity of Parliament, the dignity of lawmakers. It's painful... but when you look in that mirror after you're through with the legislature, you'll see a very different face, not your own face, maybe you'll be ashamed of yourself. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0027par0067	Thank you, Mr. Coach. Now, in your favor, Mr. Recep, the MP of Isparta, is special.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0028par0070	Mr. President, I have made a promise in favor of the Council of Counsellors' proposal. I salute you all. Of course, the speakers here spoke of the dignity of Parliament. All of us, my entire congressman friend, 550 parliamentarians take care of this reputation at the most delicate, the most beautiful, the highest level. Don't doubt each other about it; you're like this, we're like this. Don't say, we're not like a plus-minus to each other; we're not in a position to teach each other. Everyone is aware of their duty, the responsibility of the MP. This Council of Counsellors came up with a joint proposal. Sets our schedule for today, sets our schedule for tomorrow. Hopefully, by tomorrow night's end, the House will be able to take a vacation. So, it's a productive work, it's a study that we can contribute beautifully to, of course, the opposition will use all rights from the Civil Code, which we all have to respect, respect, but it's not right that Parliament, the ruling party, the opposition, oversees the way the opposition operates, but it's not right that a poll is used as a control tool for the number of decisions that are sufficient. It's not an audit duty to ask for a roll call after a check-up a minute ago, it's a question motion, it's a research motion. I'm saying that if we use our rights in the Civil Code correctly and properly, we'll use them more efficiently, we won't have violated each other's rights yet. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0029par0075	Thank you, Mr. Special. Against the proposal, Mr. Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0030par0078	Mr. President, we've signed the Council of Representatives, and we don't understand why the four parties need words, our friends. I mean, it's a tradition of ours when we sign the advisory board, and, of course, when they're promised, we have to take a stand, so let's be clear. So what we're saying is that we're going to the end of the year, and we didn't have what we wanted. Eight of our MPs are under arrest today, and tomorrow's vacation does not give us a conscience of peace, and the burden of the nation's will will will be upon us, and it is possible to resolve it within these 3th judicial package. Let's talk about the truth. Now, we're building the Constitution, we're working four parties in the Compromise Commission, we're probably four parties in the Constitutional Commission, not discussing what kind of security state Turkey will become, what kind of police state, what kind of dictator it will be; we're discussing basic rights and freedoms. We've agreed on a lot of basic rights and freedoms, and we know all about them, we know all about them. We agree on freedom of thought, we agree on fundamental rights, we compromise on human dignity, as part of the democratic community's rights of demonstration, the issues of fair trial, more or less, in all of which is a course in the Constitutional Compromise Commission, but other than that, there's a course in the House. In parliament, we will make the fundamental law, the Constitution, the law according to that Constitution, and that is the truth. We do the opposite, we make the laws first, and then we try to fit the Constitution into it, which is a difficult way to approach it. Tomorrow, July 2nd, the Sivas case has expired, which is a different shame of a trial. I'm honoring it. Among the martyrs of Sivas, who burned to death in Sivas, were my clients. Tomorrow (July 2nd), the İstanbul KCK case will be discussed in Silivri. 132 people are under arrest and 200 will be tried. The Constitutional Commission member of our party's headquarters, Professor Büşra Ersanlı -- was involved in talks with the government in the first talks -- had he not been arrested -- had he not been arrested, he would have continued his Constitutional studies as an expert in parliament today. For three years, he was a friend of ours who carried out preparations for the Constitution with civil society, occupational organizations. Now, we're doing the Constitution, on the one hand we're dealing with these cases, on the other hand, over 10,000 prisoners and political prisoners. In any law state in the world, which consists of Internet secret wiretaps, there are indictments against soup indictments. Today we are discussing the third judicial package. The foundation of the third judicial package is justice, law, person safety, freedom of speech, freedom of speech, freedom of organization, freedom of press in all of this, but on the one hand, on July 16th, Turkey will face a case where 40 lawyers are under arrest. Now, why are 40 lawyers under arrest? They were instructed by the Imran. Look, the lawyers have left, they've met, and after the negotiations... the General Staff has already kept their transcripts there, and since 2004, a government decision has made, and an officer from the Bursa justice department has been in every meeting, and they are coming live to the Justice Department. Now we're talking about a place where the Justice Department listens, directs to the Ministry immediately, listens to the General Staff, listens to the Gendarme Command, within 10 miles of the restricted area. Now, on this island here, he hasn't had any contact with his lawyers in a private, private, private restricted area in over a year. Now everyone here is wondering, what's going on, is Ocalan on the island? The Minister also says: "If anyone is curious, let them come. " The Commission for Human Rights had asked that a commission consisting of four parties be examined on Imralı Island. Some parties didn't recruit here. Look, I'm pointing out that some of the parties that were curious didn't have members. We are now saying that if there are serious concerns about these concerns, let's go, let them see, let them inform the public that the four parties will appoint independent lawmakers. Mr. Minister of Justice has also made a statement about this. Anyone can leave, he says. Well, as far as I know, Mr. Ahmet Türk, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Gültan Kışanak, our co-chairs have applied to the Minister of Justice for these concerns and have asked to discuss them, there is still no answer. Now, you have to put some things right here. Indeed, if, as the Minister says... come, come, come, come. If it is called curiosity, there is a written request, not curiosity, it is time for the government to answer correctly. Mr. Ahmet Türk or other parties, our co-chairs, if anyone's wondering, can go and interview, they should go. Now, this isn't the only thing here. At the end of July, there'll probably be a mass-journalist trial in August, which is called the "KCK case." The world's first mass journalists' case is in Turkey, the first mass lawyers' case is in Turkey, the first mass mayors' case is in Turkey. So take the coup d'état of September 12th, look at the trials of that period, compare the current one, and when you compare it, we'll see that there is no such judicial system in September 12th. Then we'll have to resolve these setbacks. We can, of course, resolve these setbacks by removing the special authority courts completely. When you pick it up and replace it with something, it's not called lifting. In the old days, the ruling courts were lifted, instead of military martial law courts came, they removed them, the state security courts came, the state security courts were removed, private security courts came. Now, you're going to remove private security courts, and instead, you're going to set up a new trial with the same resemblance. Now, that means that the extraordinary judgment has not been lifted. Just as the mother, father of the special authority courts, father of the DGM, grandfather of martial law, military courts of martial law, and ceddi and administrative courts, it is clear how his grandson will be born as a procedural and füru. He is independent, neutral. You will say, "No one eats." There's an addiction in the bloodstream, there's a entity, there's a politicalisation, under the command of power, they're anti-judgment, they're anti-freedom, and there's not one extraordinary court that's ever been in the public conscience with harsh punishments. It's an opportunity today to get rid of the extraordinary court shame. Let's take this opportunity together. This is our call. Come on, it's July 1st, let's go down in history. With the contribution of all parties in the parliament, the special authorities have been removed, and the extraordinary judgment is in the history of history. This call is for all MPs. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0031par0089	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors, those who do not accept... the recommendation of the Council of Counsel has been accepted. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the second place, Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunç and 6 MPs; the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws; the Organization of Republican People's Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, Minister of National Education; the Proposal of the Law on the Organization and Jobs of the Ministry of Education; the Proposal to Change in the Law, Balıkesir MP Namık Havutça, and 6 MPs; the Minister of Non-Atanised Teachers for Free Laws and State Officers' Law on Organizations' Organization and Some Laws Law on Organizations; the Proposal and the Proposals of Ministerships of Public Education; We shall underline the Constitution and the Proposition of Ministership of Education and the Ministership of Ministership and the Ministership of the Ministership of Ministership and the Ministership of Ministership and the Ministership of Ministerships and the Minister of Ministership of Education. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The 4th ranking of Milliyetian Movement Party MP Mehmet Şandir Ünlı MP Mehmet Şindır Üstü; the Law Proposal for the Amendment in some Articles of the Economic and Economic Law; the Peace and Democracy Group Group Chair Şırnak MP Hasip Capalan Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger was held in Article 55 of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. There are two motions on Article 55. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: The 55th Amendment bill of 278 rows. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Oktay Özturk Nevzat Unafraid (x) 278 S. The number of Bazimazi is added to the 128th Consolidation Charter, dated 30/06/2012. The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Riza Özturk Mahmut Tanal Salih Fırat Ali Yellowhead Kazım Kurt Rahmi Love Style Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0032par0128	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0031par0129	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0033par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0034par0131	Mr. Salih Firat.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0031par0132	Salih Firat, Adıyaman MP. Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0035par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a motion on Article 55 of Law Bill 278, and I have made a pledge on the motion. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this Sunday, we're making a pre-season amendment. We call it judicial reform. We make this law so that judicial services can be relaxed and accelerated. We were here until 4:30 last night. We've been working the same way for the last week. Yes, do we really want a fair legal system in Turkey? Do we want full democracy in Turkey? Do we want full freedom in Turkey, full human rights? We need to ask ourselves that question first. If we say yes to these questions, then we need to sit down together and change Turkey's legal system, the Constitution, its laws in accordance with these conditions. Look, maybe we're going on vacation tomorrow, but I'm sorry to inform you that 11 of our friends are prisoners in prisons, 11 of our MPs, elected by the people's vote, are prisoners of national will. This is a disgrace to our law, to our justice; that will not happen, that MPs elected by national will cannot be held prisoner. The same way, in groups, there are collective arrests. For some reason, Turkey has two magic words: terror and organization. Whomever we don't like, whomever we don't like, whichever group we don't like, we put the word "terror" at the top of the word "e." You can't tell what their crimes are; people don't know what crimes they're being charged with. There are tens of thousands of prisoners in prisons like this; there are politicians, there are organisers. Look, during September 12th or September 12th, it was said that they were throwing the word "Apocu" at someone in our southeast, who was immediately taken to prison, who was not heard from for months or years; some disappeared, some didn't return, some turned, others died. There was the word "Apocu" or the word "communist" or the word "fascist" or the word "nationalist" or the word "nationist" or the word "nationist" or the word "nationist" or the word "advised" so that our people were found and arrested. Thirty-two years have passed since September 12th. We all did. Let's judge September 12th. We say, "Let's ask for an account from September 12th." We say, "Let's ask for an account from the battles." Well, let's ask; let's ask. It's easy to say, but when it comes to the truth, we don't do it. The name of the coups is changed, it's a civil coup, it's a postmodern coup, it's a tribute. Turkey must now get rid of this hump. Let's not go on vacation, let's fix these laws. Most of these prisoners are innocent. They want right and freedom. Are we all opposed to people's rights and freedoms? No. We want everyone to express their rights and freedom. So, what is this fear? What are we afraid of? Let's not be afraid of the organization, terror -- these words -- these words have become fear in us. For years we feared the word Kurdt, no Kurd. We said, "There is no Kurdish." We said, "There is no Kurdish." So, we're calling it "Var" now, did anything happen to Turkey? Has Turkey been torn apart? What happened? Nothing happened. So now we have to put aside the fears, the phobias. We want full democracy, we want full human rights, we want fair law. On the one hand, the cases are not seen in time because the case files are multiplying. We call it justice. On the other hand, we close 102 courts in Turkey. So, who's gonna take the load off these courthouses? Won't it be longer to look at the file? Come on, let's get rid of these contradictions together, fellas. So let's use the authority given by the Turkish Republic's citizenship in a positive way, use it for the people's will, use it for the public's expectations. In the squares, all of us will make a constitutional change that will not stand in the way of freedom and rights. We said, "Come, let's do it." Let's change our laws, our laws. Who, why, why are we afraid? Let's put that fear aside. Together, in the hope of a Turkey that does not stand in the way of freedom, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0036par0146	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0037par0148	Mr. Nevzat won't be afraid, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0036par0149	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0038par0151	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion to remove the 55th article of the bill from the text. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, the justice institution is not just about the courts and the process of judgment. Some of the work and procedures of the security forces must be as fair as the review boards' reports, detention proceedings and prosecution's decisions. Again, interim decisions, such as not only court decrees, which are weighed in the scales of justice, must be in accordance with the law, such as precautionary measures, the stopping of execution. Thus, the process of justice must be carried out in harmony with the laws and conscientious acceptances of the "A" to the "Z" to the "Z" to the "A." The decision to stop the execution is a decision made to ensure that there are no final legal provisions in the field and that there will be no work and procedures of the administration and that there will be no difficult or impossible harm done in the field of law. The second criteria the court will consider when this decision is made are that the process is clearly against the law. When the two criteria are met together, the courts will stop the process so that the administration's process will not be reversible, repair and irreparable results. The administrative process freezes against time, stays motionless, and prevents a legal outcome. The word "rescue Basra" becomes meaning and form here, before Basra is devastated. Without a right-to-right definition, not just a citizen, but in fact, courts buy time to establish a fair sentence. This mechanism is part of the judgment and is in the discretion of the judge. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with this arrangement, I hope you realize what you're doing. You're making an arrangement that will result in the manipulation of judgment and obstruction of right-seeking freedom. With the third joke you added, the examination of the case petition and its supplements will be sufficient to determine whether the execution should be stopped, and the administration will not even have to defend it. Please note: A third condition is added, such as the requirement that the process clearly violates the law and that the conditions for the discovery of difficult and impossible harms will be met, as well as that the supplements are regular. It is evident that this condition will be supervised by the court and not by the judge. So you're setting up a limiting arrangement for both the judge and the patient. I'm surprised you can't find a smarter way to prevent the illegal practices of the public administrations led by the AKP from being obstructed by the judiciary and for the administration to run a horse freely. We've seen cleverer traps, and we've gotten used to your plans to get out of the law, and it's a really bad scenario, and of course we've found it as dangerous. For a while, you were putting stuff in every law that you made -- just so that the law wouldn't interfere with your illegal transactions -- that you couldn't process them by replacing them. It's one of the basic admissions of administrative justice, whether you add to the text of the law or not. Just because of your accountability and your anxiety and your fears, this fundamental principle has become the unchanging ironhead of almost all laws. What you're doing today is no different. In the background of your mind, the judge is blocking us, something that should never be in the minds of governments established in the democratic state of law. The court sentences all men according to our Constitution. If there is a lack of judgment, the answer to the execution should be that we are tidying ourselves up, or else there should be judgment, not bullying. If it suits you, bless your judgment, and when it doesn't suit you, criticize the decisions, and insult them mercilessly. There's no way that's acceptable. This arrangement is designed to undermine judicial control over the work and operations of the administration, and it is against the citizen. Therefore, we, the National Movement Party, ask that the 55th article be removed from the draft text. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0039par0160	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on item 56, which I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the 2nd and 3rd amendment of Article 56 of the 278 row bill be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat İbrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 56 of the law, which is currently in session, be removed from the bill. Ali Riza Özturk Attila Kart Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz İlhan Cihaner Mevlüt Dudu Gürkut Acar The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Vural Faruk Bal Ali Öz Mr. Commission, do you agree with the two motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0040par0186	We don't agree with either motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0039par0187	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0041par0188	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0039par0189	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0042par0190	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0039par0191	I'm reading the reason: The amendment of Article 2577 to Article 27 of the Executive Judiciary Act is partially revised by the amendment to Article 27 of the Article 2577. The current regulation would be limiting the freedom of rights search and would violate the fifth joke of Article 125 of the Constitution to bring a third condition for stopping the execution. In the developed countries, the decision to stop the execution is made difficult to stop by the arrangement brought in, while the decision to make it easier for the decision to be made. The proposed amendment is a regulation that restricts the freedom of rights that results in lawsuits between the executive body and the citizens in favour of the executive body, which is not accurate. Mr. Kokturk, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0043par0199	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 56th amendment of the bill. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, in our talks on the general part of the bill yesterday, we have stated that the bill has been burdened with a very large mission, as follows the overall basis of the bill, and that the rights of the individual, especially in the face of enhancing fundamental rights and freedoms, have been heavily charged with protecting the rights of citizens. But especially when we look at regulations such as Article 56 of the bill, we see that the bill is far from fulfilling the meaning of the mission, which has been imposed on it. Look, my dear friends, we have stated that the basic function of administrative justice was specifically established to limit the operations of governance and to keep state administration within legal limits, and therefore one of the basic institutions of the state of law. One of the most important instruments in the administration's ability to keep government administration, political power within the legal limit is to stop the execution. It is considered a very important instrument for the state of law because it protects the law of individuals in the face of the execution, because it prevents the difficult and impossible damage of individuals in the face of unjust actions of the administration, and therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey has been specially arranged in the fifth article of Article 125. So the 125th article is not only the administrative judiciary, but also the cease-and-desist act, which is the basic instruments of the state of law in the hands of the administrative judiciary. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the fifth joke of Article 125, we see that the conditions for stopping the execution are very limited. The first is that if there's a delay, there's going to be difficult or impossible damage to compensate for, and the other is that the administrative process is clearly against the law. So the fifth joke of Article 125 of the Constitution has been limited to two conditions in order for administrative action to be judged, but a third condition has been added to the conditions of the Constitution, which claim to have secured basic rights and freedoms, claiming to have strengthened the law of the individual in accordance with its execution. This condition requires that the administration's defences be taken or the administration's defences be taken. The goal is to allow the administration to continue to conduct an administrative procedure, which, in fact, is wrong, will cause great damage to the rights of the citizen. Thus, an unfair, damaging administrative process should be stopped by the administrative judiciary and should be prevented from causing much greater damage, while the bill, which claims to have had fundamental rights and freedoms, is allowed to create damage that cannot be compensated for the individual, and to provide time to govern in this sense. Dear friends, another sad subject is that there was an arrangement in 2005 with the Banking Law. In particular, the laws on the Savings Insurance Fund and the Banking Editing and Control Board for these boards cannot be passed without the opinion of these boards, in which the decision to act without defence can be halted were first halted by the Constitutional Court, and then cancelled. Thus, in the same way that the rights and freedoms of the individual have been eliminated by this bill brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today under the provision of Article 56, which has been removed in 2005, but has been cancelled by the Constitutional Court, which is clearly contrary to the Constitutional Court. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is attempted to re-institute the law. Therefore, we wish that this clearly unconstitutional arrangement be removed from the draft text. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0044par0209	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 2nd and 3rd amendment of Article 56 of the 278 row bill be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0045par0216	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0044par0217	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0046par0218	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0047par0219	Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0044par0220	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0048par0222	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 56 of Law Proposal 278. I salute you all. The most negative change this bill envisions in the field of administrative law is, of course, the desire to change the structure of the decision to stop the execution. The method of stopping the execution is one of the most fundamental elements of administrative trial. The mechanism for stopping the executive was first set to protect the citizen. The decision to stop the administration prevents the implementation of illegal administrative procedures and prevents people from making difficult decisions. On the other hand, the cease-and-restraint of the administration provides order in the administration's life by preventing a difficult situation from being restored because of the implementation of the process, which is against the law in the body of the judiciary. In our country, there is a need for radical reforms in management law, as in all areas. Such reforms are needed in order for public services to be activated, anti-laws to be minimized. The judiciary must reach democratic mentality and have a citizen's axis, not a state. Mr. President, the current regulation depends on making the decision to stop the administration, causing difficult or impossible damage to be done, and being openly against the law. The new arrangement added the conditions for the decision to be made, in which the administration's defence or defence period expires. This is contrary to the nature of the decision to stop the execution because the defence period prevents the court from jumping to conclusions. In the amendment, especially if it is found that there is no need for the motion to be stopped by the case petition and supplements, the defendant may be denied without the defence of the administration. It is understood that the purpose of the terms of the defence of the administration brought in is to allow for the implementation of the administrative procedure, which must be immediately halted, so that the administration can argue in cases that would be acceptable for the motion to cease prosecution from the case petition and supplements. This goal is not acceptable to the state of law, which respects human rights and freedoms and seeks to protect them. On the other hand, this amendment will hinder effective judicial control. It is clear that limiting the power of the courts to stop the execution is contrary to Article 125 of the Constitution. What needs to be done is to make arrangements to minimize loss of rights. Mr. President, the proposed amendment to the decision to stop the execution, which is the only hope of citizens in environmental cases that are particularly associated with HES cases, will deeply hurt the justice system. The public's distrust of justice will grow deeper and deeper. On the other hand, students who have been expelled from school will be able to continue their education in part, with their trial to stop the execution. In this case, their most basic rights have been taken from them. For these reasons, I ask for the support of our motion, and I salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0049par0230	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 56th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 56th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 57: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to Article 277 of the Law bill, which is currently in session, shall be removed from the text and taken out of the text by Article 2577 in Article 28 (the article of the Law) (2). Tanju Özcan Attila Kart Mevlüt Dudu Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Özgündüz Sezgin Tanrıkulu İlhan Cihaner Mahmut Tanal Gürkut Acar The 57th Amendment bill of 278 rows. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Oktay Özturk Nevzat Unafraid Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0050par0251	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0049par0252	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0051par0253	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0052par0254	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0049par0255	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and the state bodies have been given authority and responsibility under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, there are no concrete suggestions to carry out these goals. The judiciary also caused the reform package to be born dead. The amendments to the Law on Justice and Bankruption shall not contribute to the swift, just and effective fulfillment of the judiciary, nor shall they continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, instead of solving the problem that has been chronicizing over the years with the bill he's brought to Congress, he's also chosen to distract the public by pretending to solve it, pretending to do it. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to Article 277 of the Law bill, which is currently in session, shall be removed from the text and taken out of the text by Article 2577 in Article 28 (the article of the Law) (2). Tanju Özcan (Bolu) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0053par0274	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0049par0275	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0054par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0049par0277	Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0055par0279	Mr. President, I'm here to explain my thoughts and my thoughts on the 557th amendment in the Commission's text of Law Bill 278 rows under discussion. Friends, in Article 43 of this government bill, and in Article 57 of the Commission text, what does the government really intend? Now, it's said here that in cases that require a certain amount of money to be paid -- related to the judicial judiciary, we call it a full trial -- and in any case, it's called the case. There's a mistrial in any case. They're saying that if you've filed a full trial against the administration or won a mistrial in administrative court, you won't be able to directly execute custody fees and judicial costs in cases such as the price of a full trial or mistrial cases. What are you going to do? You'll write a letter to the administration, and you'll tell the administration: "Pay me this. You can start a follow-up of the general legal provisions if it doesn't pay." Now, friends, in Article 43 of the government's bill, the 43rd article says, "Let's not increase the workload of the executive offices in an unnecessary way, but also save the administration from paying the fee and the fee of the custody fee, which the prosecutor or the deputy will report in all cases. Honourable lawmakers, this is the main purpose of the arrangement, which means that lawyers are being asked to avoid paying for acting power of attorney with this arrangement. Friends, this Parliament consists of about one fifth of the lawmakers, and 90 percent of these fellow lawyers have come from the experience of free law. Friends, look, a very important part of this Parliament is called a lawyer, a lawyer, but so far we're not signing any arrangements in favor of lawyers. Every time we make this arrangement, we're always trying to get something out of lawyers' rights, their law. Guys, when we're out of congress or we go to the bar for a visit, there's no way we can account for that to our lawyer friends, so as a government, why are we trying to take over the lawyer's three-bit fee for executive custody? We can't tell people that. Now, in this arrangement that my friends and I have signed, we demand that this verdict be issued. And that's perfectly reasonable, and we see that the lawmakers of the AKP group, who we're talking about, are actually sympathetic to that. Friends, I beg you again, please, let's not defend the state against the lawyer, let's not take away the lawyer's money for a penny, that would be very wrong. Friends, I've just told you, the package of judicial reform. We call it the package of judicial reform. I said in my speech yesterday, there's no regulation in favor of lawyers who are one of the main elements of the judiciary, and vice versa, we're trying to take away an executive power fee that the lawyer deserves in the past. I'm stressing again that this is wrong, and I'd like to ask all my AKP friends to vote in favor of this arrangement. Otherwise, I'm going to write to all the presidents of the bar, and I'm going to report to all of them that this arrangement has been approved by AKP votes, and I'm going to report to them all, and I'm sorry. Friends, there's also been a comedy going on, and since last night, there's going to be an arrangement for the removal of special authorities. Friends have been hiding this state secret since yesterday, even hiding from the President of the Justice Commission by the Minister, and the Minister is standing by the copy machine yesterday while the photocopier is being photocopied. Minister, if you love your God, why don't you throw it a few days earlier, throw it a few minutes earlier, why don't you let Turkey and us discuss it?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0056par0293	You've got...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0055par0294	Is there something else under here? ▪ Do you have a concern that if discussed too much, it will be revealed? Believe me, I'm deeply offended and unbelievable to the Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Friends, I'm asking you, aren't you curious about this arrangement, what will come out of it by this hour? If you love God, at least learn to question him. I salute you all, I expect you to support the motion.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0057par0298	Mr. Ozcan, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 57th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 58: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Your bill is 58. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz İlhan Demirözı Ali Riza Özturk Refik Eryılmaz The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Vural Oktay Özturk Nevzat Unafraid Do you agree with the two motions of the same nature, Mr. Commissioner?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0058par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0057par0317	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0059par0318	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0057par0319	Mr. Vural, is there a reason?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0060par0320	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0057par0321	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main motive is to speed up the judiciary and reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The package of judicial reform has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The amendments to the Law on Punishment and Penal Code and other laws will not contribute to rapid, fair, and effective changes in the Law on Justice and Bankruption, but will continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, instead of solving the problem that has been chronicizing over the years with the bill he's brought to Congress, he's also chosen to distract the public by pretending to solve it, pretending to do it. The speaker is Mr. Dudu of Hatay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0061par0337	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. There has been a discussion of whether or not special authorities should be removed from court, which has been held by the Prime Minister for some time. The prime minister says something, a Deputy Prime Minister says the opposite; there's a Deputy Prime Minister again, and he says something different. After all, we're learning that this bill, which is being discussed today, with a motion, will be added to the removal of special authority courts, which will be, but we've been waiting three days for no motion. There are conflicting statements coming from AKP spokesmen and the government, and I claim that no ruling party MP -- perhaps even the President of the Justice Commission -- are not aware of what this proposal is. Then it remains for us to ask: Who are you afraid of, who are you afraid of? Dear lawmakers, first of all, I find it useful to say that the Republican People's Party has been against the DGM, which we think is against the principle of natural judges. The special criminal courts, which were established in 2004 with a change, are extraordinary courts, such as the state security courts, which violate the principle of natural judges. The European Convention on Human Rights shall also not be found in modern democracies, which are opposed to the right to a fair trial ruled by Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Hundreds of writers and intellectuals, hundreds of journalists, dozens of mayors, many generals and regular officers and eight MPs today, were held captive in prisons by these special authorities. One day on this bench, the Minister of Justice announced that the majority of these journalists were terrorists, as well as numbers. Mr. Minister of Justice is a lawyer, and I'm a colleague, and we've been lawyers in the same bar for years. I don't think the Minister's European Convention on Human Rights is innocent until his guilt is legally stable in the 2nd article of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I don't think he's aware of the causality of the universal principles of criminal law, but as a Minister of Justice, I'm also curious as to what is it that makes him so wrong. My dear friends, the Justice Department has been seeking to speed up the trial for some time. Why don't you just speed up these special-level courts? Two, two and a half years of unprepared indictments, evidence that hasn't been collected in three and a half years, and people who are still under arrest for not knowing exactly what they're being accused of, I think it might be helpful to find a solution to that slowness. Dear lawmakers, I also want to make a confession, and so far I've always thought that private courts were the guardians of the AKP Powers, and that's how I put it. However, I see now that special authorities are the guardians and pioneers of a certain organization, other than the AKP Power, and now it's time for the AKP. The monster he created now wants to swallow the AKP. We told you the law would be needed for you one day, but what you're trying to do now is create a special law for yourself, a two-way legal system. And that's why you bring this arrangement, and you give silence to that certain structure of the past, and you say, "Oh, don't touch me." Dear lawmakers, the AKP can save the day with such regulations, even with the wrath of this particular congregation, but sooner or later it will come back, the day of reckoning will come, you will never be able to escape from answering to our people and then to God. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0062par0348	Thank you, Mr. Dudu. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit Article 58 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 58 is accepted. There's a request for a review of the Commission on Article 59, and there's two motions for the same thing, and I'm making them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 59th draft of the 278th row. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Ali Özgündüz İlhan Demirözıs Refik Eryılmaz Ali Riza Özturk The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Vural Oktay Özturk Yusuf Halaçoğlu S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Erdoğan Does the Commission agree with the same motions?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0063par0366	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0062par0367	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0064par0368	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0065par0369	Motive.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0062par0370	Motive. Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main motive is to speed up the judiciary and reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, there are no concrete suggestions to carry out these goals. It also caused the package of judicial reform to be born dead. The amendments made in either the Penal Code or the Penal Code or other laws will not contribute to the swift, just and effective fulfillment of the judiciary, and our people will continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, instead of solving the problem that has been chronicizing over the years with the bill he's brought to Congress, he's also chosen to distract the public by pretending to solve it, pretending to do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0066par0384	Mr. Tanal will speak, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0062par0385	Mr. Tanal, Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0067par0388	Thank you, Mayor. Dear MPs, of course, we're talking about judicial reform. The basis for judicial reform has been mentioned in Turkey, and is this openness of judgment really right, can it be filled? Turkey has 64 law schools, almost 60,000 lawyers. So if, in a temporary sense, you're asked to close cases in the administrative court for three years, you could fill this staff using about 60,000 lawyers from 64 law schools in Turkey, but what are you trying to do? The number is reduced to 20 people from 31 people in the General Assembly of Public Prosecutor's Office, where, of course, the conditions of the cases related to the execution are being tried to complicate. What is this? He's just mentioned the oratories, but there's one other issue they haven't mentioned, and if he violates the Constitutional Court's law clause, can it be decided if he sues the Constitutional Court for a mistrial? Yes, it can be given according to the 152th article of our Constitution, but it is being blocked because of the 56th article of the new bill, which clearly violates the Constitution. In the same way, the amount of £5,000 has been raised to 25,000 TL in cases both in tax courts and in administrative courts. This can only be seen in district administration courts on appeal. This one won't be taken to the D.A., so the D.A. will be disabled here. This is, in a sense, valuable lawmakers in creating a dangerous, inconvenient situation in terms of freedom of rights. Here, the appointment of 20 people to the Board of Administrative Trials for three years will also reduce the duty of the State's jurisprudence, and that's a dangerous way to go. What's it gonna be? It will lead to different decisions. Here, the public's confidence in the judiciary will be reduced. Well, what do you have to do with it? Instead of changing all 20 members, Mr. Secretary, I think that if all of this changes in transformation or as a whole, at least that's how we'll preserve and preserve the existing chamber. Otherwise, all trust in the administrative judiciary will be shaken here. Of course, there's been talk of private court. Special jurisdictional courts are named after special authorities. Mr. Secretary said yesterday that these are the residency courts. Dear President, dear lawmakers, these are not special authority courts. What happens in private court? You'd have to have a judge who specializes in that. What's the matter? It's about the idea and the testing rights. What is it? It's about the family court. What is it? It's about the consumer court. These have a special procedure, no fundamental law, valuable lawmakers, but there are special provisions that will be carried out under the Penal Code 250-251 concerning our special authority courts. Since there are special provisions, I submit in a petition to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors on April 18, 2012, as a clear and written document that these are not the special cases, not the occupational court: is there any area in which prosecutors and judges and prosecutors, who are in special authority courts in Turkey, have a field of expertise in this matter? Are there any of these judges and prosecutors in the original court of law, in the court of justice, in the court of justice, in courts such as family, cadastro courts? In response to the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors' answers to me, every judge can handle any case. There is no need for that kind of expertise. There is an answer written in its form. When that happens, unfortunately, the judge cannot maintain the basic rights and freedoms of those who are tried in those courts. It is impossible for a person who has been a family judge for many years, who has been a cadastro judge, to know the extent of a criminal justice, especially a heavy responsibility in a special official's criminal court. It undermines their confidence in the judiciary, their faith. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this sense, these are courts to protect private individuals, not private courts.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0068par0399	They're bringing him in to protect Oslo!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0067par0400	So they need to be removed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0069par0403	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0067par0405	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0069par0406	I'm going to submit both motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who don't accept...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0070par0407	Do you, Mr. President, do you?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0069par0408	There are enough decisions; the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0070par0409	Mr. President, is there? Congratulations, clerks; bravo!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0069par0410	There's a reduction proposal on Article 59; here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0071par0411	My dear President, I'd like to inform you that the bill...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0070par0412	How many were there?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0071par0413	...in Article 59 of the fourth joke added to Article 33 of the institutional law...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0070par0414	Tell me, how many are there?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0072par0415	There aren't 100 people here!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0070par0416	Is it worth it, Mr. President? Is it worth it? Look at this place! Look at this place!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0073par0417	...the declaration of the administrative courts must be in the form of the court's terms, demanding that this amendment be voted on. My respects.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0070par0419	Look at this place!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0074par0420	Thank you, Mr. President. With this request for editing...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0070par0422	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0074par0423	I will submit the 59th article to your votes, but the number of decisions is required, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient. I submit to your votes the 59th article, along with the power of editing: those who accept... those who refuse... there are enough decisions. Matter accepted.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0075par0426	Bravo! Congratulations, bravo, members of the clerk in particular!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0074par0427	There are two motions on the 60th article: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The number 277 amendment to Article 45 of Law No. 2577 has changed the number (1) joke of Article 60. B) is a member of the government, the governorship and the local administrations and the ministries and other...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0076par0430	Mr. President, from now on, there are five of us, so there's no need. You're in violation of the Filenian Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0077par0431	In plain sight.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0076par0432	The clerks, who should have taken charge of the Civil Code, are in violation of the Civil Code. He's not here. Put your hand on your conscience.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0078par0433	They're abusing their mission.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0076par0434	Put it on your conscience! Take a look! Is there one here? I mean, for God's sake...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0079par0435	I can vote electronically if I have to, for the count if I have to.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0076par0436	For God's sake! What a conscience!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0079par0437	Here you go. The temporary assignment established by the authorities of the state, subsidiaries and local authorities and other Public Institutions and Institutions of State, about public officials, the second task, the posting...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0076par0439	Look at this place! Misreadable motions, I swear! He must have misread it, sir. We offer and propose that the declaration of the contract be removed from the draft text from the administrative procedures for transfer, suspension, road, housing, and permits, which do not include any changes in duty and title. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Refik Eryımaz İlhan Demiröz Ali Riza Özturk Allah questioneth the liars. It's a conscience. Number 278 is 60 on the bill. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Nevzat Don't Fear Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0080par0454	Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0081par0455	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0080par0456	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0082par0457	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0080par0458	Mr. Akçay, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0083par0460	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 60th Amendment. I salute you all. The year is 1912, and the poet shouts, dear friends: Another time, the oaths have been broken; It's been chewed up, it's a pity, the nation's unsanitary. Your pockets are on the ground because it's the law; The law, the law, has been defied... Now it's 2012. It's been a hundred years. I wonder if the thousand stories we've lived in in a hundred years have given a thousand shares to ten years of power. The ten years of this century belong to you. Justice is the foundation of property. Some of the regulations made in the judicial court, administrative judiciary, many other laws, unfortunately, both justice and judicial order, and property are crippled. Dear friends, if the AKP's ruling force did a ten-year public investigation, the outcome would be: there are two areas where power has failed most: 1) Law and justice, justice institution, 2) Anti-Terrorism. It is the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, making it real. The use of power and authority that extends beyond the constitutional limits of governance or legislation is limited by the principle of the rule of law. In the first place, we must obey the rule of law, the judgment, the rule of law. The legal state is not a state of law. You're breaking the law because of the law. The individual and society find peace and peace through justice. The public conscience finds peace with the concept of justice. Injustice hurts everyone. In order to achieve the state of law, all governments who have worked so far to ensure the independence and neutrality of the judiciary have done various studies. The Justice Department's Judicial Reform Strategy was drafted in 2009, and the road map was set. What's that supposed to mean? 1) The strengthening of judicial independence: has judicial independence been strengthened in ten years, or has independence been reduced, has the judiciary become more dependent? The judgment, unfortunately, has become more dependent. HSYK, high judgment, almost lost its independence, has entered the direction of the government. Even in very simple cases, it's possible to see examples of this. In closing some courts, we have seen how open HSYK is to the direction of the Justice Department and how weak it is to make decisions. Almost every week, we see the Chief Public Prosecutor's statements that are against the law and political and ruling. The Chief Prosecutor's office is seeking to influence the courts in political and legal situations. 2) The development of judicial neutrality: the judiciary is further away from neutrality. That's what happens in ten years. Anyone who says the judgment has become more neutral in ten years is either blind or unconscionable. 3) The efficiency and efficiency of the judiciary: Can the government offer concrete information in efficiency, is the judiciary efficient or has the event been distanced? Can the government answer these questions? No. 4) Increased confidence in the judiciary: The AKP period will be referred to as a period of low confidence in the judiciary. 5) Easing access to justice: access to justice is even more difficult. Does closing more than a hundred courthouses make access to justice easier or harder? High judicial fees, notice fees, expedition costs, expert witness fees and witness fees are paid in advance. Does that make access to justice easier or harder? 6) Development of the penal system: Long imprisonment sentences have been converted to punishment and execution times have been greatly improved!) Those who were burned to death in prisons, prison cars... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...who have been subjected to inhumane treatment shows the pain of the punishment system. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0084par0481	Mr. Akçay, thank you. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0085par0484	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0084par0485	Okay. Mr. Dizacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Trust, Mr. Serticer, Mr. Tamayligil, Mr. Kart, Mr. Bridgel, Mr. Specmen, Mr. Acar, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Kokluk. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number 277 amendment to Article 45 of Law No. 2577 has changed the number (1) joke of Article 60. We request and propose that interim deployment of public officials, second task, joint appointment, transfer of the province, which does not include any changes in duty or title, suspension, road, housing and permits from administrative procedures and administrative procedures and administrative procedures of the Ministrys and other Public Institutions and Institutions and Institutions of the country. Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0086par0501	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0084par0502	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0087par0503	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0084par0504	Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0088par0505	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the proposed amendment of law bill number 278, which is the 45th article in the government's bill. Now, sir, our objection to the arrangement here is that the regulation states that the governorship, the subsidiary and the ministry and other public institutions, and other state institutions, are being established by the authorities in the country's body -- look, the coverage is broad-time deployment, the second task, the mandate, the transfer and the title change, the transfer, the suspension, the road, the lojman, and the administrative proceedings of the administration. When you look at the reason, it is considered to reduce the workload of the discussion, to increase the function of the district administration courts. Guys, this isn't something that simple. Look, with all the power of the governors, with all the authority of the governors, I think it's wrong for me to consider these jobs as routine, routine, simple transactions, with all the authority of the local executives. Look, these are the most litigious issues in the provinces, so by governors, by the governors, by the governors, by local executives, by the mayors, it's about dismissal, suspension, temporary deployment. You, valued lawmakers, don't view these proceedings as simple, ordinary procedures, but remember how seriously people who are victims of these procedures suffer, and even because of them, there are those who are depressed because of their injustices. Guys, I'd like to point out one more thing in particular. Every time there's a change in local government in a city, I think you all know how often it's done, you know, to get out of those municipalities, to suspend them, to get them to retire. Friends, if we accept this arrangement only for the review of the contesting district administration courts, believe me, from now on, these proceedings will be used very happily by the mayors, governors and local executives. I want to warn you about this today. Dear lawmakers, I think it's also true that this bill will have to be removed from the text in this sense. Friends, everyone here has said something about their own provinces, the courthouses that have been closed down. Friends, three courts have been closed in Bolu, my constituency. After that, we also met with Mr. Minister of Justice, the decision to close on Mengen has been withdrawn, along with forty-four courthouses, but unfortunately, the closing of the courts on Cyprus and Seben. Now, our Cypriot and Seben counties are really small counties, but because of geographical conditions, they're very far from Bolu. Cyprus has villages that are 80 miles [30 km] away. Look, Mr. Minister, honestly, I can't get from that village in two hours, I can't reach Bolu. When winter snow falls, Cypriot-Bolu road, Cypriot-Seben road and Seben-Bolu road are sometimes closed for weeks. Now, there's an extremely old population around here. Cypriot had a courthouse before he was a county, when he was a nun. Now, you're doing a math, you're shutting it down to see if it's random or not. Friends, court service is a public service, a very important public service. You can't do a profit-loss account in all public services. You don't run a company, you run a government. If it was a company, you'd shut down this department. Now, I'm asking you, did you ever think about the fire department, how much did the fire department make this semester, how much did it cost? Can such an account be done about the police force, such a question be asked? Can you ask such a question about our security forces? Courthouse service is such a service. You can't save money from the services of the court, you can't calculate whether the services of the court are profitable or harmful. Where people can get the sense of justice as quickly as possible, we need to look at this, but your government, which is incapable of running a state, is unfortunately trying to run the Republic of Turkey as a company. Friends, this decision is wrong, and the consequences will come out in the future. I've filed an appeal, Mr. Secretary. I can't object as the Ministry of Justice, he said. I object as MP of science, and I await the answer to my objection.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0089par0517	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0090par0520	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0089par0521	You have a roll call. Mr. Dizacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Silver, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Nice, Mr. Serticer, Mr. Danşoğlu, Mr. Batum, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Korturk. We'll do the roll call with the electronics. I'll give you a minute, I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0091par0535	We'd like a roll call before the matter vote, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0089par0537	You want a roll call before the substance vote. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Silver, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Trust, Mr. Acar, Mr. Serter, Mr. Sertüdağ, Mr. Tamaylıoğlu, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Batum, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Kortuk, Mr. Kart, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ekshi. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute, I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 60th article has been accepted. There are two motions on Article 61, which I read: Head of T B M M Kn 278 rows. His bill is 61. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat is not afraid The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Refik Eryımaz İlhan Demiröz Ali Riza Özturk Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0092par0564	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0089par0565	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0093par0566	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0094par0567	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0089par0568	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, there are no concrete suggestions to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. There will be no changes made in executive law or criminal law, nor in the Law of Punishment and Punishments, nor in other laws, but the changes that contribute to the swift, fair and effective fulfillment of the judiciary will continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, instead of solving the problem that has been chronicizing over the years with the bill he's brought to Congress, he's also chosen to distract the public by pretending to solve it, pretending to do it. On the other motion, Mr. Riza Turmen, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0095par0583	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, this is an important session of Parliament. Why an important session? Because it's a session of special authority courts that have become a major problem in Turkey. It is a session in Turkey where special authorities -- which have become a major problem -- are discussing the problem of human rights violations. How will this be prevented? We're dealing with these issues. Of course, once in principle, all courts in one country must follow the same rules, the same rules of procedure. If it does not comply with the same rules of procedure, there will be major problems if there is no unity in the rules of procedure. It's a source of problems that have arisen today. Special authority courts have led to very important human rights violations in Turkey. For this, the European Court of Human Rights is sufficient to look at the verdicts. So in terms of the detention period, in terms of discretionary decisions, in terms of limiting the right to talk to the defense, with all of this and practice, all of this resulted in the fact that the special authorities have done more damage today than benefit. Now, there's a motion from the government, like handing over the jurisdictions of the special authorities to the criminal courts. Looking at this motion, the first thing you've noticed is that the particular authorities' difficulties are not being dealt with here, and all I'm saying is that these special authorities will be maintained in these courts and in the new criminal court. So what's going to change? When you ask, there's nothing to change, there's nothing in violation of human rights, the same human rights violations will continue, and so will this new arrangement. It's called a residency court. It's called a residency court in every country. Of course, there are residency courts in every country, but the first is: the courts of residency are not subject to different rules of conduct, the same rules of conduct are in accordance with the rules of residency. Secondly, the trials of residency were set up to increase the security of individuals who were the subject of those speciality courts. There are children's courts, for example, as residency courts. What's the point of child trials? It's about getting the kids a better trial. So, what is the purpose of these special authorities? Like the juvenile courts, is it to get the suspects or the defendants to get a better trial? No, on the contrary, it has led to a worse trial, not a better trial, but the most basic rules of fair trial have been violated here. Therefore, it is neither appropriate nor correct to describe them as the Courts of Turkey. Friends, it is clear that the transfer of the powers of these special authorities to the criminal courts will not change anything. As long as you don't change the arrest regime, a change that remains in such a way, in such a way as you don't solve the problems of the Anti-Terror Law, will not be able to solve the problems of Turkey's judiciary unless you are able to ensure the independence of the judiciary. When you look at the articles related to the arrest, sir, in this law, let the arrest warrant be made clear by the concrete facts of the evidence that sees strong suspicion of crime, the presence of arrest reasons, the measure of arrest. That's not enough, guys. Besides, there's catalog crime, that's the problem. The catalog crimes have never been mentioned. As long as you don't eliminate the catalogue crimes, there will be problems with the arrests. Besides, the decision to continue the arrest must be made by trial, which is not in the law, it is not in the changes brought in. In addition, the decision to continue the arrest must be determined as to why other measures are not implemented, which is also incomplete. So as long as you don't correct them, the arrest regime will actually continue today as human rights violations stemming from the arrest. On the other hand, the changes made in the Anti-Terror Law are insufficient. In the Anti-Terror Law, there are very important penalties that limit freedom of the press, which make publishers responsible. Therefore, the regulation of the Anti-Terror Law is insufficient, and the arrangement for the arrest is insufficient. As long as these are not specified, handing over the powers of special authorities to heavy criminal courts will not actually solve trouble. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0096par0593	Mr. Turmen, thank you, sir. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0097par0596	We had a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0096par0597	There's a motion to review the same motions before the vote, and we'll do a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özkök, Mr. Acar, Mr. Batum, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kükturk, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Kurllü, Mr. Special, Mr. Güven, Mr. Danşoğlu. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0098par0611	We have a motion to roll call before the matter vote, Mr. President. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0096par0612	Roll call before the substance vote? Here you go. Hamzacebi, Erdoğdu, Dibek, Tezcan, Özkoç, Aldan, Aydın, Yilmaz, Çayoğlu, Batum, Moroğlu, Kurt, Kokturk, Acar, Serindağ, Special, Trust, Toptaş, Kaplan. [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Calm down, Congressmans, please, please... We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0099par0626	Mr. President, I'd like a word on the 60th Amendment, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0096par0627	You want to speak according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0099par0631	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems that the AKP Group often wonders why we want a roll call. It's our friends who are curious...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0100par0634	Listen, listen, maybe you'll understand.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0099par0635	You don't know how to listen, do you? Let our curious friends examine these motions, see how the government, the Minister of Justice, the Deputy Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister lie to the public under the name of the removal of the special authorities. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0101par0639	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0102par0645	Congressmans, there are two motions on Article 62 of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 62nd draft of the current bill number 278. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. 30.06.2012 Omar Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk R. Kerim Özkan Kamer Young Mehmet Ali Editoglu The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural S. Nevzat Don't Fear Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0103par0658	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0102par0659	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0104par0660	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0105par0661	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0102par0662	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the third package of judicial reform has been found to have no concrete proposals to carry out these goals, and the third package of reforms has also led to the birth of the dead. The amendments made in either the Penal Code or the Penal Code or other laws will not contribute to the swift, just and effective fulfillment of the judiciary, and our people will continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, instead of solving the problem that has been chronicizing over the years with the bill he's brought to Congress, he's also chosen to distract the public by pretending to solve it, pretending to do it. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0106par0676	Dear Omar Suha Aldan...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0102par0677	Mr. Aldan, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0107par0679	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I was actually going to come up here to make a general assessment of this law, but we just received a motion to change it, regarding the special jurisdictional courts. I'll make a brief assessment of this in five minutes. In fact, it's something we can sum up as the same thing. The only thing that changes in this law is that the judge who decides whether to arrest or appeal is not present at the trial. Nothing's changed. In December of last year, during budget talks on HSYK, I gave a speech saying: "The Justice and Development Parties, you submitted the judiciary to a 40-year-old group, but you actually created your own Frankenstein. I assure you that one day, they'll be liquidating you, too. I told you so. As a matter of fact, very soon after, we faced the MIT incident, so take it, take me. We faced the phenomenon, and as a result, a special law was passed. Now, there is a certain phenomenon that arises: there is a serious conflict between a structure in the judiciary and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and this conflict has been expressed from time to time by Mr. Prime Minister's remarks in a veiled manner. For example, about February 28th arrests, there should be no more escapes. It has been said, but it didn't happen. In the end, we were expecting that the Prime Minister would also see the illegal behavior of these special authorities courts because his own men would be harmed after a while. We've carried this expectation in a warm way, but we see that nothing has changed, just the name of the court will change, even the number of courts, I don't think it will change, the severe criminal courts will continue again in the district court. And who's going to do the posting in these courts? The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Who created the structure of special authority courts? The Supreme Council of Current Judges and Prosecutors. Therefore, nothing will change when the same HSYC reassigns the same individuals. Maybe it's just that the Prime Minister has protected his own men in this law. What's he saying? The provisions of the Constitutional Court and those to whom the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court shall judge are reserved and the provisions of the duties of the military courts are tried. (b) and the sentence of the State Intelligence Service and Article 26 of the National Intelligence Service Law is sealed. It just means that, from now on, I think, that's why this bill is brought up about the immediate release of the bag law and the activation of the judiciary. First, the 10th article of the Anti-Terror Act will be changed, and then the bag will be given privileges to some by law, and these will be those who will be tried in the Constitutional Court or in the Supreme Court or in military courts, and these will be the Prime Minister's men. The Prime Minister has secured himself with his men, but unfortunately he has sacrificed the defendants of Ergenekon, Sledgehammer and CK for an unlawful understanding. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0108par0686	Two motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0109par0689	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0108par0690	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Güven, Mr. Batum, Mr. Özkes. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Subsequent 62...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0110par0705	We have a request for a roll call before the matter vote, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0111par0706	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0112par0707	Why can't it work? We're gonna ask you? Let's ask you: can we do roll call, sir? Can we ask for a roll call?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0113par0708	You've ruined the House's reputation, so it's all fair and square!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0114par0709	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çak, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Acar, Mr. Batum, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Clean, Mr. Özkes. We'll do a roll call with the device. I'll give you a minute to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 62nd article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 63 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 63 of the 278 rows be removed from the draft text. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek İlhan Demiröz Refik Eryılmaz Ali Riza Özturk Ali Özgündüz B. Suheyl Batum The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat is not afraid Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0115par0736	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0114par0737	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0116par0738	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0114par0739	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting such expectations.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0117par0747	Mr. President, the clerk reads too fast, we don't understand.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0114par0748	Yeah, let him read it a little slower. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The changes made in the Law on Justice and Bankruption shall not have contributed to the swift, just, and effective implementation of the judiciary, nor shall our people continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. Today, he has also chosen to divert the public by pretending to do so, to solve the problem that has been chronicized over the years by the bill he has brought to parliament. Who's gonna talk? Mr. Batum, Eskişehir, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0118par0757	Mr. President, now that you've read the reason for the motion of the MPP, you said, "Who will speak?" You did not address the other motion. That's why I'm waiting for your address.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0114par0758	Since we're starting with the same motions, we're going to keep going.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0118par0759	But now you've read the reason.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0114par0760	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0119par0761	It needs to be understood by the General Assembly, you have to say it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0114par0762	The reason is read, sir. Here you go, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0120par0764	Mr. President, we're talking about a very important law in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a law on the activation of the judiciary, improving, accelerating, and it was 4:30 last night when we paused. Dear friends, first of all, let me tell you this: we will, and surely, leave the House at once. I thought the law was discussed at 4:30. It's my first parliamentary period, and when I saw the practices over and over again, I started to feel really, really ashamed. We were talking backstage, dear friends, and we were expecting special authority courts, the most important part of this bill, saying, "Why do we discuss these things at 4:30?" When he didn't show up at 4:30 or 5:00 last night, let me be clear, of course, people's mouths aren't bags, we're all talking there. Are they saying they didn't get along with Pennsylvania?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0121par0766	Don't talk!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0120par0767	How did it happen, I wonder? Didn't the text come from America? Hasn't it been translated from English to Turkish yet? Is he not prepared yet? It is called, and all this is spoken of.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0122par0768	Your mouth isn't a bag. You're talking.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0120par0769	Turns out, I'm sorry for all of it, none of it was true; your friends, Mr. Secretary, were ashamed to take it off. Today, now, the text is in front of us.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0123par0771	It's better than being shameless.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0120par0772	Dear friends, we've made this a habit, let me tell you first. The other week we talked about the Human Rights Association at 4:30 a.m., the week before that, we talked about public supervision at 4:00 a.m. And in the meantime, let me be clear, with this clause, with this arrangement, you've brought something. I'll tell you one. Dear friends, again, we're not supposed to do this; we're not supposed to have any parties. Three days ago, you eliminated the open bidding system regarding the Public Contraction Agency, with AKP votes, majority votes, you brought the invitation procedure. Why? So we can give the contract to whoever we want, the people we want, the firms. Why? And the point is, you say, "Aman, let's save more money for the public finances." You bring something with this law today, and it's this: here, in the middle, we all see it. In electrical energy, in water, in natural gas, you say if they can't pay, poor people, let's put them in jail.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0123par0774	On the contrary...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0120par0775	Now, what a fast! What a sauerkraut! You brought it with this law. But, now I'm looking at it, and you're looking at it as if most of you, rightly, either won't admit it or we don't know what's written in the Jewish context. You're right, most of you don't. Unfortunately, the Ministry prepared it, brought it, and you're bringing it as an arrangement that needs to be accepted immediately. Dear friends, it's a law with incredible contradictions. My friends just told me, we'll keep saying it again, incredible contradictions. In some places, you increase the penalty for violating privacy, and on the other hand, you bring forgiveness to those who have committed this crime before. My friend Mr. Kokturk explained it again in the morning. You bring the same law that the Constitutional Court cancelled in 2006 -- so 20 years ago, not thirty years ago. You're bringing him in to stop the activation. Dear friends, at the end, there are contradictions, there are violations of the Constitution, but most importantly, after this clause, we will talk about this because now we have it. A moment ago, you, knowingly, purposely -- here I accuse Mr. Minister -- are perverting the facts, deceiving the Turkish people. They're using you as part of this crime. We're going to talk about this in all the articles. We've lifted special authority courts. You're bringing more weight on us. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0124par0782	Thank you, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0125par0785	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0124par0786	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Young, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Acar, Mr. Batum, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özkes. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0126par0801	We have a motion for a roll call before we vote on a clause.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0124par0802	Okay. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Çam, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Öğütoğlu, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Young, Mr. Acar, Mr. Agababa, Mr. Clean, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Batum, Mr. Batum, Mr. Trust. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit Article 63 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 63 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 64, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 64 of Bill 278 from the draft text of the bill. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ilhan Demirözıs Refik Eryılmaz Ali Özgündüz The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat Kormaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0127par0828	We disagree, my dear President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0124par0829	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0128par0830	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0124par0831	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. There will be no changes in the law of execution and bankruptcy, nor in administrative law, nor in the Law of Punishment and Punishment, nor in any other law that contributes to the swift, fair, and effective fulfillment of the judiciary, and our people will continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, with the bill that he's brought to Congress, he's decided to solve the problem that's been chronically chronicized for years, by pretending to do it, to keep the public busy again.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0129par0844	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz will speak.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0124par0845	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0130par0848	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, we waited as if we were waiting for Godot last night to see what your motion would be like. I mean, we wanted to take Mr. Bakir Bozdağ's statements seriously. In fact, we have received a motion that the special authority should be removed, which is antidemocratic, which violates the principle of natural judge, which eliminates the right of defense, that eliminates the rules of procedure in the special authorities courts, and that eliminates the right to defence, which violates the natural justice principle, and in no way makes any changes. Now it seems you've become brothers with special authority courts. Special authority courts are very important to you, very indispensable because there are people in this country that you need to collect, you need to take waves; it's obvious that it is. From now on, we'll see who's next, who's next, in time. But believe me, we will never give up fighting over this, fighting for democracy, fighting for judicial independence, fighting for the right to defend until the end, and I want you to know that. Yesterday, we told Mr. Secretary that there were so many: where is Abdullah Ocalan? Is Abdullah Ocalan being taken out, or are certain committees being interviewed? Is he being entertained at the MIT guesthouse? That's what we said. The minister rejected them, but today, the press seems very clear that Abdullah Ocalan is being interviewed by certain people and certain committees in the same regard.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0131par0850	Why does it bother you so much?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0130par0851	So none of the answers the Minister has given us are satisfactory because the Oslo negotiation process has already been rejected by you and the Prime Minister said: "Those who say that we met there are bastards." He said, "I sent them to negotiate." You hid things in the nation, you ignored them, the lies in the nation came out. And now your Imran lies are coming out one by one. There is another phenomenon that is whispered in our ears at the moment: We are hearing that the extradition of the provisions of the Penal Code in Article 311 will be changed and Abdullah Ocalan will be opened the way for his retrial. These whispers come true over time.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0132par0853	That's right.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0130par0854	Is this one of the 95 percent understood issues during the Oslo negotiation process? Are they seeking the way for Abdullah Ocalan to be retrialed and released? It seems 95% of the Oslo negotiation process -- Mr. Bulent Arinc said the other day -- was not a state secret. Now that they're being spoken so clearly, we want to find out. Will Abdullah Ocalan be tried and released again through extradition of the trial? We have a right to know. Knowing these things, of course, this is happening in front of the entire Turkish nation, and the Turkish nation will consider them. He will neither forgive you nor forgive the Turkish nation, my friends. You will suffer the consequences, so the law will one day be necessary for you. Congressmans, we're discussing some issues regarding the administrative judicial procedure. I've done some research on this, and a lot of our lawyer friends have made me a request. You know, we especially have a rehabilitation process in the Law of Law. When we open cases, when we hold our right to extra rights, we can make corrections in the judicial courts regarding compensations, and we can get all of what the coroner's report says, but there is no ruling on that in the administrative and military administrative process. I mean, in administrative judgment, we all know that we'll open the case first, but since we don't know what the price is, people are going to suffer a lot of damage because we can't reform. Now, the European Court of Human Rights has a decision on this, friends of Sabri Sun, and it says, "You have to bring the institution of rehabilitation in the administrative process." And we've been punished in many ways with compensation. Now, while we're discussing the administrative judicial procedure, we -- Mr. President -- are here to improve, and so is our Minister -- we need to bring in the reform process, which is the same as in the Law Law Act. I know you'll refuse if we make a motion about this, but please, friends, with such decisions, let's do what we have to do and make an effort today to correct this misdemeanor of administrative judgment. We're expecting a motion from you guys. Now, dear friends, I've actually promised to talk to you about the 64th article today, but again, unfortunately, we have very little time left to talk about it, since many issues have come up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0133par0859	No, no, speak again of Ocalan, and speak of Ocalan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0130par0860	I mean, this candy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0134par0864	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0135par0867	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0134par0868	There's a request for a roll call before voting on the same motions. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Pine, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Star, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Young, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Acar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Clean, Mr. Oran, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Tezcan. I'll give you a minute to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions of the same nature on the 65th article, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposed laws and proposals of 278 rows (65). We provide and propose the release of the clause. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Erol Dora Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık Fair Wolf Iron Steel Sebahat Tunnel The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural S. Nevzat Don't Fear The signatures of the third motion of the same nature: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Gürkut Acar İlhan Demirözız Ali Özgündüz Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0136par0905	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0134par0906	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0137par0907	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0134par0908	Mr. Ayla Akat, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0138par0909	Thank you. Dear lawmakers, we left here very late last night, and the most important need for Turkey is democratisation, which is on the agenda of the third judicial package, but when we look at the atmosphere in Parliament, there's a very tense atmosphere. We have repeatedly underlined that even the current constitutional study must have a road-cleaning operation in the country to be healthy, and there is a tension in Parliament that has been raised in the last minute by the government's way of bringing this bill in, and again, the last minute, which was not discussed, but later by Mr. Prime Minister's statement, by the release of special official heavy criminal courts to groups in the Parliament, as well as the tense environment in the general Assembly is not independent of the outside developments. First of all, we've said it over and over again. There is a process that carries itself from sovereign courts to martial law courts, martial law courts to state security courts, to private court courts today, which carries itself in the judiciary. What is the basic perception of this process, and what is the main reason? It is the perception of security in Turkey, and we are talking today about a constitutional study, a constitutional study for social peace and democratisation, a process of road cleaning that supports it, and we see in the proposal that the special official heavy criminal courts are being lifted, but instead, in every criminal court, in certain cities, the severe criminal courts will be held in the same position within the judiciary. KCK, Sledgehammer, Ergenekon cases, which today have become a bleeding wound in Turkey, will not even enter into this scope. What's in? Of course, the government will consolidate its own power. But here's the thing: if today's Supreme Court, martial law, extraordinary state, you know, DGMs, private authorities, if we can't see the emotional dissolution that the heavy criminal courts have created within Turkey's society in Turkey and we can't take the precaution of bringing it in this way today, then we're still at the beginning of the business, we're at the beginning of the road, we're not at a distance. Dear friends, another dimension has been expressed in this hall since yesterday, even caused tensions, and we talked about the conditions in Imralı Prison a year ago, and we talked about them five years ago, and last year it came to our agenda very heavily because conditions in İmralı Prison are the conditions that are not set in any law for the criminal execution institutions in Turkey. There's a special law, there's a special form of governance. Mr. Minister of Justice knows that, and so do the Attorney Generals before him, and so do other governments. But today, we have come to the point of discussion whether Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, who is here in Imralı Prison, is there. The solution is obvious. The government has been lying officially for over a year. The Koster says it's broken. You don't see the tension that's causing it. Why? Because it's not possible for the public to be aware of it if people in the area aren't on the street when they're in a firefight. Young people get hurt, young people lose their lives, but no one knows about it. Come on, you don't know this. You don't even know about funerals going to different parts of the country in the last six months? Isn't that because of the lockdown at Imralı Prison? Isn't it the plague, the responsibility of this in the government, the government's relevant ministry? Isn't it your government's responsibility if so young people fall into the ground, and there are certain reasons for it, and there's isolation at the very beginning of those reasons? It's the government's. It's the Ministry's. What needs to be done is clear: Laws of this country must also be applied to Imralı Prison. The ethnic discrimination that exists in the laws of this country must be lifted immediately. Here's the judgment package in front of us. We're talking about road cleaning, Turkish Penal Code 220/6 and Articles 7/5 and 8/5 apply only to Kurds. Any word from this Parliament? Why is it called ethnic discrimination in the judiciary? Why do these laws only apply in the southeast of the country, east of the country, and again in the Kurdish metropolitan cities? Everyone's quiet about it. Where's my solution? In Parliament. Where are we going to argue? We'll argue in Parliament; we'll listen to each other, we'll understand. As the proposals of the law do not have an arrangement to contribute to the solution of the problem, social sensibilities are directly noted as they are discussed even in this parliament as it is present. Although we do not accept it, we accept it, but the other MPs in this parliament do not accept it, dear friends, the 3.5 million people in this country say that Mr. Abdullah Ocalan is my political will. He didn't do it in secret; he collected signatures, notarized signatures and delivered them to Parliament, sent them to the European Union. That's my point of view, he said. All lawmakers of this Parliament can close your eyes against it, you can block your ears, but that's reality. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll pay my respects again.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0139par0919	Thank you, Mr. Akat. Other motion holders?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0140par0921	Motive.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0139par0922	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. There will be no changes made in executive law or criminal law, nor in the Law of Punishment and Punishments, nor in other laws, but the changes that contribute to the swift, fair and effective fulfillment of the judiciary will continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, with the bill that he's brought to Congress, he's decided to solve the problem that's been chronically chronicized for years, by pretending to do it, to keep the public busy again. From the other motion holders, Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0141par0936	Gürkut Acar...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0139par0937	Gürkut Acar, Antalya... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0142par0940	Mr. President, my fellow MPs, I have been promised Article 65 of Bill 278. The system brought with this substance is capable of preventing the most effective control of the administration. Earlier, the State Court has been appointed to serve as a administrative court for the amendment to the 10th Amendment against the decision of the Energy Market Editorial Board. My dear friends, according to the 9th article of the Energy Market Editing Board Law, this Council can fine 250 billion liras in violation of regulations, in violation of license or certificate, in violation of general basis, 300 billion fines, in the form of non-restraint documents presented to 400 billion and unlicensed jobs, and an organ to oversee these large fines is granted to the administration court. My dear friends, this is a law that eliminates a person's right to a safe trial, reduces the right to be judged by experienced and supreme judges, a change. It will not only ease the burden of the trial, but it will weigh the burden of the judiciary, because after the ruling court has decided, after the appeal, the Court will come again and do it again. That way, there'll be two jobs. It's no use. That's why we want this clause removed. Dear friends, I would like to offer you a few more things on this occasion. See, when tensions arose with Syria, the agenda suddenly changed. But until five or six days ago, we were talking about the prison situation. This has taken down the agenda of human rights violations in prisons, who will pay the price of 13 people who have been burned alive in Urban Prison. I congratulate you. As AKP, I congratulate you on changing the agenda, there is no other government in history that has ever existed! Friends, if it were in Japan, if a minister of justice had died of 13 people living under the worst and most unhealthy conditions, I think he would have committed harakiri if he had been killed. But our Minister is not thinking of resigning, he says what will change if I resign. That's right. As long as power's mentality doesn't change, it doesn't matter if the ministers change. Look, today there's an article in the Republican newspaper of Elvira Aggressor, an interview. It's about the conditions of a person in prison -- living and getting out -- in prison. My dear friends, as a government, we are responsible. A man in prison, if the government doesn't give him his food, he'll starve to death, and if he doesn't give him his water, he'll die of thirst. His virtue, his hunger, his health, all are entrusted to the state, and this trust is betrayed. There are 80 people lying in a room instead of 40. My dear friends, lying on the ground in the heat, these people are hungry, these people can't find water. Are any of you in prison? We slept together and we know these conditions. These prison conditions need to be changed as soon as possible. Your power must, above all, ensure the safety of these people who are in the hands of the state. My dear friends, you have returned Turkey to a great prison, and I am very sorry to say so. 7,000 college students were expelled from college. My dear friends, over a thousand students, college students are under arrest. Don't you have a bad conscience? The lawyers couldn't defend themselves. You're suing him for law enforcement against Turgut Kazan, and somewhere you're judging him on that case. My dear friends, Mehmet Haberal has sentenced the judges who are judging him. Is there such a precedent in the world? The same judges continue to look at the same case. How does that work? The Supreme Court of Appeals says: "You have unjustly kept this in prison, and I sentence you to compensation. The decision is final, but the same judges continue to look at it. My dear friends, you have destroyed the state of law in this country. Look, from here, I'm saying over and over, I'm a lawyer, and no one stands in a state without law, and parties don't. Please be fair. My dear friends, look, I went to see Balbay. See what it says: "Esas human rights violations are being committed here in judgment, as if we miss prison when we come to judge." Friends, I'm out of time, but I want to tell you this: please manage Turkey well, please manage well. It's all in your hands, you're in power on your own. We want everything to be okay. We're not here to bring you down. Do something positive, and we'll say yes. Remove these special courts; this will not be lifted, let us not deceive Turkey together. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0143par0955	Mr. Acar, thank you. I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 65th article is accepted. There are three motions of the same nature on the 66th article, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of drafts 278 rows and proposals (66) that are being discussed. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Erol Dora Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat is not afraid The signatures of the third motion of the same nature: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Refik Eryımaz İlhan Demiröz Ali Riza Özturk Do you agree with the three motions of the same nature, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0144par0978	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0143par0979	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0145par0980	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0143par0981	Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0146par0982	Ali Riza Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0143par0983	Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0147par0985	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, is this the motion that you have been hiding from us since yesterday morning, from lawmaking, lawkeeping from the opposition MPs of Parliament, law enforcement under Article 7 of the Constitution, and the duty of law enforcement? You hid this? What's there to hide, Mr. Secretary? So you just think you know the law? My dear friends say the grounds for the motion are removed from our judicial system for the Articles 250, 251 and 251 of the Law on Criminal Law and on the basis of which the court and the prosecution are appointed. Now, let's see if it's actually being removed or not. My dear friends, with the motion, Article 13 of Law 3713 -- this is the Law Against Terror -- is being organised in accordance with the identification and prosecution of the field of duty and justice. So a rule of procedure in a law that has a Anti-Terror Law is passed to that law. Now, Article 10 - The Law Against Terror is changing -- first joke, friends, I read, I don't need to read the others, but it's all the same: cases brought against the State of Justice on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, and the Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors will be held in harsh criminal courts to be appointed in the provinces that can cover more than one province. The president and members of these courts cannot be assigned to other courts or jobs other than these courts by the judicial justice commission. I'm reading the first joke (c) of Article 250, which is the same thing, says I (c) of Article 250 (c): The Court of Judges and Prosecutors at the proposal of the Ministry of Justice is seen in harsh criminal courts to be appointed by the Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors to include more than one province. What is it? Where do crimes involving Article 250 appear? Here. What's he saying? He says the same thing: the Ministry of Justice's proposal... Let's move on, folks, the second joke is that the provisions regarding the Constitutional Court and the duties of the Supreme Court and the duties of the military courts are reserved. So what does the third joke of the current 250 put: the Constitutional Court of Justice and those to whom the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court shall judge are reserved and the provisions for the duties of military courts under war and martial law. Here the duties of military courts are extended further, so the current regulation is not limited to the duties of military courts, but to the duties of military courts in the form of war and martial law. There's no need to read the others now, friends. The third joke is the same as the first joke of Article 251, Mr. Secretary, exactly, word for word. Let's move on, folks: The third joke (a) was the same as the first joke, word for word. We continue: (b) the decree of Article 26 of State Intelligence Services No.2937 and National Intelligence Service Law is kept here alone. It has been said. They've hidden the law we recently issued here, and they've already counted the crimes. I'll say it in my speeches. We go on: (c) was me, same as the second joke of 251. (c) Ben, same as the fifth joke of 251. (d) I was the 10th article of the Anti-Terror Law (a) (e) I was the 10th article (b) of the Anti-Terror Law, (f) the same as the 10th article (c) of the Anti-Terror Law (i.e. (g) ben, the same as the first joke (c) of 252, 252 cases are also handled on a legal holiday. The first joke (a) of 252 is the same as the first one (a). (h) was the same as the 10th article (c) of the Anti-Terror Law. Now, he's recognising crimes in the first joke. If you look at the crimes of the first joke, the crimes of the current Penal Code 251/1-c... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...about 305, 318, 319, 323, 324, 325, 332, the same, he says. We continue, my friends: "The children cannot be tried in the courts established according to these provisions. "
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0148par1009	Thank you...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0147par1010	There is one in the Anti-Terror Law, which we have already removed from the children who threw stones.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0148par1011	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0147par1012	Mr. Secretary, how do you remove special authority courts? There's no ruling on the removal of 251, 252. You have a motion here, and you don't have one. You have taken 250, 251, 252 of the CMK, and put it in the Anti-Terror Law, and you hide it with this motion. For God's sake, there's nothing to hide.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0148par1013	Mr. Ozturk, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0149par1014	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0147par1015	I wish you'd given it to us yesterday so we wouldn't be so upset or upset about each other. Look, Mr. Secretary, we're going to talk about this right now; it's a trick to the public...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0148par1016	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0147par1017	This is an act of deception, Mr. Secretary, of contempt for national will. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0150par1020	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0151par1021	Mr. Vural, am I reading the motive?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0152par1022	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0151par1023	Read the reason. Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The changes made in the Law on Justice and Bankruption shall not have contributed to the swift, just, and effective implementation of the judiciary, nor shall our people continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, with the bill that he's brought to Congress, he's decided to solve the problem that's been chronically chronicized for years, by pretending to do it, to keep the public busy again. Who will speak, Mr. Kaplan?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0153par1037	Mr. Grizzly...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0151par1038	Adana MP, Mr. Bozlak, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0154par1040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, for a long time, because of my discomfort, I have not participated in Parliament's work, but for a day, I have watched the work of our Parliament as well. I really want to express that I feel sorry for our country here. We're out of work for a year, we're out of year one. It's like we're holding a meeting the day the House takes a vacation, like we don't have any time, and we're holding a meeting until 4:00 in the morning. But until now, we could have handled these studies with great ease. Now, from what I see out there, the citizen and I wake up: the AKP will democratize Turkey. And in that sense, here comes the 1st judicial package, here comes the 2nd judicial reform package, here comes the 3rd judicial package reform, and the 4th is next. There's a great expectation in people. What's coming? The status quo is coming. What's coming? Here, I believe the motion will be made shortly, but the special government security courts are being removed, and instead, the new residency court is being formed. In the past, the regulation of the special authority court, its establishment, was determined by the Penal Code, and this time it was included in the Anti-Terror Act. Nothing's changed. It's just that there's no change, there's no name for this new court, there's no name for it. The old courts had the names of the courts before these courts. There were Supreme Courts, there were Yassida Courts, there were martial law courts, there were state-run courts, there were state-security courts, and there were these special authority courts that you brought in. Now you're taking them away, setting up an anonymous trial instead. I'm offering you a name: call this one the AKP Court. At least the court will not remain anonymous. In fact, what you're doing here, as long as the need arises, there's a lot of work going on here, trying to fix the need, the boredom. At the beginning of his speech, the minister stated: "Our courts have increased in labor. " He did not mention prisons. Prisons filled with prisoners. Now, in order to overcome these two difficulties, the three-part judicial package is part of the criminal reasoning and the penal code. So Turkey is not an effort to democratize the democratic state of law to transform this country. He held a press conference with the person who was on the street. He went to the press meeting. He violated the demonstration law. You take him, you send him to private court, you lock him up; he won't even press charges for six months or seven months. So what happened? Prisons are packed. You hoarded people there, in prison. There are now 18 people in the eight-man ward. In Diyarbakir, there are 40 people in the barracks where our fellow MP is staying, and we can't breathe, we're going to drown. Now, a study is being carried out to address this problem. If not, there is no study to democratise Turkey. You're saying we're going to reduce the burden of the courts. You can't take the burden off the courts like that either. You do not eliminate laws, prohibitive reasoning; you remain as it is, you guard the forbidden, you stand against freedom. So, frankly, dear AKP people, in AKP's policy, I see that the AKP's friends are democratic in their thinking, but in practice they are stathic, conservative, opposed to freedom. What's stopping you? You've literally become a power. You're like the People's Republican Party of 1930. You're not a government-run party, you're a government-run party. And there's no power to prevent you from making an opening. Why don't you open it? Why don't you open it? Do not sin as the CHP did in the 1900s and in the 30s. Clear the way for this country, make it democratic. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0155par1048	Thank you, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0156par1049	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker has made a mockery of the Republican People's Party. I want a promise, sir. It can happen after the vote, if you want.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0155par1051	After the vote, I'd be happy to. I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0157par1054	Mr. President, you know I asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0155par1055	I didn't hear him.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0157par1056	Sir, I told you before. Mr. President, I've given you enough to decide twice.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0155par1057	I honestly didn't hear it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0157par1058	Sir, I did.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0155par1059	We're all tired. I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0157par1060	Sir, after our speaker got off the stand, I asked, we waited for other motions, and they were finished. You need to call the number of decisions you need to make.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0155par1061	I'll call him, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0157par1062	Well, call him.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0158par1064	The vote is over, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0159par1065	Let them ask at 67, at 67.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0160par1066	No way!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0161par1067	Did you ask for a number of decisions on the motions or a vote on the clause?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0162par1068	It's on the motions.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0163par1069	It's okay, sir. Is anyone who passes a vote again?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0161par1070	My dear friends, as long as we don't hear it, we have a mistake. If you'll excuse me, let's do it again. I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, there are no motions. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Hamzacebi has asked for a promise. Two minutes, sir, and I'll give it to him.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0164par1076	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, some MPs from the Peace and Democracy Party have been making some criticism by targeting the Republican People's Party. We, the Republican People's Party, have put power on our goal, so we are a party that accepts the ruling party as a challenge. We don't respond to this kind of bullying a lot of time because responding to these taunts would be a bonus for that understanding. Let the People's Party of the Republic answer us and we'll create an argument, and we won't give you a bonus. You, Mr. Speaker, should be part of Turkey's party first, represent the citizens you say you're acting on behalf of, embrace them, then come and say something to the Republican People's Party, and we'll talk. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0165par1080	We are the Turkish people's party.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0166par1081	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0167par1082	Mr. President, Mr. Orator has lost his mace. Excuse me...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0166par1083	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0167par1085	We're not part of this Parliament's matrushka doll party, group party. We are the main opposition, the democratic main opposition party here. If you've had sovereign courts and martial law courts in the past, there are state security courts and special-level courts at the time when the EC PARTY was a coalition. Here, hit one of them. Look, you've been in power for ten years. Here, hit one of them. As for the other point, Mr. Hamzacebi, you're the main opposition, you're moving towards power, you're targeting power, aren't you? This Parliament has taken power out of five MPs, a small group, a lot of power. What do you think? (Applause from the ranks of the BDP) Is the power and main opposition of this country your property? We have three choices ahead of us. Isn't the only party here that raises 100 percent of the vote during three elections the Peace and Democracy Party? Didn't 50 mayors become 100 in 2009? Didn't we make 20 MPs 36 in 2011? Which one of you has raised the game as much as we have? You two think you're gonna make it work. We have three choices ahead of us. We're on the direct side, we're on the side of equality, freedom and justice. Militan democratic opposition will continue, militant democratic opposition, until you have poured matchwater at the bottom of your extraordinary courts and the extraordinary courts of the AK PARTY. We're going to bury these courts in history, despite all of you, in our country, where the extraordinary judgment will end despite your mistakes. I've been promised that.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0166par1088	Mr. Secretary has requested a statement based on the location of 60. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0168par1092	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, after the proposals for Article 250 were distributed here, all of the speakers on the stand said that the EC PARTY had misled the Turkish Parliament, the public, the country, even more gravely. I say this: The government does not have the power to speak at this time during the fundamental law talks, and I want to make a statement based on 60, which I will do in the interview of the fourth chapter, but here, I want to express one brief thing in order for the debates not to go wrong. The AK PARTI spokesman, our Prime Minister, our ministers, whenever they talked about these articles, said: "We're going to remove 250, we're going to remove the jurisdictional courts." But as we remove this, the ongoing cases will not be affected. We will not take a step that will harm our fight against terrorism. He said, "This is two. No step will be taken to harm our fight against violence and coup attempt. It has been said, "Three." fucking drugs and fighting gangs.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0169par1095	Well, what are you changing, Mr. Secretary, then?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0168par1096	We're not going to create a weakness in materials. It's called four. The arrangement we make is exactly what is behind our promise. I'll explain in a large way in chapter four. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0170par1099	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0171par1100	Mr. Secretary, Bekir Bozdağ has an announcement yesterday.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0172par1101	You say we've got it up and it's going on...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0170par1107	There are three motions of the same nature on the 67th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the release of Article 67 of the current bill 278 rows. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Fair Kurt Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık Ahmet Türk Demir Çelik Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural S. Nevzat Don't Fear Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Özcan Yeniçeri The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek İlhan Demiröz Refik Eryılmaz Ali Riza Özturk Ali Özgündüz B. Suheyl Batum Do you agree with the motions of the same nature, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0173par1129	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0170par1130	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0174par1131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0170par1132	Mr. Hamzacebi, who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0175par1133	Mr. Suheyl Batum...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0170par1134	Mr. Batum, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0176par1136	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we continue to say the same thing tirelessly and tirelessly as we discuss law number 278. It's not because you guys don't understand. Make sure you read this law. Because he said it beautifully, Mr. Secretary, they made more accusations. I mean, we'd like to be heavier, but since we're in Parliament, we've just been accused of perverting the facts. Dear friends, you're recreating some crimes with this law. You're increasing the punishment for some crimes, we said there were contradictions. I'll make it very clear that you're bringing back an arrangement against the Constitutional Court's decision. For the Banking Board, there was an arrangement for the decision to stop its execution, which the Constitutional Court said in 2006 -- Mr. Kokturk said, and so did my dear friends. However, the Ministry brought the same arrangement. Now, while we're bringing this up, what can we say to a ministry that brought back a cancellation in 2006? Let's just say they thought, "Do they jump or don't they notice?" We say they're trying to trick us. Dear friends, I'm telling you clearly that now we've come to an arrangement that deflects the truth, and we're taking down special authority courts. Now, we've been discussing all this in this entire law, but have mercy! Why did we bring this law, why are we talking about it in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? We're saying this again so everyone can hear it, it's in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it's in the minutes, and tomorrow, if the next day is needed, Mr. Secretary, whoever prepared this... it's probably not true what we said, they didn't come from America and they didn't waste time to translate it from English into Turkish, they certainly did it themselves. But while we're doing that, those bureaucrats, he's the Minister, and if we accept it, I'm just saying, let's think about it one more time while we're looking at our children's faces. My dear friends, what was our problem with bringing this law? What were the points that were incompatible with the legal state? We were in the middle of something like a private court of law. Special authorities from the DGM, after martial law courts. Who brought this? Your majority. We were just looking to see if you could lift this. We're going to take away the length of the criminal trials. What were we saying? We're going to remove the long term of imprisonment. We're going to call it. What were we saying? We're going to solve the issue of the independence of the judges. What have you done, dear friends? You arrested people for three years, four years, five years with anonymous tip letters. If you love God, what have you brought to this arrangement? What have you changed, what have you changed in this arrangement? You've extended his arrest time to ten years. Now, what's in this arrangement that you dropped this? On the contrary, you continue. You -- I'm telling you for the first time -- five years in a democratic period -- they're going to ask -- write again -- one day, your children, grandchildren will ask, and you've kept people in this country for five years, five years. He'll say, journalists, Ergün Poyrazes, they'll ask you. So, what did you bring to change that, for God's sake? Five years of detention, 250, 251, 252... now, we've assembled this to a pattern, 3713, and you're continuing the same. Now, dear friends, look, when it comes to the Minister, he's upset. Look here, in Milliyet, the NGOs -- the special authorities -- are history. He didn't take it from us, the Minister tricked it, he got over it. It's time to say good-bye to special authority in Radical. These friends are not stupid. Where'd they get it? They got it from the Minister or his bureaucrats, and it's time to say good-bye to the special authorities.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0177par1141	Right, right.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0176par1142	Now, in your hands, anyone who can read and write can read this text. Read it, and once the special court is up, settle it once again with your conscience, my friends. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0178par1145	It says here he's been picked up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0179par1146	Thank you, Mr. Batum. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0180par1148	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all first. Those who think that changing the laws, redefining the duties of the courts, will have the right, law, and justice in Turkey are deeply mistaken. The special authority does not solve the problem of changing or removing the courts. Because, not the special authority courts, but first, they need to change the mental patterns and the ways of approach that they are based on. The legal cases of Turkey are blind, ruthless, cruel, to ignore legal disasters. Turkey has long imprisonments today, people who have lost their lives in prison while in prison, and people who have committed suicide by making the injustice done to them a matter of honor. There are sports executives accused of forming a gang, police chiefs arrested for being a member of a terrorist organization, chiefs of the Joint Chiefs of Staff arrested for building an armed terrorist organization. Let me be clear: law is a social science, but law also has a mathematical aspect, and there is no law without logic. You can't talk about law where there's a different kind of practice for everyone, but you talk about relativity. If the principles of the same law are applied in a way at the Lighthouse, in a different way for those in Silivri, no one can speak of neutral and independent judiciary there. In democracies, law can't be applied for those in power separately, for those in opposition; it's the same in the judiciary. In democracies, every man for himself, law for everyone, justice for everyone. But the courts or the judges are not too exalted to be blamed. A trial that threatens to arrest those who criticize their judgment is also a separate debate as to how democratic it is that it is acting. Democracy doesn't stand for custody, that's true, but democracy doesn't just stand for armed custody, nor does civil custody, which is true; it doesn't stand for military custody, it's another truth. Special authorities have tried almost every person he has arrested, including sportsmen, for the purpose of establishing and managing an organization to carry out acts that the law considers to be criminal. Special authority courts have become a new guardianship institution, almost above the will of the nation, with its current practices. Instead of persecution, it must be opposed to its own existence, not its shape or its time. Today, I'd like to rephrase the fact that it's a particularly remarkable example. The charge against İlker Basbug is as follows: establishing and managing a terrorist organization. Where the former Chief of Staff should be tried has become an important issue of Turkey's agenda. Let each person ask himself: Law is law, crime is crime, and judgment is judgment; what does it matter where a person is tried? Why did some people want General Basbug to be tried in private court, while others in the Supreme Court? Why was this discussed? The answer to that is obvious. So some people don't trust the justice of the Special Courts, some people don't trust the justice of the Supreme Court. In the name of justice, in the name of justice, in the name of the law, what could be more grave than this? When the law is not the instrument of justice, but of politics, interpretations are shaped accordingly. Instead of law, there can be surrender to power in the name of power ambition, fear of life, public pressure and history. Since time is running out, let me briefly say that what is done or what is intended to be done is not to remove the special authority court, but to immunize the AK PARTY and its supporters against the special authorities. It means guaranteeing the freedom of fellow criminals to commit crimes. The DGM has been removed, and the DOD has been replaced. What is now required is to change the name of the OSI and to put its work on someone else. The AKP is trying to remove NGOs and protect the state and its supporters. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0181par1155	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Kaplan, who will speak in the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0182par1157	Mr. Sakk will speak.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0181par1158	Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0183par1159	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Yes, we've all been talking in Turkey for five years, but I assure you, in Kurdish geography, we've all lived together for a long period of imprisonment, up to 15 years, but no one's hair has moved. So, without distinction, everyone in Turkey had a conscience about it, and they watched it happen. For years, I mean, up until the last few years, 15 years, 10 years, people were coming and going every day, and ten years later, when the courts ended up being acquitted, people were being held in prison. Mr. President, dear friends, in fact, from yesterday to today, you have given us hope by mixing a little bit of mystery like this. Yeah, new things are happening, this Parliament has sensitivities, there's a nationalist wave in the AKP Group, and there's a nationalist wave here. We said, "Well, the AKP is doing something, but there are those who are holding back." By God, we went to sleep with this hope, and in the morning we got up and came here with this hope, but life showed us something. The Japanese have a very nice saying, they say that sun worshippers can't change the heat law, and those who feed on the system can't change the system. History has shown us this once again. So the victims of the past are being cruel today. Those who passed through the DGM... the Prime Minister passed through the DGM, and we all passed through the DGM as a society. So from the Supreme Courts, military courts, DGM, in today's business, instead of the special authorities you've established, the courts of the Justice and Development Party have just told us again -- again -- our friend has just told us -- were the courts of the Justice and Development Party. There's no peace here. What do you get out of that? The government comes out. Wherever there's a government, there's persecution. We know from time to time that you are victims of this persecution, but today you are in power. Look, we're the most terrorist-fed country in the world -- the definition of the state. So 35,100 or so people are being tried in the world for terrorism, 13.500 of which are in our country, Mr. Minister. Who is most likely to be guilty of thinking, the anti-terrorism laws? We're the 1st in the world again. Even this tells us that we need to return and abolish special authority courts that were built for these DGMs. Do we really not trust our other judges or not? So there's something here. Mr. Secretary, why did the Chief of Staff come to you in a hurry? I mean, why did they need to see you when this package of judgment was coming to see you? What did they say? What did they do? Now, that's what we want to know. Do you really intend to create the country of law in this country, or do you want to create your own law? If you create your own laws, no one will submit to you. If you haven't learned from the past, turn around, there have been dozens of power coming and going from this Parliament, and everyone has tried to stay in power by taking refuge in the ceberut state, and everyone has made laws in their own way. Some were caught red-handed, the prime ministers cleared them, but today it doesn't suit you, it really doesn't suit you. Because when we left, our people were saying, oh, my God, the AKP, they're victims. Don't cast them out, give them support because they solve our problems. There was such a belief in our people, and make sure... but today the Kurds say: "The landlord, the thief, has started to know each other." We now know each other. There's no freedom in these laws. From these laws, again, there are painful days for Kurds, painful days for opponents, and the victims of this country are really painful days for those who oppose you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Everyone gets their share of the painful days, not just the opponents, but you get your share. I wish, I hope, common sense prevails.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0184par1167	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0185par1171	Mr. President, we have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0184par1172	You have a roll call. Okay. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Ören, Mr. Özkoç, Mr. Pine, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Cihanr, Mr. Acar, Mr. Trust, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Batum. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 67th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 67th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 68 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 68th Amendment bill and proposal of the 778th row. We provide and propose the release of the clause. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Ahmet Türk Murat Bozlak Sırrı Sakık The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat is not afraid The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Refik Eryımaz İlhan Demiröz Ali Riza Özturk Mr. Commission, do you agree with the three motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0186par1208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0184par1209	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0187par1210	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0184par1211	Mr. Hamzacebi, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0188par1212	Mr. Ilhan Cihaner.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0184par1213	Mr. Cihaner, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0189par1215	Thank you. Yeah, well, the problem we're facing is a moral problem. So, especially if you're digesting an arrangement that is so closely concerned with society, that the law shall be passed by a five-minute discussion, that the text be drawn up by covert negotiations, that the morality is only part of the other part.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0184par1218	Let's hear it, fellas.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0189par1219	Let's figure this out in advance for once. And then how did we end up here? These arguments...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0190par1220	People know everything.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0189par1221	People will know everything, don't worry. These debates began when a number of judges and prosecutors under the control of the Fethullah Gulen congregation called on the Undersecretary of the MIT and former Deputy Undersecretary of the MIT to testify. These are the claims of the media, the claims of those who speak for you and speak for the congregation. For one thing, that's how the debate started, and when it became clear that the investigation would extend to the Prime Minister, this kind of amendment came up. First of all, let's make this clear so that we can do what? What will happen next? Let's see what happens next. But no matter what you do, you will not be able to get rid of the blood of Uludere. No matter what you do, the smell of the condemned who burn in Urbana will not depart from you. The tears of the children who were raped in Posette Prison will not leave you. You won't be able to save the Prime Minister, and you won't be able to save the others.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0191par1223	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0189par1224	You will answer to the public. [[Look at yourself from the AK PARTY ranks!]] Now, what you're saying is that what you're bringing in with this law is that we don't have enough private courts, we're bringing in 30. You're taking all the provisions and putting them in the Anti-Terror Law. We will certainly address the technical aspects of the further talks, but I would just like to point out that there is a sentence that states that the trials that have been filed in court in Article One of Article One of Article 250 will continue to be looked at until a final sentence is concluded. • This is a process that will last for about ten years, my friends. So, the current cases -- it seems that even if there's only one case left, this court will continue to exist until he remains a single case. So, after the martial law courts, the state security courts, then the special jurisdictional courts... at this rate, I think all letter combinations will be used in the alphabet as long as the letter "M" remains constant. So, by taking the previous provisions of the CMK into the Anti-Terror Law, you will have spread the anti-Terror Law to other crimes. The Anti-Terror Law will also apply to crimes that were not previously under the Anti-Terror Law. For example, there are provisions for reward in the Anti-Terror Law. For example, these provisions were not used in the crime of laundering criminal assets, and they will now be used in it. Other than that, there is a verdict in the Anti-Terror Law that states that the identity of reporters is not to be identified. It will not only be committed in terrorist crimes, but in all other organized crimes. Other than that, the defence appointment, the awarding, and the exceptions of this will be included in the Anti-Terror Law, which is not subject to the Anti-Terror Law and cannot be implemented. So you're bringing an incredible mess into the legal system. Is there a secret purpose here? Now, let's make the justice system unmanageable, let's get the workload to that extent, let's make judges, prosecutors, law freaks, let's make sure they don't get rid of the workload, and with a general pardon, this can be solved. If that's your intention, I think we should discuss this openly. Circumstances are starting to impose. Because with so much lawlessness, so much rights violation, you won't be able to manage much. The end of power that cannot rule is the waste of history. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0192par1232	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0193par1234	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0192par1235	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The changes made in the Law on Justice and Bankruption shall not have contributed to the swift, just, and effective implementation of the judiciary, nor shall our people continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, with the bill that he's brought to Congress, he's decided to solve the problem that's been chronically chronicized for years, by pretending to do it, to keep the public busy again. Mr. Tuncel, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0194par1249	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made. I salute you all. Indeed, the AKP government's particularly promising approach has always existed. In particular, Turkey has approaches that act as if it will solve problems that are fundamental to its problems and create hope. This is one of them, but once you get into practice, it's possible to see how far away you are from this hopeful approach. In other words, lawmakers, there are two issues the AKP government is most proud of. One of them is to build courthouse palaces, the other is to open new dungeons. Of course, the more justice is distributed in court palaces, the more justice the AKP gives out. So he sends people to prisons without right, without law. And then when we don't solve the problems here, we'll open new prisons. We would like to say once again that this package of judgments is not equal to the expectation created in Turkey, that Turkey cannot solve its basic problems, and therefore there will be no contribution. In fact, there are applications in the judicial system that are going to cause some confusion, there are further feedbacks, and I'd like to rephrase that from here. Congressmans, a Japanese writer has a saying, and I'd like to remind you once again. It says: "If there are many soldiers in one country, there is no peace in the country; if there are many police in one country, there is no freedom in the country; if there are many lawyers in one country, there is no justice there." We have three. Therefore, there is no freedom, there is no peace, there is no justice, and there is no serious will to provide them. Look, we're talking about private jurisdictional courts now. The removal of special-level courts is on the agenda, but there is no approach to removing these courts and really opening the way for democratisation in Turkey. It's just that there's a project to lift up these special authority courts, start new courts, start new private courts. We want to say this once again: if in Turkey, the Anti-Terror Law, which is the Constitution of Turkey -- in fact it's run by another constitution outside the Constitution -- because Turkey -- if the Anti-Terror Law is not lifted, bring as many judicial packages as you want, bring as many regulations as you want, there will be no results. We'd like to rephrase that. Dear friends, what is the main reason for these special authorities? Turkey is an unresolved Kurdish problem. It was issued in '91, the Anti-Terror Act. What, then, was it: How could we put the Kurdish problem under judicial pressure? In 2006, the AKP government reassessed as if it was a requirement of so-called advanced democracy, as if the European Union was making good adjustments to the integration process, and now it has become a law against society. Now, not just the Kurds, but the trade unionists, artists, intellectuals, writers, students, young people are involved in the scope of the fight against terrorism. You're a terrorist, you want free education, you're a terrorist, you want education in your native language, you're a terrorist! So we got the title of the country with the most terrorists in the world. How can we talk about democracy in a country like this? Now, what's in this package of judgment that can change all that? There's no approach. In that sense, as long as these do not change, as long as Turkey's fundamental problem, the Kurdish problem, remains unresolved, there will always be courts with special residency. We don't object to this particular area of expertise now, since Kurds will be tried. Because that's what we did in the 90s, and then here's what we did in the will courts to the state security courts, to the criminal courts... and look at all the special authorities in the courts, and everyone's quiet first, and they won't touch me, but those who don't do justice today, look at themselves, and touch themselves. So the arrangement here must be for a truly, truly democratic Turkey. To do that, we need to be clear about the basic problems in this country and look for solutions here. Otherwise, you can make as many laws as you want... and I don't think there's a government that makes as many laws as Turkey, and we're working for how many hours. I mean, here, let's say why? In all laws adopted, putting more pressure on society is an approach not to the benefit of society, but to its harm. Once again, we would like to state that special court of authority must be completely removed, the Anti-Terror Law must be lifted, and new special authority courts should not be set up in its place. If you're going to set up special jurisdictional courts, what's available is already doing its job, why are you doing it again? This must once again be known by the public of Turkey. Otherwise, everyone's waiting in hope as if we're making a good arrangement. There's nothing to hope for, unfortunately, a new law is being created, a new cover is being created. I salute you all. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Y O L A M A
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0195par1263	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit02spe0196par1264	There's a motion for roll call before voting for the same nature, and we're doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Pine, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Koren, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Öztün, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Ekinci. I'll give you a minute to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0196par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 129th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Y O L A M A The meeting was not enough in attendance before the vote of the three motions on Article 68 of the Law Bill 278. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. Now I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit to you the 68th article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 68th article is accepted. There are three motions of the same nature on Article 69, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the release of Article 69 of the current law bill 278 rows. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Murat Bozlak Sırrı Sakık Ahmet Türk The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat is not afraid The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Refik Eryımaz İlhan Demiröz Ali Riza Özturk Mr. Commission, do you agree with the three motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0197par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0196par0041	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0198par0042	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0196par0043	Mr. Wolf, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0199par0045	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there has been a fundamental agenda for a different proposal that came during the talks of Bill 277, and it has turned out to be a approach that all of our people have hoped for in Turkey. The President is complaining, the Prime Minister is complaining, the Minister of Justice is complaining, our AKP MP friends are all complaining. While special authorities hope that a law will be lifted and instead a democratic opening, a law that will develop freedoms, our hope is run out, and at the point that we have seen a very special practice. The defendants who are currently on trial in private court will continue to be tried in that special court, but from now on, all the defendants will continue to be tried in a separate court of law on Anti-Terrorism. When we look at what's changing, evolving, and contributing to the name of the law, it's clear that there are no words, but the real freak is that two special courts are going to continue. For those who are now on trial, as these courts continue, a special, separate residency court will be brought forward for the following defendants. The fact that such an application was brought in when the law on accelerating and activation of judicial services also shows that none of the good intentions of the 100 or so items we have placed before are well-intentioned. Therefore, we have waited in vain for you to take the initiative to ensure that the trials held at the special authorities' courts in Turkey are truly brought before an independent judiciary; this has clearly come to light. Although Turkey has made a commitment to all contracts with the West, we are really curious to see how and when it will demonstrate an application that will protect fundamental rights and freedoms based on human rights and treat all our people in Turkey equally. My dear friends, this arrangement will not end the debates in Turkey, it will ensure that all negatives done in Turkey's name in the name of law and in the name of lawlessness continue, but only a second guarantee has been brought in, which guarantees the Undersecretary of the MIT, which has been placed here in a very special way, which reveals who, why, and why, is afraid, and why. ▪ Where were these courts headed? Where's he going to go? How do we intercept it from now on? Assessing it is indeed a point for Turkish lawyers to debate for a long time. In no country, there will never be a special trial for just a certain number of people, but unfortunately today he's being brought to a special court, and we can't tell anyone that we've removed the courts that are now complaining of long imprisonment, complaining that he has eliminated freedoms of rights in Turkey, and we can't sell them to anyone. By saying this, the minister who lifts special authority courts in Turkey is not the right logic and the right approach to giving people an image of the Parliament, which is continuing the special authority courts, when it is being removed from the special authorities as parliament. I'd like you to reassess in this direction and reread these substances and read them again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0200par0053	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0201par0055	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0200par0056	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The changes made in the Law on Justice and Bankruption shall not have contributed to the swift, just, and effective implementation of the judiciary, nor shall our people continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, with the bill that he's brought to Congress, he's decided to solve the problem that's been chronically chronicized for years, by pretending to do it, to keep the public busy again. For the next motion, Mr. Iron Steel. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0202par0071	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of myself and my party. Mr. President, the basic requirement for a judicial reform is that he is liberal and egalitarian, multiplying freedoms, some obstacles in front of society, a quality that removes barricades. Despite the hope to be given to a significant part of society, which has been on the agenda of our country and the people of our country for nearly eight months, we have come to a failure as of today. As the legislature, as we as the legislature, can't interfere with what's happening, the political dimension of the crisis will lead us all to a uncertainty that will lead us to the depth of the crisis. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the presumption of the 90-year history of the republic itself, between central state and identity, between central state and religion and belief, a series of crises between central state and the environment. When we can't solve these contradictions within the norm and normative of the democratic law state, everything we're trying to do will have no more meaning and content than saving the day and the present. Because we haven't been able to free the identities in 90 years, because we can't free the beliefs, cultures, religions, and we've always been trying to get into trouble with outlaw and security, so in 90 years, he's gone to four constitutional amendments, and he's witnessed tens of thousands of laws and law-making processes. We're unsatisfactory, we've tried to align it with law enforcement decrees, administrative courts, martial law courts, state security courts, private courts, private authority courts, and the perception of the community by turning some of them against each other, by altering and suppressing them. We're unsatisfactory, we're trying to break wills, purges, take over. But if you ask me, is there a problem that we can put in the way we can, can we solve it? It's important to understand from the third judicial package we're discussing today, as well as from the approach to private courts, that instead of solving the problem, it's a part of the steps that are trying to condemn them to the unresolved policies that have broken society's important dynamics, breaking their will. In this regard, the Kurdish problem is a liberal, egalitarian constitution in Turkey, where it has been life and property for over 30 years, where there are serious problems ahead of the country's liberation, which is not conflicting, conflicting, harmonizing laws. It's also our duty to get these laws out, but instead of doing them, instead of taking up office, we're trying to deal with people's legitimate and democratic rights, not to meet them, but to deal with them with some military, political operations; we're not satisfied, we're trying to suppress them by bringing the judiciary and the law into action. But above all, the state of law has to foresee the control of governance, governance and governance, a control based on human rights and freedoms, but far from it, it's authoritarian. This is something that corresponds to the character of the republic, and in order for unresolvedness to evolve into a solution, it's to bring up the laws that lead from the single, hard-centred authoritarian republic to the democratic republic without delaying, he says, with respect.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0203par0076	Mr. Steel, thank you. I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 69th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 70th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the 70th article of the Common Bill of Law 278 rows. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural S. Nevzat Don't Fear Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Refik Eryımaz İlhan Demiröz Ali Riza Özturk Mr. Commission, do you agree with the three motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0204par0097	We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0203par0098	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0205par0099	We disagree, my dear President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0203par0100	Mr. Card, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0206par0102	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we think it's a good time to express some of the facts of Turkey directly, directly. We feel the need to make these evaluations as clear as possible, face them, question them, show them courage and responsibility once again. See, the valued lawmakers, Turkey, are a country that has become dependent on economic policies, judicial and law enforcement; it is a country that does not use its own free will; it is a country that does not use its own free will. We need to see this truth. What does this photograph and this fact bring with it? It brings hatred in society, brings separation, creates social danger and a vicious cycle. It's not just, I don't think, a fight between power and the community; it's more than that, we need to see it. What's more, we need to see the big game that uses power and community and surrounds all of us -- all of us, but -- that surrounds all of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, who want to take over. Look, let me give you some concrete examples. We've been describing this as the Republican People's Party since 2005-2006, but we need to tell it one more time. In Turkey, since 2005-2006, legal and illegal elements and dynamics have all served together in the judicial-intelligence-responsibility triangle. Turkey has become a country that has been colonised at this time and has become a satellite in the region, and unfortunately, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay has become a subcontractor. For five or six years, we have been describing the process of colonisation of Turkey with its chronic and material findings. In this frame, we asked the Minister of Justice: "Why did you feel the need to travel to and from America for 24 hours on December 2, 2010?" Answer this question, and we ask. In fact, the answer to that is very clear with the progress of events. We're going back and forth to discuss the new dynamics of the Judge and Prosecutor Change Programme. What are we talking about in the Judge and Prosecutor Change Program? We're talking about the activities of the paralegal before the trial. Doesn't that mean handing over your judgment, your armband, dear MPs? Turkey is living in Silivri, it's happening in the KCK, it's going through all the critical issues. Look, what are we asking in this frame? When you say "Turkey has become economically dependent," why don't you explain the source of the $10 billion from Saudi Arabia and Qatar? Why do the President and Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey visit Saudi Arabia and Qatar (Katar) first, in all critical stages, at the cost of interrupting their trip to the Far East? These are important matters, aren't they, dear lawmakers? Why aren't the motions on these issues answered? Don't you feel the need to question them? Aren't you going to question them? Shouldn't we be questioning this on behalf of our children's future, on behalf of all of our futures, dear lawmakers? Look, heads of the Constitutional Court and law enforcement agencies in Turkey can enter foreign embassies and brief my dear friends on critical case files and the main opposition party. You need to see this photo. So we say, Mr. Prime Minister, come and take me with you. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister, who roars, has surrendered to someone. It's not just the congregation. See this big picture, precious MPs. It bothers all of us, it worries all of us. So we say: You may surrender, but we, the Republican People's Party, will continue our fight against Muslims on behalf of Turkey's citizens, and we will not surrender, precious MPs. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0207par0112	The next motion... Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0208par0114	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0207par0115	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and the state bodies have been given authority and responsibility under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. Aware of this erosion, the public responses and judicial reform packages are opening up one after another to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The amendments to the Law on Punishment and Penalty or other laws in the Law on Appeals and Bankruption shall not contribute to the swift, just and effective fulfillment of the judiciary, but our people will continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, with the bill that he's brought to Congress, he's decided to solve the problem that's been chronically chronicized for years, by pretending to do it, to keep the public busy again. Mr. Kaplan, who will speak for the other motion, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0209par0129	I am, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0207par0130	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0209par0131	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we're really, in a word, going to remove private security courts. You said, "The mountain has given birth to mice." And it wasn't enough, you added worse judgments. So when we look at the motion you're going to make to the 74th article, it's amazing how you can actually make fun of people so easily and show the skill of buying such a comfortable game. I mean, how do you do it, I'm really surprised. Because the European Convention on Human Rights is against the 6th Amendment. Not a neutral, independent court. Again, you're moving one step further from the ruling courts, martial law and DGM. What are you doing? You're sending these jurisdictions to district courts, not harsh sentences. But it's a shame. Let me tell you about that shame. You've also ruled a transfer of the court. Or the state's private security court. If he doesn't have security, where will he go and provide security? Let him go, you'll be out of law enforcement in 24 hours. Let him go, you're extending detention time 24 hours and 48 hours. Are you going to war? What's wrong with you? Look, the name of the special authorities is the father of the courts, brand, patented by the AK PARTY. Your name is justice. If you explain these courts with the concept of justice in your name, the citizens will know what you are suffering from justice in this country. Congratulations on your new trial. You're setting up a security court. GYM instead of GYM. You can sell it. You can sell it as a good authorized court. We have three choices ahead of us. A security court instead of a C.O.D. That's the wrong and cross view of security policies. Look, I'm being very sincere. Why? Now, imagine, in all these crimes you've taken, you've carved yourself a chapter on state secrets. It's like there's a situation there that requires protection, so don't cover it. Let him go, you know, the chiefs of staff will be tried on the Supreme Court, but the special court won't listen. You're putting a little touch on it. Now, the equality of the weapons of argument and defense is the basis of a fair trial. Undercover police, covert investigation, confidential witness, confidentiality, you're putting a lawyer's gag order on top of a restraining order. You'll bring a trial without a lawyer. This is the name of the modern Inquisition courts. You've counted the clauses in these modern Inquisition courts. You expanded its scope and called it the court of ihtisas. It's not called a residency court, it's called saw courts, it's the courts that cut up justice. It's going back to the courts where you use it as a saw against everyone who's deprived people of their freedom, arrested them for their political opinions, imprisoned them, opposed to you. Where's the residency court? There are three items. What kind of court would that be, crimes against the security of the state? But you're expanding it in your motion. You're saying: "The forbidden regions." He says, "The soldiers are putting a sign where they want to go in Şırnak." He says: "This is a restricted area. You will bring and judge the two shepherds who have two goats caught in that forbidden area." You're expanding all the boundaries and coverage. Indeed, I find your conscience and justice... difficult to understand your justice in the name of your party. You're doubling the arrest time in these courts. Have fear of God, is there a return to punishment justice? Can you return and extradite the freedom of a citizen you have wrongfully arrested, arrested for over three years, arrested lawmakers, elected officers, when he is acquitted tomorrow? Can you make amends for his loss from his children, his family, his surroundings, his work? Why are you still doubling his arrest time? So these private security courts that have been set up in place of state security courts, shouldn't they be more healthy, more fair? Shouldn't he be working on time? What do you mean double the arrest? It will be your shame. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is going to be very, very difficult for you. We're very clear. We'll keep talking about it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit03spe0210par0142	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Congressmans, I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three motions on Article 71: This is the 71st draft of the 778-tiered bill. Matter has been changed as follows. Article 71-a has been added to the first joke of Article 37 of Judges and Prosecutors' Law 2802, dated 24/2/1983. Of those who have served for at least eight years in the judicial and prosecutor's profession without the conditions of appointment in the Public Financial Management and Control Law of 5018, dated 10/12/2003 and are deemed to be effective in internal control services with top success, they are appointed by the Minister by the minister, who has been appointed to be his handlers by taking over the Undersecretary's proposal. Such appointees are subject to at least two months of training by the Internal Control Co-ordination Board, and at the end of the training, they are granted a valid public internal auditor's certificate in their administration. İlhan Cihaner Ali Riza Özturk İdris Yıldız The next two motions are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The draft and proposals of Bill number 278 in the current session are 71. We provide and propose the release of the clause. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Erol Dora Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık Fair Wolf Iron Steel Sebahat Tunnel The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat is not afraid I'd like your opinion on two motions of the same nature, Mr. Commissioner.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0211par0031	We don't agree, dear President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0210par0032	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0212par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0213par0034	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0210par0035	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main motive is to speed up the judiciary and reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The changes made in the Law on Justice and Bankruption shall not have contributed to the swift, just, and effective implementation of the judiciary, nor shall our people continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, instead of solving the problem that has been chronicizing over the years with the bill he's brought to Congress, he's also chosen to distract the public by pretending to solve it, pretending to do it. Mr. Akat...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0214par0049	Read the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0210par0050	I'm reading the reason: 3. The judicial package has announced the aim of removing the Special Official Courts, with a new regulation and the name of the residency court being continued at six. The government has decided that the extraordinary judgment must be carried out. It violates the AIHS, the UN Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, and the Constitution violates Article 36 and 90. The Article of the Law must be taken out because it violates the basic laws and Article 91 of the Charter. Congressmans, I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. This is the 71st draft of the 778-tiered bill. Matter has been changed as follows. Article 71-a has been added to the first joke of Article 37 of Judges and Prosecutors' Law 2802, dated 24/2/1983. Of those who have been officially served for at least eight years in the judicial and prosecutor's profession, without the conditions of appointment in the Public Financial Management and Control Law of 5018, dated 10/12/2003, to be appointed by the Secretary of State, who was deemed to be useful in domestic control services with top success. Such appointees are subject to at least two months of training by the Internal Control Co-ordination Board, and at the end of the training, they are granted a valid public internal auditor's certificate in their administration. Ilhan Cihaner (Marine) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0215par0063	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0210par0064	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0216par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0210par0066	Here you are, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0217par0068	I salute everyone. In fact, our original amendment proposal for this clause was that the judges and prosecutors' experience was in line with very intense, heavy working conditions, with an increase in operational service and a improvement in their salaries, but by the bylaws, it was a new supply of matter, which was not agreed, but when a warning came from the Court, we'd make it a separate matter violation, but I'd like to say something about the conditions of the judges and prosecutors' work. Judges and Republican prosecutors may be living under heavy working conditions that have never been seen in any country in the world, and may belong to a professional group that deserves this kind of opportunity most when compared with other professional groups that receive the actual service increase. They're really overwhelmed by professional stress, disease, night, day, and even a workload of work that makes it mandatory to work on the weekend, and they're not getting anything back. The salary hike in 2006 has also melted, and they have lost their earnings at the time. That's why we made such a motion, but on the grounds that I'm talking about, we're bringing it in as a separate substance abuse. I, again, would like to return to this matter of special jurisdictional courts. The law -- if it becomes legal, the motion -- will create a separate chaos, as well as the current investigations in the hands of prosecutors. There's no detailed information on that. There are still dozens of open-ended investigations going on. Their cases have been filed, but there are investigations being held. There's no telling how these investigations are going to end, what court they're going to sue. The chaos this will create, the jurisdictional task chaos that will result in the fact that these investigations are doomed to decades of uncertainty. Therefore, it is also a burden to bear. Now, the weather that has been created in the media since yesterday is the removal of special authority courts. Special authority courts aren't just names or signs. Special authority courts carry a mentality that they inherited from DGM, martial law courts. Antidemocratic provisions, particularly the Anti-Terror Law, that reproduce this mentality. Instead of making arrangements to remove this mentality, which will eliminate this approach of special authorities courts, instead of removing the Anti-Terror Law, transferring the provisions within the CMK would mean re-establishment in a much more powerful and antidemocratic way, not the removal of special competent courts. Not a single change, not a single democratization. In fact, we know later that the motion has been made, in Article 188 of the CMK, with the clause that allows you to make a decision without a lawyer, again, considering the decision to give you sufficient time according to the volume of the file, aside from the removal of the special authority courts, it is clear that the new private court will be established in a much more antidemocratic way. The task with this arrangement, perhaps you don't like it, will be the selection of prosecutors, but the special courts will continue their trial culture from DGM. Therefore, if we want judicial independence, if we want to eliminate the right violations created by special competent courts, it is very simple, the solution is to remove the three articles that are based on the establishment of the Anti-Terror Law and the establishment of special authorities courts. The arrangement is certainly not the removal of special authorities, but rather the re-establishment of antidemocratic courts. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0218par0075	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0219par0078	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit04spe0218par0079	You want roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Koç, Mr. Logogoglu, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Sürmen. Congressmans, we're going to do an electronic check-up. Initiating roll call. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0218par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Y O L A M A The meeting was not enough before the vote of Denizli MP Ilhan Cihaner and his friends' motion on the 71st Article of Law Bill 278. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0220par0017	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0218par0018	You want a poll on the matter. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkoç, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Yüceler, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Yilmamar, Mr. Batum, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Coach, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Sürmen, Mr. Korkurk, Mr. Ekshi. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new interim clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth Article of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the Commission text, but demands to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the Commission has already attended. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and the number of motions laid out in this article may be submitted. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 71 of the Common Law Bill 277. Ilhan Cihaner M. Akif Hamzacebi Bkent Tezcan Article 72-2802 has been changed to article 106 in Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the article ▪ 10% in terms of the declaration of the law. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0221par0043	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0218par0044	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There are three motions on Article 72: The framework of the 778-line bill in question is 72. We propose and propose that the title of Article 33/A of the Kadastro Law, added with Article 3402, shall be changed in the form of a change in the judicial environment of the Cadastro Courts. Intuitive God-like Turgut Dibek Bkent Tezcan Ali Ihsan Kokturk Engin Özkoç The other two motions are the same. So, I'm going to have it read separately and put to a vote together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposed bill number 278 rows (72nd) We provide and propose the release of the clause. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Erol Dora Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık Justice Kurt Ahmet Türk İbrahim Binici The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat is not afraid Do you agree with the last two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0222par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0218par0068	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0223par0069	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0224par0070	Motive... Our constitutional system is defined by the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main reason is to speed up the judiciary and to reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The changes made in the Law on Justice and Bankruption shall not have contributed to the swift, just, and effective implementation of the judiciary, nor shall our people continue to wait for years at the gates of the court. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, instead of solving the problem that has been chronicizing over the years with the bill he's brought to Congress, he's also chosen to distract the public by pretending to solve it, pretending to do it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0225par0083	Mr. Wolf, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0226par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yesterday, there were several conversations backstage. One of these conversations was, more specifically, the subject of the conversation was the 74th article, and everyone was curious. Then there were the rumors that came to us. Why are the ruling party MPs mostly here? They were saying, "Is there a negotiation?" But when we were always talking in the lobby yesterday, we always told friends from the opposition party: "Don't worry, special authorities don't get up. We memorized the mind of this state. This state does not deprive us Kurds of private court without a trial. We know that logic. From 1920 to today, this logic worked in this way. When it was said that there was going to be a cure, it was more serious, so he kept searching for those who had come and gone. So -- let me express our feelings -- we were saying yesterday that even though there was no bill under the name of change, if there was at least one present, it would be worse, coming or being asked to be brought in, much worse than the previous one. 54,000 Kurds were tried in the Supreme Court. 43,000 of them were sentenced to exile and prison sentences, 1,024 were executed. All the courts that followed did the same thing, all the special authorities that were set up. The special court, which was established in 2004, searched the DGM, where it was replaced. Now the trouble is this: the hearing, of course, is that there's nothing that's been reflected in us yet, but these special authorities have attempted to prepare a debate about the three ministers, so now, when power touches power, power is holding its own side aside from this trial. But there's one thing I'm curious about here: Mr. Prime Minister often emphasizes, says everywhere he goes: I have this number of Kurdish lawmakers. I have a friend who is a Kurdish-rooted MP. Now, we know, there's going to be a matter violation of these special authority courts. Since the day it's been called, there's been heavy tides on the left side of the box, there's talks, there's boilers on this side, we know it's boiling. But I wonder, their ancestors were exiled, executed, in the camp of Sivas, in Zilan, in Koçgiri, in Dergim, in the camp of Sivas, in which we now have fellow lawmakers sitting in the ranks of the AKP, their descendants. Do you have no responsibility to address the needs of your own territory, your own people, your own cities where you're supposed to be your own? Have you been elected here to say yes to such freaky practices that only the government put in front of you, the ruling party? Is that why you were elected MP? Did you become a congressman here just to raise your hand to these violent practices, these freak apps, these inhuman practices? Where are you a congressman? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] O Kurdish lawmakers, you Kurdish lawmakers, Kurdish-rooted lawmakers, did you become a deputy here to say yes to the government's tyranny policies against the Kurds of the state? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, that sounds a little light to you. If you keep this up, you deserve what you deserve. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You know, it's not the same thing as chasing a tender and defending the interests of the people, you know? You come up here, you tell the truth.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0227par0094	Know your place! Know your place!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0226par0095	You're the one who doesn't know his place! I know my place.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0227par0096	You don't know!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0226par0097	I know my place very well. If you're here to pursue a bid, this brutality...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0228par0099	Mr. Wolf, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0229par0100	Watch your mouth, watch your mouth!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0228par0101	Guys, please... Mr. Kurt, thank you. Time's up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0230par0105	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0228par0106	There are two motions of the same nature that are required to check before voting, and I'm doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tankulu, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Yüpeer, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Batum, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kören, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Coach, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Gümsel, Mr. Yilmaz. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0231par0118	We'd like a roll call before the matter vote, Mr. President. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0228par0119	Sir, I haven't had the Republican People's Party's motion read yet, so I won't make a roll call. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the 778-line bill in question is 72. We propose and propose that the title of Article 33/A of the Kadastro Law, added with Article 3402, shall be changed in the form of a change in the judicial environment of the Cadastro Courts. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0232par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0228par0126	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0233par0127	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0234par0128	Intuitive God-like...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0228par0129	Dear Godkulu, come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0235par0131	Dear President, dear lawmakers, we are faced with a bill that I am ashamed to read in this House, which I am ashamed of, which is a shame to have to come to this House at this hour. I was a lawyer for 25 years. I have friends here who know I'm a lawyer, people who know. You didn't do it, you were a Treasury lawyer, you came here. I've been a lawyer in martial law courts, I've been a lawyer in State Security Courts, I've done it in private court, I've done it all. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'll teach you, behave, okay, behave, and I'll teach you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0236par0134	Why are you shouting! You behave yourself!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0237par0135	You behave yourself!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0235par0136	This is your deed of shame, a document of shame, a document of shame, okay?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0236par0138	Put your hand down!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0238par0139	Speak up!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0239par0140	Guys, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0141	Look, I'm telling you...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0239par0142	Mr. Godkulu, please report to the House...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0144	Look, I'm telling you, I'm not here to fight... Look, dear friends... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] One second... one second... Dear friends... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Shut up!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0241par0151	Guys, please shut up. Mr. Godkulu, please address the House.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0154	Can you stop the clock? It's been a minute.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0241par0155	We'll add, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0156	Dear friends, look, this is a document of shame. You know what you did, I'll tell you. You know what you're doing? You're not fooling anyone. So far, you've negotiated with the power centers you've partnered with. The courts in Diyarbakir, the courts in Istanbul belong to you, until these cases are over. Orange, stay there! That's your mission, but no more. We'll start our own courts. We've changed the balance of power in HSYK. From now on, we have the balance of power. Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, this is how you came in 2004, in 2004. What are you going to do now? You'll be courting your own party in twenty-nine places, not nine. Is that it, is that it, really it, dear friends, is that really what you want to bring? It's one thing at a time! I've been working on it. Here's my 2004 press release. I've worked, I've paid, I've paid, I've got people paying, I've got people paying. I don't agree with this place. Watch your own fucking price! Is that a thing? Take care of yourself! Why are you bringing this, Mr. Secretary? Why are you bringing him? Why are you bringing him? Look, you know what you said? The one who looks at the mirror will answer...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0242par0160	Please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0243par0161	Turn around!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0162	You look in the mirror, you look in the mirror. They'll make you look in the mirror. You'll look in the mirror.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0242par0163	Dear Godkulu, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0164	Dear friends, you know, there was a newspaper yesterday, and I'm telling you, they count the little one in the fall. They're going to make you count the little one, they're going to make you count the little one, they're going to make you count the little one.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0244par0165	Watch your language!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0166	They will question you, and will question you. It was written yesterday, yesterday, and they'll write tomorrow, and they'll ask you. You must withdraw this law from Article 74. Bring it in, bring it in for democracy, we'll do it together, we'll lift it. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? You'll have your own trial. He's here because he's going to touch you, and you know it. You'll have your own trial. You're spreading special authority courts to Turkey. Everybody knows that, everybody knows that. Dear friends, look, we can make a wrong turn. There's time, there's opportunity. You're doing it wrong. I warn you, in the name of the history of justice and the conscience of justice. I'm warning you as a man who paid a price.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0244par0168	What price did you pay? What did you pay for?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0245par0169	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0170	I'm warning you, I'm warning you, they paid the price. I'm warning you all, okay? I'm warning you all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0246par0171	Please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0240par0172	Don't bring special jurisdictional courts back to us, okay? Don't bring it back. Dear friends, last but not least, do you know when a person dies? The poet said: "When does a man die? In the night when the rose fades, you, now, this evening, kill justice, corrupt society, kill justice, and you will answer for it. That's how you know it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0247par0176	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0248par0179	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0247par0180	You want roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Tankulu, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Kökökturk, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Geysel, Mr. Cierdar, Mr. Acar, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Öz, Mr. Ören, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Tamaylıgilgil. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0249par0194	We'd like a roll call before the matter vote, Mr. President. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0247par0195	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Saribaş, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yüzer, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Acar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Ören, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Özan, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Morogoğlu, Mr. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the 72nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 73: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 73 of the 278 rows of the Law Bill. In the following terms of the clause, the following statements have been made. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the form of a suspended sentence. Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat İbrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're interviewing the 73rd of the 278 rows of the Bill of Law. Article.12.4.1991 of Article No. 3713 of the Anti-Terror Law Article 2. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the form of a suspended sentence. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 73rd Amendment of the 778 rows in sight. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Oktay Vural Faruk Bal Muharrem Varlı Ali İlm Ali Öz Yusef Halaçoğlu Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0250par0226	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0247par0227	Government?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0251par0228	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0247par0229	Yusef Halaçoğlu, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0252par0231	Reverend President, the honorable lawmakers, the word "criminals" is the only word in this article. In fact, the conclusion of this statement in Article 2 of Law 3713 in this last joke is directly consistent with the six and seventh jokes of Law 5237, and therefore we believe that this word was removed, and therefore there is no need to include it here. Because this article says that the person who is a member of the organizations who have been created to achieve the goals set in Article 1 is a terrorist criminal, even if he does not commit or commit a crime alone with others for these purposes. This part stands, and this joke remains. Those who commit crimes on behalf of the organization, even if they are not part of the terrorist organization, are also convicted of terrorism and punished like members of the organization. In fact, when you look at Article 84, the person who commits crimes on behalf of the organisation, while not already a member of the organization, is also punished for membership in the organization. The penalty for membership in the organization can be reduced to half of its sentence. You're actually offering a discount and amnesty to criminal organizations, terrorist organizations, so that it doesn't fall into a recession with Article 84. That's the kind of way you do it so that this pardon doesn't contradict the other one at some point. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to express here in particular: How are you going to identify the person who is now a member of the terrorist organization? I mean, apart from the people you've been involved in, who you call a member of a terrorist organization, how do you determine that, for the first time, a person who's committed a crime on behalf of a terrorist organization is not a member of a terrorist organization? You don't have that right or ability because they're not an association, and they've already been established and served what purpose, and what we call a terrorist is already a person who acts against the law, against the law, against the state, means a man who achieves his own goals with a gun. So, how are you going to determine that someone who committed a crime on behalf of the criminal organization is already out of the terrorist organization, and how are you going to accept it? As you can't, on the other hand, you allow them to be included in the pardon with the 84th article, as you say in another joke, it can be downloaded by one third. And here's what I want to say. Actually, it's just been said by the lawmakers. The Supreme Court and the Special Courts are equitable. No, it's not like that. In fact, the Supreme Court is better than the private court. Why would you say that? You don't have to do that here... by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Sure, you can make your move. Go to the archives of the Turkish National Assembly. There are all the records of the Supreme Courts, and there are signs. The sign says: "The Instruction Court of the Republic of Turkey." It says: "He is afraid of God alone. He fears only God in his struggle." Now, a God-fearing court is likely to have a limitation of itself, but there is no one who is not afraid of God. (EC PARTIES) Because the decision of those who are not afraid of God is as follows: other than reason and reason. If you, as a member of a terrorist organization, have handed over 700,000 armed forces, you will find that this has nothing to do with God's fear. Because those who appointed him were appointed by the Prime Minister and the President's signatures. If this person is a member of a terrorist organization, and they didn't know it, it's a big mistake, and they need to resign immediately, because they need to go to court because they've handed over a 700,000-strong power to such a terrorist -- if he's a terrorist, if he's not a terrorist -- because they'll still have to commit crimes in order to commit crimes. I mean, those who know they're terrorists would have committed the same crime, and that's how it's gonna turn out. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0253par0239	Mr. Halaçoglu, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0254par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0253par0241	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0254par0242	I just gave the speech about the Supreme Court, and my ancestors were massacred in the Imperial Courts. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0253par0243	Does that have anything to do with it?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0254par0244	What does that have to do with anything? He said the Supreme Courts were fairer and fairer, and I thought the Supreme Courts and State Security Courts...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0253par0245	Here you go. Okay.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0255par0246	I mean, Mr. President, why did you promise?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0253par0247	He said it was fairer, he'd make a statement.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0256par0248	Mr. President, are we going to consider the Supreme Court based on someone else's sentence?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0255par0249	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0253par0250	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0257par0253	So the president doesn't need your approval when he promises. I sang it here...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0255par0254	Doesn't mean we shouldn't object.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0258par0255	And we're not gonna tell it to you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0257par0256	...the state security courts are the same, and the private court is the same. If there is a God-fearing court of will, a God-fearing court, which comes to Sason, and is in a hall of law, and is in the 15th place of execution, 15 years from 15 to 90, and then an acquittal after that, I do not know what the fear of God is. Then all of Turkey knows what conditions they hanged Seyit Reza. All the people of Turkey still know how much they call it the fear of God and the persecution of the will courts. May God damn the Supreme Courts, the State Security Courts, the Special Courts, and all the new courts you've brought in, because it brings nothing but trouble to the public.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0255par0257	God damn the traitors.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0258par0258	May God punish those who deal with them.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0259par0259	All records of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey are in the archive of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. Nothing they say is true, and there is no record of execution until that time.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0260par0260	That's taken hold of.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0261par0261	Then read history, who are the victims of history...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0262par0262	"Advention, fabrication!"
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0263par0265	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0264par0266	You want a poll on the motion's vote. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Agebaba, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Sereli, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Yüyüker, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Special, Mr. Tezkan, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Bridgel. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, there are two other motions in the same context that I have them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're interviewing the 73rd of the 278 rows of the Bill of Law. Article.12.4.1991 of Article No. 3713 of the Anti-Terror Law Article 2. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the form of a suspended sentence. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0265par0285	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0264par0286	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0266par0287	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0264par0288	Mr. Akat, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0267par0289	Mr. President, I have the right to a statement on the relevant clause of the proposed bill -- Article 73, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, even if this bill does not belong to TMK's terrorist organization 2/2, those who commit crimes in the name of the organization are also guilty of terrorism. The part remains, but they punish like members of the Party. Of course, there's also a substitute for this clause in the Turkish Penal Code. While not being a member of the organization, the person who commits crimes for the organisation is also punished for the crime of membership in the organization. Now, the bottom line is that you're not being punished as a member of the organization, but as a member of the organization, so you're not going to be part of the organization, you're not going to have a relationship, you're not going to have a hierarchy, you're not going to be connected organically, but you're going to be a member of the organization! In which case, if we put the general concept of the Turkish Penal Code and the Anti-Terrorism, in this case, thousands of BDP members, executives, mayors, deputys, most of them are being tried under this clause, although they are not members of the organisation. In this case, the BDP becomes an organisation, and the executives of the BDP are members of the organisation because it is applied directly to us. Our members, our executives, our mayors and even our deputies. For many of us, the proceedings that are currently pending in parliament are based on the 220/6th article of the Turkish Penal Code, and the TMK has its counterpart. Now here they are punished as members of the terrorist organization. We lift the sentence. This sentence, or Article 2/2 of the Anti-Terror Law, must be removed from the ground. A law freak like that has to stop right now. A paragraph of the same bill, Article 104, must be opened and removed as soon as possible, in response to the TCK. Otherwise, what happens to the precious MPs? We've expressed it over and over again, Turkey is the first. Of course, this is Turkey's first place in education, health, tourism, not its first place in science, culture, technology, but its top place in becoming the country with the most terrorists in it. If such articles exist, the distance Turkey will take from the Anti-Terror Law or the Turkish Penal Code will be even worse than today. Because with this bill, we're also increasing the number of special officials in severe criminal trials. If there will be an increase of 300 per cent, that means that there will be a 300 per cent increase in the number of people tried today. That's what's clear and clear. So, are we going to make a choice? I mentioned in the article I talked about earlier that there's only one thing Turkey has to do: make its choice between freedoms and security perceptions. That's what happens to us if we put our choice on the side of constant security under these conditions. We're going to be a country that extracts these substances, removes these articles of law, and we're going to be a country that judges tens of thousands of people, not hundreds of them. Hakeza is here, considering that our friends, members of the Parliament of Turkey, are also being judged by these articles, and given the fact that our elected parliamentary friends are being judged by these articles, we face the fact that the situation is critical, but there is a choice here, and the AKP has made that choice. When did he do it? He did it in the September 12th referendum. What was that choice? Not freedoms. We've determined this very well, and we've done the necessary, and then we're ready to stop living and fighting together... and you've stopped fighting, and you've chosen to live with these laws. In these matters, you chose to live with this truth at the point of becoming the most limited country in the world to freedom of expression, and you are now trying to resolve the consequences of this choice by setting uncertain arrangements for this bill. He's not a member of a human organization, but you'll consider him a member of the organization, but you'll consider it a favor to him not to punish him as a member of the organization! Is that a thing? Now let's ask what happened when you punished him. The fill rate in the prison has increased by 200 percent in your time. What happened when you punished him? People didn't go out on the street? People didn't express their thoughts? He didn't mention freedom? He didn't defend equal, free life? He argued more, and you have to look at one thing to see that, and he's looking at prisons. We'll consider that in Article 75. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0268par0299	Thank you, Mr. Akat. On behalf of the other motion holders, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0269par0302	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, our Minister has made a commitment after my speech. In fact, I said that the motion given by lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party on Article 74 is the same as the provisions of the Law on Criminal Accounting 250, 251, 252, or some of the provisions of the existing Anti-Terror Law. In fact, I told you so you wouldn't have to bother until I got to the joke about where the stuff was and what it was. You bother, you read, it's obvious who's making false statements. It seems the Justice and Development Party's idea of law enforcement and technique is transport, which means moving the existing provisions elsewhere. Either you're moving a house to a cottage or you're moving it to a winter house? It's like moving stuff out of a house.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0270par0305	It's not transport.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0269par0306	Don't talk too much, do as I say, see if it's true or not! See if it's the same to the point, up to the decimal. I mean, you guys don't know any lawmaking techniques. If you don't know at all, ask, ask others. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Secretary, at least if your bureaucrats don't know, then change those bureaucrats. Friends, look, here, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ: these special authorities are courts that shouldn't be in a normal state of law. He said and went on, saying that these courts were born out of necessity. So he said it would be redesigned once the need was gone. It seems that the need for these courts has not been removed. So the need for courts that shouldn't be in a normal legal state continues because Turkey isn't a normal law state, so we get that. It is naive, my dear friends, to believe that Turkey is a normal state of law under the rule of the Justice and Development Party. In his speech at ATV, he said that these special courts were the continuation of state security courts and were replaced. We've been saying this so far, the AKP people have been saying: these are occupational courts. The Prime Minister says that these courts have been replaced by the DGMs. And they're even moving forward, Mr. Prime Minister says that these courts have become monsters. Now, my dear friends here, I want to say it very simply, the Prime Minister said: "It's not the right way to make an arrest." The European Court of Human Rights is against special authorities, and he said very clearly: "Let's take these things from here, let's take them through these special authority courts. Let's move them into the Anti-Terror Code." My dear friends, in fact these special authority courts, as the Prime Minister said, are the courts that carry the spirit of the state security courts. In Articles 250, 251, 252, the spirit of state security courts continues. The special authorities of state security courts are the courts based on the law of the state. So both the state security courts and the private court are courts based on the state's law rather than on the individual's free law, the citizen's law. With the arrangement now made, these courts will again be based on the law of the state, my dear friends. Now, what's done here, when CMK 252 is examined, is not only the names of the courts have been changed. At least he changed his name when the government jumped from security to private authority. In fact, it's my duty to understand that the special authority of the special authorities has changed... whether or not the special jurisdiction of the Special Court has been eliminated. You picked him up and moved him here, so you moved some of the stuff from your house to the other side. My dear friends, the President of the Justice Commission is a person I love. Does this law-making technique suit itself? He also published a brochure called "Law Don't Do It." I'm asking my fellow lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party if such a law is the right technique? Does this proposal really suit you, my dear friends? Mr. Sezgin Godkulu said: "This is a declaration of shame." I'm telling you guys, a million embarrassing documents, a letter of shame in the name of the law. Whether you're ashamed or not, it's your business to know, but as a lawyer, I don't say it politically, without any legal technique, without any law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ashamed as a lawyer of this motion that jumps from substance to substance. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0271par0319	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I will submit two motions of the same nature to your votes.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0272par0323	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0271par0324	There's a request for roll call, and I'm doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Oran, Mr. Batum, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Young, Mr. Geysel, Mr. Değirmendereli, Mr. Öğütün. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0273par0338	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0271par0339	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Agebaba, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Young, Mr. Acar, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Batum, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öztrak. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit Article 73 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on article 74, I'm having them read...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0274par0351	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement regarding the motions in Article 74, and I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0275par0352	We have a request, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0274par0353	The motion of the Justice and Development Party Group on Article 74 cannot be discussed according to the Civil Code provisions, sir. First of all, the clause contained in this motion is to move the Article 250, 251 and 252 of the Penal Code into the relevant Article of the Anti-Terror Law, into a clause. Articles 250, 252, or 252, of Articles of the Law on Punishment are related to Articles 250, 252, of the Law on Punishment. However, the Commission's text directly relates to the Anti-Terror Law. As you all know, the special authorities entered the Constitution of 1961 under the name of the State Security Court in 1973, after a three-year exercise was lifted in 1976, then reinstated in 1983, and were re-established under the name of the special authorities under the name of the Supreme Court of Justice and Development, with a amendment in 2004, under the name of the second Government of Justice and Development. The essence of this court is the State Security Court, except that there is no military judge in it. Right now, it's basically a continuation of the concept of the State Security Court, nothing more. It's just a make-up, it's moving from place to place. Therefore, this article, which contains an regulation of Articles 250 and 252 of the Penal Code, cannot be discussed within a clause related to the Anti-Terror Law, and this is the first. Second: According to Article 87 of the Civil Code, amendments cannot exceed 500 words, including grounds. 808 words are still more than 500 if you drop the bonds; it is contrary to the 87th article of the Civil Code, which is impossible to discuss.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0276par0358	Thank you, sir, you've made your point.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0277par0359	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0278par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0276par0361	I'll give it to you. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0279par0364	The claims of Mr Hamzacebi are not true.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0280par0365	Sir, if you'll excuse me, let the objectors do the thing first and then you can answer it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0279par0366	First of all, the number of words in our proposal has been reduced to 500, with your initial, there is no problem there. The second issue is, when we look at article 74 of the draft text passed by the Justice Commission, there is a provision that regulates Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law, a clause that makes changes there, and the motion that we have made is a provision that stipulates a change in Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law -- along with its title. So, a proposal that is related, connected, and completely changing the same subject, there is no problem with our proposal, we propose that negotiations continue.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0281par0368	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0282par0370	Mr. Kaplan asked me first.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0281par0371	Excuse me, Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0283par0372	Mr. President, according to Article 87 of the Civil Code, the proposed bill or proposal...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0284par0373	Mr. President, can the microphone be used, please?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0283par0374	...a new law offering, which brings additional and change in the non-concerned laws, cannot be processed, is introduced in the form of a new substance violation, which is different in its course. Now, we really need to pay attention to this: The 10th article of the Anti-Terror Law here brings in a method of judgment when it is noted. The Anti-Terror Law was passed in 1991, then the Penal Code was passed in 2004, 2005, and then the 10th article was changed in 2006. So it was changed in 2006. After the amendment was made in 2006, I'd like to point out, Mr. President, that as of the final form of Article 10 of this article, there is a clear case: other provisions are carried out in matters that do not apply in Articles 250 to 252 of the Penal Code. However, there are a number of jokes about the danger of the investigation, the time of doubt and detention, the defence's law, the defence's hearing, and the contents of the document. These three or four issues are extremely important, but each of them involves a different fundamental law. One is concerned with the Penal Code 250, 251, 252. Since there is a motion for a amendment, we have a proposal for the removal of Article 250, 251, 252 of the CMC, which has not been submitted to the Commission. One: In terms of procedure, in terms of the Civil Code, this law has created a situation in which our proposal should come and be renegotiated in the Commission, since it is a motion in accordance with our proposal. The second issue is particularly related to an arrangement by the EC PARTY governments. It's the right arrangement, but it's not implemented, it doesn't live in practice, it doesn't apply to any court; it's the 90th article of the Constitution. This is the right thing to do during the ten-year period of power by the EC PARTY governments, but what has never been implemented is the 90th article of the Constitution. What is it? The international contracts in accordance with the Parliament's procedure are above the law in internal law, which is above the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights. So when you put a CMC change into this law, when you assemble it, you violate a universal principle called the equality of guns, the equality of the weapons of the argument and the weapons of the defense. So once the prosecutor starts investigating, the lawyer won't be given time. There's a constraint here, a limitation of the right to defend. However, the Constitution is entitled to a fair trial in Article 36. That's where he refers to the contract, and that's what the Constitution says in 90. Now, when we look at the change here, Mr. President, it's not only that, but there's a case of trial, including the TCK provisions, and most importantly, when you read the reason, it says, "The reason is that the reason is that the CMC 250, 251, 252 has been removed." But that's not in the motion, it's not in there. So there's no indication that the motion is conflicted, inconsistencies... that 250, 251, 252 are up in motion. One of them is a special authority court, and the others contain judicial procedures. If you don't remove these by law, by Parliament's will, you're going through a very dangerous process here. Instead of making laws, legislature, instead of presenting the work of the courts with the law, it gives its authority to the government, to run it. What's that? He'll hand it over to the Ministry and to the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors. No Parliament, no legislative will, will hand over its authority in this way.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0285par0379	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0283par0380	That's a dangerous subject. Now, when we look from here, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0285par0383	Sir, may I ask... the result... the result, the result...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0283par0384	Now, Mr. President, in the direction of the CMK, two, in the direction of the TK; three, in the direction of the mission, there are ten counts here. Each one of them needs to be put into a technical arrangement as a separate matter violation. A motion does not include a mass bag proposal because there are different provisions, different practices, execution procedures and decisions. Therefore, this motion cannot be processed. The Constitution contains different substances that are contrary to the Constitution. The government can do this, and I'll suggest a shortcut again: First, let's make a motion on this clause based on 74. Let's say that we're removing special authority courts. Oh, and after that, have him bring what's in his head, different substances, as a new clause to the Commission. The commission has a majority, it has power, it has numbers, and no one intends to leave. A proper procedure would be correct in terms of the legal technique. One mistake cannot be corrected, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0285par0385	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0283par0386	This is a very dangerous situation.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0285par0387	Mr. Kaplan, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0286par0389	Yes, Mr. President, of course, the law we're discussing, so we'll certainly express our views on this change, but we're negotiating a fundamental law. Why did this fundamental law come about? According to the Civil Charter 91, there is an obligation to protect the integrity of the area in which it is established and the connections between the substances, so it is not a motion that has been made with such obligation. And since it's not, I think it would be better if the Commission took this motion and evaluated it and then downloaded it to the General Assembly. I mean, he doesn't provide that obligation. Sure, we've got something to say about the weather. It's actually here, so 250, 251 is made to look like it's been removed, but since it's obvious that it's the one that hasn't been removed, we're bringing it. There could be a contradiction here, a gap. In that regard, wouldn't it be better if the Commission -- I don't know -- took this motion or the clause and then presented it to the General Assembly? So let's have an evaluation on the commission. It's an important arrangement, you can appreciate that. Let the Commission withdraw the clause, discuss it; in the meantime, we'll discuss other provisions, the Commission will make these assessments and then we'll be able to resolve it... that way it might be better. And, Mr. President, it's a very comprehensive change. I mean, really, Mr. Arinc said that in the middle of the night, we weren't going to bring them in with the motions. As the National Movement Party, we have already expressed our views on this matter, but I repeat our objections to the fact that it was brought in in such a form of legislation. Maybe we can do a healthier evaluation. With just one motion, the fact that such an important issue is handled by a proposal that would lead to a wide range of polemics, controversy, in such a manner, is not incompatible with the seriousness and importance of the event. It's a very important change. It's an argument, you can appreciate. Then what needs to be done is to refer to the weight of this argument, just not limit it to a motion. I think it would be more appropriate for him to consider it a matter interview. If the commission pulls in and makes an assessment of it, maybe we can move on to the other clauses, your Commission... which means it can be met tonight, and it can continue. That's all I'm saying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0287par0392	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0288par0393	Mr. President, in fact, let the Commission take this clause back. What kind of a mess is that?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0287par0395	One second... one second, sir...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0289par0396	Mr. President, the term has been expressed.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0288par0397	Sir, let the Commission take the matter and rearrange it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0287par0398	Guys, wait a minute... Mr. Ahmet, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0290par0400	Mr. President, my group vice president friends have expressed their affections, and we have expressed...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0291par0401	That's not a substance!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0290par0402	First of all, the number of words in the motion has been reduced to five hundred, one of them. Secondly...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0292par0403	E spoke, and now he's talking about the second, Mr. President. You don't give it here, why are you giving it there?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0293par0404	I don't understand. Can you shut up for a second? I can't hear you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0294par0406	And the second, Mr. President... the second...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0295par0407	He did, but he did. Why are you giving it to him for the second time, he's spoken!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0294par0408	Yeah, why are you yelling? Guys, wait a second... we've been listening to you, look, you've been talking for half an hour.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0295par0409	So after Mr. Akif, he spoke, explaining the same matter. Then why are you giving it to me?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0296par0410	Well, sir, why are you shouting?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0295par0411	Yes, Mr. President, Friend spoke after Mr. Akif. He talked, but Friend talked.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0296par0412	If necessary, if Hamzacebi wants to speak again, we'll promise him. You take it easy, sir. Yes, Mr. Ahmet, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0297par0414	Mr. President, the second issue: Look, Article 74 of the draft text passed by the Justice Commission states that the Article 10 of Law No. 3713 is a provision that regulates Article 10 of Law. The motion that we have brought is related to the exact same clause, a motion that changes the 10th Article of Law 3713. So, technically, there's no legal problem, and we'd like to see the negotiations resume as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0296par0416	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0298par0417	Mr. President, this motion is more than 500 words, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0296par0418	Sir, they pulled back, and now there are no more than 500 words.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0299par0419	They pulled the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0298par0420	Wait... when was this taken, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0299par0421	Is that a motion, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0300par0422	Here it is, sir, if you'll come and see it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0298par0423	No, when was it taken?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0301par0424	It wasn't proposed, it was reduced to five hundred.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0302par0425	If the motion has been withdrawn...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0303par0426	The reason for the motion has been reduced to 500 words.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0304par0427	Mr. President, when was it downloaded? It didn't reach us.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0303par0428	It didn't reach me either, but it was downloaded here. When was it downloaded?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0305par0429	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0304par0430	Mr. President, can we have a meeting like this? Can we have a meeting like this, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0305par0431	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0306par0432	Disperse again, sir. Over.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0304par0433	Mr. President, sir, just a second... Mr. President, we can't possibly accept this.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0306par0434	It's down to five hundred.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0307par0435	Mr. President, the signature on the paragraphs is my signature.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0304par0436	Mr. President, if you promise me, sir, I haven't finished.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0306par0437	You spoke, sir. Excuse me for a minute. Mr. Gardendoor, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0308par0439	I'm the one who shortened the number of words in the amendment motion for the EC PARTY and initialed it, signed it, and I did it half an hour ago. For your information.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0306par0441	Disperse now, sir. It's down to 500, it's fine there, Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0309par0442	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you. I'm gonna stop talking and...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0306par0443	Sir, you will speak. One second, sir, one second!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0310par0444	What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0306par0445	I'll promise. I said Mr. Hamzacebi, just a second...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0310par0446	Why are you yelling? Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0306par0448	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit05spe0310par0449	I'll scream! Why are you yelling here? What are you yelling at me for?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0306par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I'm opening a legal debate over the appeals issued by lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party on Article 74 under the provisions of the Civil Code. I'll promise you two in favor and two against each other.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0311par0007	Mr. President, let each group express their opinion. I'll speak against it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0306par0008	I promise one person in each group. In favor of my attitude, Mr. Aydın, against Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Vural, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0312par0009	Mr. President, they've brought in a clause that says that in the third article (b), whatever its adjective, the prosecution's investigation is something. According to this, the MPs, the government, the minister, these, the prosecutors can investigate, sir. So if any of the friends who wrote this motion can read, open, read, and you can read, sir. Look, he says that due to the limited number of crimes against him, investigations and prosecutions are not subject to leave, no matter the role or adjective of the accused.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0306par0010	Mr. Young, we've had a formal discussion. If you'll excuse me, sir, I'll start the discussion.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0312par0011	Sir, it's a formal argument, but I mean, they've hidden things here. Fethullah Gülen instructed them, and he said, "Bring them like this."
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0306par0012	Yes, sir. Mr. Aydın, please come in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0313par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Of course, there's been a lot of motions in the last few days, and we've been meeting and voting all of those motions here in some way, but when it came to this motion, unfortunately, it was against the law, in an unfair way that the motion was not to be discussed. Mr. President, I have made a promise in favor of your attitude. First of all, of course, there was a claim here that he had exceeded five hundred words in connection with the amendment motions. Of course, we've reduced the motion we've already submitted to five hundred words, along with the paraffy of our group's co-chair friend, before we even started meeting. Now, when we look at the 87th article of the Civil Charter, which sets the amendment proposals, it is stated that the amendment proposals are given on grounds. If the amendment proposals and grounds are more than 500 words, the motion maker must add a summary that does not exceed 500 words. It may be a thousand words, but after we add a summary that does not exceed 500 words, there is no problem, there is no harm. It has always been done before and until now, and so has the Civil Code. Second thing: Again, our valued group vice president friends have told us that there is no correlation to the motion here, as to the clause we discussed in the General Assembly. Thus, such a proposal cannot be made. And that's completely wrong because when we look at Article 74 of the bill we're discussing, the statement there is exactly as follows: Article 10 of Article 10 of Law 3713 (c) and (d) benches have been changed in the following way. • Article 74 is a substance that defines the 10th article of the Anti-Terror Law. What does the amendment offer suggest? When we look at the amendment proposal, dear friends, it has been changed in the following way, along with Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law, #3713. • The draft text, Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law, is a proposal that changes the 10th Amendment itself. If you do not accept such a motion, what other motion will be accepted, and what other motion can we discuss here? Dear friends, the same way... of course, the motive can be written in a different way, the motive can be written, drawn, but the motion is valid, a legal motion. Technically and legally, there's nothing wrong with it. Besides, we have another motion to add a joke on the interim Article 2 of the bill. There are also articles on the removal of 250, 251. I express that I'm in favor of the President's position, and so -- and so many negotiations have gone on -- and I immediately demand that the negotiations resume where they left off, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0314par0027	Thank you. Against you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0315par0030	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... Mr. President, first of all, I made a request inside that this conversation period be five minutes, but you didn't answer. So I took the five-minute request because you agreed to it, but you gave it to me in three minutes.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0314par0032	We can raise it to five if you like, sir, no problem. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0315par0034	Of course, since my predecessor spoke for three minutes, I'll speak for three.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0314par0035	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0315par0036	So our conversations must be sincere, we must keep our promises, sir. Dear lawmakers, what is being done here is a very important change, a very important system change. State security courts were established in 1973, lifted in 1976, re-established in June 1983 after the 12 September regime; in 2004, one of your governments was renamed and re-established by a special authority court. The purpose of the change in 2004 was to dominate your courts. The purpose of removing the military judge and turning it into a special authority court was to take control of these courts. But over the course of time, I think, you didn't have control, you didn't, whatever, I don't know; now you want to appoint your own courts, your own judges, your own prosecutors. ▪ The judge of freedom is what you do under the name of the prosecutor of freedom, creating your own judicial system, nothing more. That's what we object to. You bring such an important arrangement, an arrangement that will upset the system, and until now, you hide it until now; you don't share it with us, you don't share it with the public. At the last minute, you're handing it out to us an hour or two ago, that's what we're going to do. Is this democracy? Is that transparency? Is that the right to speak to the opposition? I thought you said special jurisdictional courts were taking off. Some of you have said that these courts have completed their function. Mr. Minister of Justice comes out and says, "No, we've told the public the truth." No, Mr. Secretary, I'll take those sentences out one by one. A group of your vice presidents have completed the function of these courts. A minister said these courts don't happen in democracies. If you bring the same courts, the same understanding into the Anti-Terror Law, can you tell the citizen, the nation, that I have told the truth? You didn't tell the truth. Dear friends, we will oppose this clause to the fullest. Look, let's get this stuff out of here, let's leave it for the new era of life. Don't bring this stuff. Don't put it on commission and make it legal. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0316par0042	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0317par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it's been discussed in Turkish public for a long time. It's a very important issue, like real justice is the foundation of property, with a five-minute limit to a motion, which we can't even negotiate because there's a fundamental law in it. So we're critical of the nationalist Movement Party, which is to make such an important issue for all of us concerned with the rights of the law and for Turkey in accordance with such a shantyhouse of law enforcement. It's not right. The motion is more than five hundred words, others... of course, the reason is that it can be read in less than five hundred words, all of which can be corrected, we don't have to discuss that, but we're discussing a justice issue. So, as those of you who have a spiritual view of how important an hour of justice is, is it possible to bring such a matter here and confirm it with your fingers to the right point or not? In that sense, we have to think about it. I said it would be appropriate for us to make a mistake here as a healthy act of law, thinking about who would cost them their lives, who would destroy their sense of justice. So we're not really on vacation, folks, we're working tomorrow, we're here as the National Movement Party Group. We'll work the day after tomorrow, we'll work the next day. In this case, perhaps it is necessary for the Commission to withdraw this clause. After we make a healthy assessment of the issues taken from the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which are called on by the Commission, the Ministry and the concerned, let's discuss the following issues, let's keep the executive part, and the one who is interrupted remains, and then we'll finish tomorrow -- we'll discuss the other laws -- and then we'll get back to that. If there's a peace between us, if there's a right place to contribute, we'll provide it. A lot of people are looking at it. Everyone's wondering what's gonna happen, what's gonna happen, whether it's gonna end or not. Just now, no matter what the adjective of a congressman, I wonder if there's an exception for those who will be tried in the Supreme Court... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as well as some concerns about whether or not the MPs would be in trouble. In that sense, if we adopt such a method, we will make a healthier law, we will serve better, we will contribute, and the government's opinion and opinions on this matter... says the Minister: I have no right to speak. My dear friends, I have been able to say these things in three minutes. We think it's helpful to prepare a special environment that we need to think about, even if the Minister can't make a speech about something this important, that he can't explain, that he's suffering from it, that he's suffering from it. I present our views to the High General Assembly in this direction and to you, Mr. President. It's important. So let's put our hands on our conscience. I don't think any of you want anyone to be wronged. There shouldn't be such a thing as that. You can also block some criticism that we can give you. You have this opportunity. So you should also be offended that a court is described like the AKP court. Mr. President, I'm sorry, I can only express this in three minutes, but there's so much to talk about. We wish all the MPs would consider it on the Commission, explain it, and we think it would be better if we went to a healthy conclusion, but thanks, of course, to the Supreme General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0318par0053	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0319par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before all of you, I invite the Prime Minister, the government, the concerned ministers to keep their promise to the people of Turkey, 75 million people. We will remove the special authorities. You have promised. We invite you to keep that promise. If you keep this promise, call it open, and the motion you have brought to you has been removed from the table 250-251-252. If you're going to do this, consider all parties in the House. Look, we have an offer on the law that's about to be lifted. We're offering legislation -- it's not reduced to the Commission, it's not discussed in the Commission, it's not discussed in the Commission; it's bypassed with a motion here. What kind of a thing is that, guys? Is this the Law, the Civil Code, the Law? It's not. You're making another mistake here. Mr. Kamer Young has pointed something out here, so think about it. Robespierre made a law too, but did you know that Robespierre's head went through that guillotine law? You put a clause here, and you say that the Turkish Penal Code is this, even if they're in charge of these articles, even if they're not, prosecutors can start a direct investigation.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0320par0057	And the Prime Minister's orders.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0319par0058	Look, this is a very dangerous thing. The prime minister was tried in the State Security Court, convicted. There are no parties, no parties that don't pass the coup on September 12th, no parties that don't pass the martial law. We've all been through this, these pains. Still, let's fix this. When I say in this country, I wonder if a party with the right to uphold law, democracy, fair trial, right to defend justice, justice, justice, and justice will see much of it. Who are you... I mean, let go of the urge to protect the state, protect the nation, protect the individual, protect the citizen, protect the right. He said something to Mr. Healing: these courts consider themselves like God. It's exactly like that, I agree, these courts see themselves above God, so we need to get them in line, we need to get these courts in line. These courts should not be above the will of this House. Every day, the courts, which are cruel to the citizen, have to close their doors, their homes are raided by special teams, their children's children's children's children's views. It's a very serious mistake, we agree. Let them take back the motion, we'll discuss it in the Commission, we'll do what's necessary, you stand by your word, and we'll make a contribution. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0321par0061	We keep our word.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0322par0062	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0323par0063	They want to speak to Mr. Good. One moment, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0324par0065	Dear President, I salute the General Assembly. For one thing, I'm a friend of mine who prefers not to make a statement about the news of myself in the press, unless I have to, and I never use the podiums for myself. In my scientific studies, I have suggested that one of the fundamental dynamics that stopped the development of freedom in Turkey was that the judiciary did not take freedom on the basis of its true duty in making decisions, and I have criticised that in science, I have criticised the rule of power on the basis of judicial activism, and more severe judges than custody. But in terms of my beliefs and values, I don't have a soul structure, especially not a sense of grace and kindness that would use the name of Almighty God to explain any human or system weakness, and I didn't use that kind of complement, but I didn't use that complement. I want my High General Assembly to know that. And it's also about the concrete problem... because, although the issue of procedure debate is a subject that gives you a personal say, which parties cannot have as a group, but I would like to share with you my opinion on the matter, both in order to benefit the Parliament's history and in the future these concrete problems. Dear friends, the Turkish Parliament is not really an institution and an organ that has yet to make its law complete and complete.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0325par0069	I mean, there's no higher Parliament!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0326par0070	Does he need custody? In your custody?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0324par0071	We are governed by the 1972 Charter, and a serious need for reform arises from these discussions. But in solving the concrete problem, of course, the evolutionary mind of these problems needs to be expressed, as well as the thought of the process. He is, dear friends, here, once, one of the main powers of Parliament is the ability to save. It is the principle that there is no limitation on the issues in which he meets other than the Constitution and the Civil Law. That's what the General Assembly's agenda is, and that's what that principle means. What's the situation with the concrete problem? I'm not looking at content, I'm not reviewing content, I'm explaining the parameters of Parliament's law: according to our Civil Code, there is no limit to the General Assembly on the draft or proposals in the Commission text. One: In the Commission text, there are both provisions related to the Penal Code and the terror law, including the Penal Code -- 250 and its sequel to 253. More than that, these substances have references to each other, legal analogies. There's no limit to the subject. Two: 500 words is very important. In particular, an unlimited obstruction of Anglo-Saxon law -- the obstruction -- was sought to be obstructed by the Law of Black Europe. For example, a novel was read in this Parliament for a clause, a matter discussion was not over for days, and a lesson was learned from it and a 500-word limit was brought in, but for what? He was brought in for motive. The spelling is incomplete, it says in the text. That would be wrong. Why? Because the norm can set up the legislature from one sentence to one hundred pages. Norm cannot intervene in the Civil Code, the 7th article of our Constitution has a very clear, horizontal effect. In this scope, it is possible for Parliament to discuss this, but in my rationality, it is my wish that such basic motions be passed through processes and debates, but there is no legal reason for such a motion to be made by the General Assembly. There is one thing, Mr. Kamer said, since there has been no record of concealment in Article 83, Article 100, and there has been no record of concealment in Article 100, is it possible that they may be active suspects or suspects in this case, without the will of the legislators and ministers, because of this review, because of this reason, there is a principle of irreparability, irresponsibility for tasks? Friends, it is not possible to eliminate the concrete collateral brought by the Constitution by the law, it is called the horizontal effect of the Constitution, Article 11 of the Constitution. Because of the concrete effect, the Constitution provides this guarantee directly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0327par0080	The situation of Chief of Staff İlker Basbug is clear.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0324par0081	Friends, there is the interpretation of the judicial body due to the normative conflict between the Article 148, the Article of our Constitution -- both the Constitution norm -- Article 145, of the Constitution. We, in terms of lawmakers, in terms of ministers...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0327par0082	E will be fine here, too.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0324par0083	I do, I do. It's not here, there's no different verdict. The Minister's investigation depends on Parliament's permission, there is no constitutional norm. Sir, the Commission has the right to appreciate a matter that has come to the General Assembly. I'm supplying. I thought I'd do it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0327par0085	I also want to know if the Commission can get this clause back. Are you authorized to do that?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0324par0086	Legally, it's possible.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0327par0087	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0324par0088	Legally, it's possible. I give you a lot of respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0327par0090	If you make what is legally possible possible possible possible in terms of the quality of legislation, all those words will be appreciated. On the one hand, you're teaching the General Assembly legislation, and on the other hand, you don't want this clause back to ensure the quality of legislation as a Commission, it's a contradiction. Use your authority.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0324par0091	Well, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0328par0092	Mr. President, Mr. Ahmet has made a lot of statements, and I thank him. In any case, you didn't anticipate a deadline, but while we were discussing such an important matter, you appreciated a three-minute period of time. In such an important article, you denied us the opportunity, even though there was a ten - minute promise to us according to the Civil Code. For some reason, it's different when it's the government's turn, when it's the Commission's turn, when it's your scale, when it's our turn, Mr. President. I don't make an assessment of why Mr. Nice has spoken so much. I wish that anyone who wants to speak as much as possible, that I would not interfere, that you would give him a say. I'd be happy to give the ministers, the ruling party MPs, the members of the group, the right to say more, the right to say more. I've never objected to that, but your general stance has been that you have no tolerance for opposition party spokesman. Even in this conversation we just had, I asked you to promise you five minutes inside. You didn't call me no. Silence comes from a plea. So you agreed to five minutes. Then you come up here and give it to me in three minutes, and you break your promise. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. Look, these don't look good.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0096	I've never heard you ask me for five minutes, one. Two, you can talk for five minutes if you want, Mr. Hamzacebi. It's about doing the right thing. I didn't intend to, but usually it's two or three minutes in the procedural debate, so we have no other intention.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0330par0098	We said five minutes inside, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0099	If you'd like, go ahead again... so it's not like you said, it's not like you asked me for five minutes and it's not my peace. He called me Mr. Canikli. Friends can talk for five minutes. I said three, they said three. We give five to anyone who wants five, it doesn't matter; it's important that we do the right thing.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0331par0100	Mr. President, didn't I ask you to do this for five minutes inside? You didn't say no.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0101	I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0332par0102	Give me two more minutes.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0333par0103	Mr. President, if the Chief of General Staff has been taken and arrested by special courts despite the clear decree of the Constitution... now the Commissioner says: "Sir, there is the Constitution." Especially if you leave them in the discretion of the judges, the judges will not listen to the constitution. Here, he'll take the MP tomorrow as well as the Chief of Staff. So, please, let Parliament take over, and let's make this clear here. Otherwise, when you put him in court, when you left him with the judge, he took the Chief of Staff. The Constitution has an open sentence, and the Constitutional Court must judge it. I don't listen to the Constitution. So, if we don't specify here, then if you leave it to the judge's discretion, the judge will do whatever he thinks he does. I'm asking you specifically, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0104	Thank you, Mr. Young. Now, if it's a review of your friends here, I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0334par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0107	Mr. Hasip, please... The second amendment of Article 3713 to Article 3713 is being changed, while the 10th amendment to Article 3713 is being made to the 10th amendment to Article 3713. It is also noted that the Article 3713 referred to the crimes involved in the Law, and thus the framework of duty and judicial action in the cases brought against it, as well as to the Turkish Penal Code and to the Law on Criminal Accounting. Therefore, I am not changing my position on the processing of the motion under Article 87 of the Civil Code. If you'll excuse me, I'll file the motion.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0335par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0336par0111	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0112	Please, Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0336par0113	Mr. President, look, I have something important to offer.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0337par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0115	Mr. Kaplan, you've explained, you've spoken, I beg you... if you'll allow me to continue this attitude. [[Continue]] Here you go. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Seed 278 Rows Numbered...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0338par0124	Mr. President, I'm sorry, it's against the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0125	Please, Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0339par0126	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0338par0127	Let me tell you something, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0128	Look, your Deputy Director of the Group has spoken. Please, please, Mr. Tanal... Yes, please. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Seed 278 Rows Numbered... Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0340par0133	Mr. President, this can't happen!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0341par0134	What kind of disrespect is that? It's read without consuming anything, what kind of approach is that?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0135	Now, it has nothing to do with disrespect, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0340par0136	Mr. President, not like this!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0137	Four people, five people have spoken, we have nothing to do.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0342par0139	We wanted a promise, Mayor!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0340par0140	Mr. President, we want a word here.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0141	There's nothing to be done, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0342par0143	Don't you understand what we're saying? That's not an approach! For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit06spe0329par0144	I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0329par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. There are four motions on Article 74 of the bill, and I'm having it read.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0343par0006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0344par0007	Mr. President, just now... ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In an attempt to activate Judicial Services 278 rows that are being held... Mr. President, you just did the same thing.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0345par0011	Wait a second... Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0344par0013	Mr. President, when we were just demanding a statement, you told us to read it to Mr. Secretary, without saying yes or no. We're having a discussion here, and I don't think I've come up with an approach that goes beyond the bounds of respect when a group of vice presidents are demanding a statement, Mr. President. I don't think so, quite frankly, one.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0345par0015	Okay, may I have a word, Mr. Kaplan?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0344par0016	Secondly, I would like to state that we, the Peace and Democracy Party, have offered the removal of the special competent courts of the CMK, 250, 251, 252. We've expressed this in the commission, and we've asked for this to be covered, but we've only been offered the law on IT crimes, the wiretaps, it hasn't been put in place and it hasn't been discussed in the Commission. The transcripts will be examined by lawyers in the future. We're a party that wants these courts removed, we have a signature, we have an offer, but we're excluded, we're ignored in the parliamentary and legislative process, and the Commission has a position on issues that are not discussed in the Commission, and we want to say that this approach is wrong. When we don't do that, there's tension, Mr. President, when these words and these Civil Code laws don't apply. I don't think it would be good for your health or ours. I mean, really...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0346par0019	Sir, he's on the books. My opinion, Mr. Kaplan, is that it has nothing to do with your person or your proposal, when you open up a discussion of procedure, you know, in favor of four people speaking against you, you conclude one...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0344par0021	So don't make us open up the conversation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0346par0023	No, I don't intend to. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0347par0025	Mr. President, this is the bill that is coming to us right now... and you'll appreciate the Article 38 of the Civil Code that says: "If the proposal or the bill is contrary to the Constitution's text and spirit, it will be rejected without negotiation." Now, in this framework, when we looked at this bill, in the past, we would always say that this state security court would take its source from Article 143 of the Constitution. Under the removal of Article 143 of the Constitution, the state security courts, which were its basis, were cancelled. Instead, of course, what happened then? In 2005, 250, 251, 252 came along with the Penal Code. However, it is a new kind of court that is now being brought in, and this new kind of court... you can appreciate that the 142th article of the Constitution is also a basis for the establishment of general courts. However, since the Constitution, which is the basis of the special authority courts, has been imposed on Article 143, this bill is in violation of the Constitutional provisions; two, at the same time, the republic's attorney can investigate, regardless of its adjective. It also touches these MPs. What does that mean? This constitutes a complete discrepancy with Article 83. My request from you is this, my request from the commission: I demand that this bill be withdrawn immediately, without negotiation, because it violates the spirit of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0348par0028	Thank you. What you said has been contained. There's been a formal debate. We've listened to our group presidents. Now, if you'll excuse me, after I get the opinion of the Laws and Decisions, I will proceed without any change in my attitude. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0349par0032	Dear President, you...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0350par0034	That's enough!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0349par0035	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I haven't made any demands regarding your attitude. I, as a full parliamentarian, ask you because the bill that comes before us is against the spirit of the Constitution, which is in your power.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0351par0036	Sir, I've listened to you. He's in control, Mr. Tanal. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0352par0038	Mr. President, can the Turkish Trade Law add and release the vast Turkish Trade Law with a motion? Will the Civil Code here allow it? I am changing the Turkish Trade Law with a motion. Can he say, "Can he bring it?" You, I looked at this, I spoke to the Laws and Decisions, I saw fit. Can you say that? What are 500 words for? Why were 48 hours brought in? He was brought in to chew these? Is that even possible? You'll withdraw it to the commission. The commission will take it back, he'll discuss it, he'll bring it to us.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0351par0039	Mr. Batum, I...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0353par0040	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0352par0041	Mr. President, that's all I have to say. Mr. President, this is why the whole thing was brought in, the 87th article, and the Constitution. These regulations, which have nothing to do with a proposal without meeting, without public opinion, without democratic pluralism, were made so that the General Assembly would not be passed. Husband, for her sake, can any law be brought into a field that has nothing to do with it? Can he answer that? Can you say that it's not 500 pages, it's not 500 words, it's 600, we've made it a summary? That's what he was brought in for, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0354par0043	Mr. Batum, are you finished, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0355par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0352par0045	They're doing something illegal.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0354par0046	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0356par0047	Mr. President, you have stated that you have received the necessary opinions. In the end, you have expressed your views on the Laws and Decisions. Could you please make me read it?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0354par0048	Mr. Hamzacebi, let me listen to you and let's finish, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0357par0050	He's even telling the truth!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0354par0051	I'll listen to Mr. Hamzacebi. I'll go over there. Sir, let him be restrained, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0358par0053	Mr. President, why did we work for the Justice Commission for four months? We've been working for four months, and this motion is just getting here; can this happen? Why wasn't this motion brought to the Commission's agenda for four months?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0354par0054	My dear friends, I've listened to the Commissioner.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0358par0055	What good is the Justice Commission? What do the residency commissions do in this House? Is that even possible? Is that an understanding?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0354par0056	He's got it all under control. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0358par0058	It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0359par0059	Not to take hold... then to the Justice Commissions, we're going to have to take care of all the commissions...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0358par0060	Is that an understanding?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0360par0061	Mr. President, I beg you, we've had a formal discussion. There's been a lot of irregular conversations outside of a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0358par0062	Mr. President, do you represent the corporate personality of the Commission? Is that even possible? That's not right.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0360par0063	You've made your decision. Please proceed according to your decision.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0358par0064	Then why did you hire us for four months on the Commission?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0361par0065	Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm going to listen to you and take action.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0362par0066	Even the Commissioner says...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0363par0067	If that happens in the legislature, everything happens in Turkey!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0364par0068	What kind of law-making technique is that?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0362par0069	Mr. President, you're not going through with this, are you?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0365par0070	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0366par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Articles 250, 251 and 252 of the Penal Code are being carried into Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law. The Penal Code is a general law, the Anti-Terror Law is a special law. Compared to these two laws in this relationship, one is general, the other is private. Now, I'd like to ask: Can dealing with drugs be organised under the Anti-Terror Law?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0367par0076	Yeah, if he feeds there...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0366par0077	I mean, you, Congressman, you're always too busy picking on me. If I were you, now, you know what I'd do if I were you? Look, if I were you, I'd open up a little bit, look at those laws, try to penetrate them, then I'd talk to them.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0368par0078	Mr. President, it's late.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0366par0079	Look, I've told you before, and I'll tell you again, I don't want you to know that he's a member of parliament at your party. It's a fine application of your party, I remind you. Mr. President, can we now enact a general law, the anti-drug, drug-crime part under the Anti-Terror Act? Even that shows that this arrangement is against the Civil Code. However, we do not find it right for you to continue these talks, saying that there is no change in my attitude. Look, I suggest again, Mr. Commission withdraw this clause to the Commission, or we remove this clause from this text here, with the motions, and we enforce it in the form that remains. Let's discuss this matter as a society. This stuff came in stealthy. We're just learning the stuff. Second, private court courts have become a major issue of debate in society with their assets, their investigations, their judgment in their cases, their trial. As a result of such a big discussion, the government has made a statement saying, "We will remove these courts." However, now, we will lift it. How will the government explain an arrangement to preserve the system as it stands, in relation to the minimum cases in which it is being held? It's not acceptable, and there's a great debate... these courts have lost their credibility. However, how can such cases be maintained as they are, and how can such proceedings be explained by the same objective criteria? There's an immeasurability here. There's no standard here. I will now create my own system, my own courts, my own judges, my own prosecutors in the judiciary. As the Republican People's Party, I declare that we will not accept this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0369par0084	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Continue]] I'm going to read the motion now: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0370par0092	Mr. President, midnight law, midnight law! [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] ..Interviewed 278 Orders 278 "We propose and propose the amendment of Article 74 of the framework of the Law on the purposes of activating Judicial Services and Postponing Cases and Punishments on Press Broadcasting Road... [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] Mr. President, what are you doing? What are you doing? ▪ Mahir Ünal Ahmet Aydın Osman Look at your love Akif Çağatay Kılıç Ayşe Nur Çışkapılı Ahmet Berat Çonkar Mr. President, everything has its ways. Shame on you! [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] Mihrimah Belma Kiyet Mustafa Akış Mehmet Doğan Kubat Zeynep Karahan Nice Salih Big Mine Leuk White
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0371par0107	Don't make this happen, Mr. President! [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] The article 10 of Article 74-3713 has been changed in the following way... Don't let this pass! [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] I'm not... Investigation of mission and judicial environment, investigation and prosecution procedures...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0372par0113	Mr. President, we can't hear. [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] The cases brought against Article 10- (1) for crimes under which the Ministry of Justice has proposed that the Court of Judges and Prosecutors' Court of Justice will be held in severe criminal courts to be appointed in the provinces where the judiciary can cover more than one province.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0373par0116	That's not possible, Mr. President! [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] The president and members of these courts cannot be assigned to other courts or jobs other than these courts by the judicial justice commission...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0374par0120	Please... friends, please... The Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice shall judge those who shall be tried, and the provisions concerning the duties of the military courts...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0375par0122	Mr. President, I can't understand! In connection with the crimes involved in this Law,....................................................................................
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0376par0125	Mr. President, we don't understand anything, we don't hear anything. That's not a negotiation!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0377par0126	Guys, please... ...a) The investigation is conducted by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors personally by the prosecutors of the Republic tasked with the investigation and prosecution of these crimes. These Republican prosecutors can't be assigned to other courts or jobs by the Attorney General's office of the Republic...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0376par0128	Take a break, that's not a negotiation! ...b) There is a direct investigation of the crimes committed in Articles 302, 309, 311, 311, 311, 314, 315 and 316 of the Turkish Penal Code, even if it is committed in the line of duty or duty...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0378par0131	Mr. President, we can't hear!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0379par0132	Guys, I can't hear either, they need to shut up. Guys, please... The Article 26 of the National Intelligence Service Act is under the rule of State Intelligence Services No. 2937, dated 1/11/1983. C) In the investigations carried out by the judge, enough judges are assigned to make the necessary decisions, to examine the objections against these decisions, and only to take care of them...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0380par0137	What are you voting for? We don't hear it, sir. In Article 91 of the Penal Code, 24 hours of detention is applied in 48 hours.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0381par0140	Mr. President, this is not a negotiation!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0382par0141	Please, friends, please... ...d) If the purpose of the investigation may be compromised, only one of the District Attorney's Office's orders to inform on the situation of the person arrested or detained or suspended. e) The right of the suspect in custody to meet with the defendant can be restricted to 24 hours by the judge's decision, at the request of the prosecutor's office; in which time no testimony can be taken...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0383par0145	Mr. President, it can't be continued, it can't be understood.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0384par0146	Mr. President, you're writing a history of democracy here. [[!]] ...f) Reports organised by the law enforcement office are only written with registration numbers instead of open identities of interested officials. The invitation or pager, issued when it is necessary to submit to the statement of law enforcement officers, is delivered to the police officer's work address. The statements and trial transcripts of these individuals show business addresses as addresses... [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] You're setting up your own courts here, your own courts!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0385par0151	Mr. President, take a break!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0386par0152	Please, gentlemen, please... we can't hear, we can't hear anyone. ...g) In order to ensure security, the hearing can be decided elsewhere. đ) Cases are also handled on a judicial holiday... [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] Please take your seat, please take your seat. The sixth joke (a) of Article 135 (a) of the Penal Code (a) subsidiary (8) of Article 139 (a) of Article 7 (a) the first joke (a) in the subbelief (2) of Article 140 (a) of Article 140 (a) will not be applied in the subsidiary (a) of Article 5 (a).
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0387par0159	Mr. President, we can't hear!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0388par0160	You can't hear, you can't hear! .......).................................................................................................................. A) A charge of laundering the value of drug and stimulant drugs and trafficking in the organisation's activities or criminal property, B) Crimes committed by using algebra and threat under the operation of an organization founded to seek unfair economic gain, C) Criminals (except Articles 305, 318, 319, 323, 324, 325 and 332), which have been identified in Sections Four, Five, Six and Seventh of the Second Section (except Articles 318, 319, 324, 325 and 332), have been held in court in accordance with Article One. Other than the third joke (d), (e), (f) and (h), the provisions of this clause are also applied in investigations and prosecutions for these crimes...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0389par0166	We can't hear! We can't hear!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0388par0167	Mr. President, we can't hear!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0390par0168	We can't hear you, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0391par0169	Here you go! That's not the Clave! We don't hear it. Other than Articles 305, 318, 319, 323, 324, 325 and 332 of the Turkish Penal Code, the Second Book is a double arrest period in crimes defined in Sections Four, Five, Six, and Seven.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0392par0172	We can't hear you, Mr. President! That can't happen! How dare you rule the House! We've lost our ear.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0391par0173	This can't go on, Mr. President, this can't go on! Give me those!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0393par0174	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0391par0175	Not like this! This isn't working! You need to be quiet.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit07spe0393par0177	I'm taking a break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0393par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0394par0003	Mr. President, have you worked it out yet?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0393par0004	The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0395par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0393par0006	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0395par0007	Now, sir, we just...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0396par0009	Mr. President, let's continue.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0395par0010	You guys have to shut up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0396par0011	You've said enough.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0397par0012	What does that mean, like a man?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0398par0013	Please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0399par0014	I'm sorry. Now, we say in Article 38 of the Civil Code which has just arrived, that this bill is contrary to Article 38 of the Civil Code, and in Article 38: "If the bill or proposal is contrary to the Constitution's spirit, it will be withdrawn." Now, the bill, which is in motion, is contrary to Article 83, which, as we speak, is contrary to the Article 83 of the Constitution, where general courts find its source, as well as a separate private court. There is no such basis in Article 143 of the Constitution, which is his basis. In this regard, it is contrary to the Constitution. But you didn't make a decision about it, about the law, about your opinion. First of all, we demand that our demands be settled.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0400par0015	Connected, connected.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0399par0016	But you said something like, "Sir, it's about the procedure." We didn't give you any explanations about the procedure. Our full disclosure is due to violations of the Charter 38, Constitution 83 and 142. We're asking you to consider these demands of ours. After that, we urge you to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0401par0017	And, Mr. President, you can't run the House. Look, according to Article 68, if there's a fight and noise in a parliament, the Speaker of Parliament will recess.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0402par0018	Sir, I'm on a break.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0401par0019	Now, you're the reason this fight is happening, sir, and I want you to promise me your attitude for him.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0403par0020	We've just opened a formal debate, Mr. President, no discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0402par0021	Now, if you'll excuse me, sir, first of all, we've just had a formal discussion, and inside, and here, our group presidents have given their opinion. Two people have spoken in favor and against, Mr. President of the Commission has spoken, and I've come to a decision on the position that I should follow, as well as on the Laws Decisions, and I'm trying to apply it. If there is a matter of violation of the Constitution, the Civil Code is clear: The General Assembly considers a motion proposed against the Constitution to be contrary to the Constitution. As a result of this assessment, if the Constitution sees a breach, it may refuse to hold a vote. Other than that, our presidency has no authority not to implement a motion proposed against the Constitution. The Constitution is established to decide against the contrary. It is possible to open and cancel the regulation at the Constitutional Court after the regulation has been enforced. Therefore, in this regard, it is not possible for our presidency to change or develop a position in one direction. That's the way it is here, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0023	Mr. President, this is a violation of the Constitution... look, we haven't raised this kind of objection until today. Dear friends... (AK PARTY RINGS) Wait a minute... we have never raised such an objection. However, we say that one of the provisions made today is not a violation of the Constitution, but that the way this motion was brought in is in direct violation of the Civil Code and the Constitution. Why? One moment, dear friends, it's writing. He gave me 48 hours. Meeting in commissions...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0405par0024	It's all demagogy.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0025	It's not demagogy. What you're doing is demagogy. My dear friends, Mr. President, a verdict says: "It waits forty-eight hours for the commissions to meet." Why are there these commissions? For this: Let him be seen, let everyone know; let him be taken from the necessary places, and then the law shall be made. Now, what we're telling you is, after the clause is made, after the commission is discussed, after coming here, can a motion be submitted to change the whole thing now? That's why the Civil Charter says: "There are no more than five hundred words. "
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0406par0028	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0029	If the motive passes...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0407par0030	Mr. Hodja, we've discussed this.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0031	But we didn't argue.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0407par0032	No, it's been reduced to 500 words, explained.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0033	We can't argue. Can we discuss something contrary to the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0407par0034	Five hundred words about motive.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0035	No, sir. It doesn't say...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0407par0036	And it's already been shown to our friends by signature, with a initial.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0037	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0407par0038	You say, again, now, on the one hand, that we do not claim to be contrary to the Constitution... our friend just said it. And I'm saying things I can't do in there.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0039	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0407par0040	Now, we've opened up a procedural debate with the others and the group's vice presidents, and we're on a path.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0041	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0407par0042	If you'll excuse me, we'll run the House.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0404par0043	Yeah, sure, why not? (EC PARTY) But even the Commissioner himself says: "Principle this must be withdrawn to the Commission."
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0408par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0407par0045	Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0408par0046	Mr. President, there's just been a lynching here. You've been watching this. We're sitting in our seats, and you, all the other group of vice presidents, what you're going to say is... a man can do wrong, but he can't be lynched. If you're trying to lynch us by relying on your numerical majority, challenge us!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0409par0048	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0408par0049	Shoot, kill! You'll be damned if you don't! If you don't lynch us, you'll be damned!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0410par0051	Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0411par0052	Mr. President, take it back! Take that back!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0412par0053	Mr. President, condemn him!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0413par0054	Mr. President, we're here to pick up our friend, but to come and attack and lynch him as a whole, and you're standing in your place as if nothing had happened, and the group's vice presidents have stood by as one. I congratulate you all, all of you! Because Kurds are the best Kurdish dead Kurds!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0414par0056	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0415par0057	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0413par0058	Let go of me! Let go of me!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0416par0059	Mr. Sakek, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0413par0060	Let me tell you something: you can't scare us. You can't scare us, you can kill us. You'll be damned if you don't!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0416par0062	Please don't make me nervous. Mr. Sakık, Mr. Sakek, please. Now, my dear friends, things have been done here according to the Civil Code. There's nothing else I can do.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0417par0066	Then go on, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0418par0067	Vote, Mr. President, vote!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0416par0068	Please sit down. You can continue your objections again. You can go after the Constitution, as you have suggested. The Civil Code commands it. Other than that, please, let's not stop the House from working, let it continue.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0419par0070	Mr. President, does the Civil Code command violence? We've seen violence in the National Board of Education, we've seen violence in the Civil Code, and now you're violent. Is that what the Civil Code says?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0416par0071	My dear friends, there's really nothing we can do.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0420par0072	Mr. President, continue.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0421par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0422par0074	Mr. President, according to this Civil Code, you rule.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0423par0075	Don't be like that, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0424par0076	Please sit down and let's start the House. ...) Articles 305, 318, 319, 323, 324, 325 and 332 of the Turkish Penal Code...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0423par0080	Mr. President, you're doing it again.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0424par0081	Come on, guys, don't... please don't... ...the second book, 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th chapters of the 4th Section, has twice the time of the arrest specified by the Penal Code.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0423par0084	Mr. President, you see the tension. For God's sake! Children cannot be tried in the courts established under the provisions of this clause; these court-issued investigations and prosecution provisions do not apply to children.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0424par0086	Okay. [HIP rows of knocks, noise, standing applause!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0423par0088	Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0424par0089	Guys, shut up. I'll have others read... other motions... please sit down...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0423par0090	Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0425par0091	Go ahead, Mr. President. [HIP rows of knocks, noise, standing applause!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0423par0093	Mr. President, you see the tension, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0426par0094	Yes, the three motions I'm going to now read are the same. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey There are 278 rows in sight...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0427par0098	Mr. President, please, you're provoking violence. We protest against you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0426par0099	Gentlemen, sit down...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0427par0100	Please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0426par0101	There's nothing I can do.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0427par0102	No, you guys have a lot to do.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0426par0103	No... no... no... please... ... of the 74th draft law. We provide and propose the release of the clause. Iğdır... [HIP rows of knocks, noise, standing applause!] Please... we have to run the coven. Please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0428par0109	It's all because of you. Please, Mr. President, please step in. ..Ayla Akat Erol Dora Murat Bozlak [HPP rows of knocks, noise, applause!] Please... look, you're spreading violence.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0429par0116	Read...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0430par0117	Mr. President, you're ruining Parliament's reputation.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0429par0118	Read... The signatures of other proposals of the same nature are: Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0431par0124	Mr. President, you're ruining the reputation of the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0432par0125	Mr. President, please step in. The signatures of the other proposal are: Zonguldak... [HPP rows of knocks, noise and applause!] Please, Mr. President, put your weight on it, step in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0433par0131	Please, gentlemen... please... let's run the coven. Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Dilek Akagün Yilmaz
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0432par0136	This is your duty. You're exacerbating violence.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0433par0137	There's nothing else to do according to the Civil Code. Please try to understand.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0432par0138	No... [HPP rows of knocks, noise and applause!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0433par0140	Do you agree with the other three proposals of the same nature, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0432par0141	Mr. President, your attitude raises violence.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0434par0142	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0435par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0436par0144	You don't agree. The motion...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0437par0146	We don't understand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0438par0147	Come on, Mr. President. [HPP rows of knocks, noise, applause!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0439par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0438par0150	Take an hour off, at least, Mr. President. It's 24 o'clock. It comes to 00, it doesn't happen in the middle of the night. Come on, Mr. President. [HPP rows of knocks, noise, applause!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0440par0152	Mr. President, you're exacerbating violence.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0441par0153	Mr. President, you can't bring your commitment to the commission here. We didn't hear the motion. You can't even talk to each other. You can't take away my right to speak on the motion. So I'd like to ask you to do as required by the Civil Code. Please... please don't be a tool... [HPP rows of knocks, noise, applause!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0442par0155	Do what? I can't hear.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0441par0156	We can't even hear each other! We don't even hear it!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0442par0157	No, we're not. Then let's calm down first.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0441par0158	That's not gonna happen! [HPP rows of knocks, noise, applause!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0442par0160	Gentlemen, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0443par0161	You can't let that happen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0441par0162	So you're bringing that thing from the National Board of Education in here? That's enough! Let's talk about it in a civilized environment.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0442par0163	Well, then shut up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0441par0164	Take five, we'll talk...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0442par0166	Quiet, gentlemen, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0441par0167	We don't hear what you're doing! We don't see what you're doing! We're not listening!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0444par0168	Tell me behind you, behind you! Look behind you!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0445par0170	Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0446par0171	Tell me over there!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0447par0172	You want me to do it or shut him up?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0445par0173	Call the group vice presidents, Mr. President, will you? I beg of you. Look, I beg you. Interfer, call the presidents and talk.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0448par0174	I did, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0445par0176	Please, sir! There's gonna be a fight!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0449par0177	Go ahead, President, go ahead, do what they want.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0445par0178	Mr. President, please intervene! Mr. President, you can't watch this, look at this! Please... for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0450par0179	Fix that.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0445par0181	Mr. President, for God's sake, that's enough!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0451par0182	Call the speakers, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0450par0183	Who asked the Republican People's Party to discuss the motion, sir, would you name it?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0445par0185	Mr. President, that's enough, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0450par0186	Mr. Vural, is he going to discuss the motion with any of our friends? If he comes, let's shut him up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0452par0187	What motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0445par0188	Mr. President, you've seen the seriousness of this, that's enough!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0453par0189	There's a movement against the House right now.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0445par0191	Mr. President, have you decided yet? Mr. President, we can't go on like this. Look, there will be violence, and you will be the cause of this violence!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0454par0194	Mr. President, invite the motion makers to speak.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit08spe0455par0196	Deputy members of the group, please come to the speech. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0456par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Hamzacebi, you asked for a promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0457par0009	Mr. President, we're discussing a bill in a tense environment. Mr. President, we've had two or three breaks, and in this tense environment, we've had a very unpleasant, tense situation. As we do not find the motion to be made in Article 74 as content, we also have major criticism of the way, the way, the way, and the time of the motion. It has been extremely wrong to share such an important arrangement with Parliament, with opposition parties too late. I asked for this motion yesterday, and we weren't given that motion. It's been said, we can't explain it. We can't explain it now. We're working on it. At the last minute, we'll come here and we'll legalize it today. If you call it that, that would be wrong. Our group reacted naturally. Such reactions should be accepted as a requirement of democracy. As Parliament, as the ruling majority, if you don't tolerate these reactions, we'll have problems in democracy, my friends. Eight years of uninterrupted basic education are being discussed at the National Education Commission in 1997, and what your brothers in your party did at that time at that time in the Commission, what we did at 4+4+4 is extremely small compared to what we did at the Commission. They expressed it at the time as a very democratic reaction. The Republican People's Party Group is reacting here. Meanwhile, Mr. Hasip Kaplan of the Peace and Democracy Party is on the stand under the influence of a tense environment, trying to get the motion from the Court Clerk. In this tense environment... [[The AK received, took, took, took, took the voices, the noise]] If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0458par0016	Please listen, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0457par0017	I mean, we're gonna talk a lot better if you just stop talking. Now, in this tense environment, people can really make mistakes, we can all make mistakes. I mean, even though we act so controlled, there are times when we really lose control, and then there are times when we feel sorry for these lost moments. Mr. Hasip Kaplan had a reaction to it. Now, is it right to go with such a large group to respond to Mr. Kaplan's behavior and almost lynch him?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0459par0021	Don't lie, don't lie!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0460par0022	Shame on you! Shame, this is the Deputy Director of the Group, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0461par0023	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0462par0024	Now, look, look, it's not working, guys. You're a ruling party with 336 MPs. There's a small group here, and one of his deputies, the Deputy Director of the Group, is reacting. Why are you making such a big deal out of this? ▪ Yahu! Mr. Kaplan, it didn't work out. You can say that. A few of our friends went and said "Mr. Kaplan" and tried to calm things down, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0463par0025	He's always interfering, he's always interfering!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0462par0026	There's footage on the Internet, and it's not true. I didn't just come up here to make a scene. I didn't come up here to make a scene, we shouldn't be nervous, we should be able to have any kind of civil conversation here. Mr. President's taking a break, we've been sitting inside talking. I don't find this action against Mr. Kaplan right, and I condemn it, Mr. Kaplan, yes, he did, but his reaction to him has been extraordinarily extravagant, and it has been wrong. So Mr. President took a break, tried to find a solution in the back, in his own way. As a solution, we said: "It is not right to continue this discussion in this environment, come, let's leave this meeting for tomorrow, let's leave it for tomorrow. You may not like it, I made a suggestion. Yes, you've stopped talking, you're smiling, that's a better reaction, congratulations.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0464par0029	My smile...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0462par0030	No, that's good, that's good, I expressed it as a positive development. Let's leave it for tomorrow. If you want tomorrow, it's 14 o'clock. 12 from 00. We can take it to 00, because it's not right to insist on something in a tense environment and try to keep it going. The evil of the morning is better than the good of the evening. There's a good word for it, so it's better to leave something in the morning. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I have a few more minutes?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0465par0034	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0462par0035	No, our friends from the ruling party, we can't do that, it's perceived as a compromise, not the exact sentences. Dear friends, would such an approach be compromised by a ruling party group with 336 MPs? I said, "Come." So let's write this motion together. Let's make some adjustments. For example, you say cases that continue. Let's make an adjustment to these cases. We have a motion in the next chapter on arrested lawmakers in the 24th term -- I think the other opposition parties made that motion, so I guess I shouldn't say anything misleading -- so let's do something like that. Now, there's an approach that says no to everything. In this frame, I left Mr. President's office, and we didn't come out with a compromise. I mean, the ruling party group wants to continue, of course, if that's the way it's decided, it can, but we haven't had a particularly planned reaction when we're reacting. As a group, I don't think... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0466par0039	Please, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0462par0041	Thank you, I may have overused your permission, my last words. So it's not a matter of planning a reaction, it's natural that we react to such an arrangement as a group, and you have to understand that. What needs to be done, is to leave this proposal, this motion, this clause tomorrow, starting tomorrow, I don't know how we're going to start tomorrow, and I don't know if you're going to come to something, but at least in a quieter environment, we'll discuss it again, we'll talk, and then the age of living will be over. Thank you. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0467par0047	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0468par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. I've spoken with its nature before, actually, justice is the foundation of property. As lawmakers, we're going to make a decision here by making an assessment of what we call a very important issue, based on our conscience, our knowledge, but you can appreciate that we can't use our government's mind on such an important issue, when a great challenge, such as the Republic of Turkey, is really behind us, a glorious history, as the traditions of the Republic of Turkey. We don't have the information of the state's institutions on this, because he didn't go through the filter, he didn't come here as a Council of Ministers bill. So a state has the right to make a motion on such an important issue -- there are so many ministries, all of us with taxes, with the taxes of our citizens -- of course, a valued MP has the right to make a motion, but we run a state, we call it the foundation of justice property. It's not a healthy decision-making process for our state's Council of Ministers not to bring a bill, not to state a will on it, and only lawmakers to bring it up with an offer, friends. Again, look, we're representatives of the nation, so the representatives of a nation that has existed throughout history are here today, as lawmakers, representing this will. Let's leave our parties, let's leave these, we all have something to say, we may not agree with any of what we say, but we are the representatives of this nation. They run this state, we represent this nation. So, where do we express our views and thoughts on such an important matter? It's on the commission. Why are there commissions? I mean, it's come to this, so what happens next? We had a suggestion, which is very reasonable, because tomorrow, we're going to continue with the state secret, the bag, the law, the health, a lot of things. My dear friends, you are not going on vacation tomorrow, nor Wednesday or Thursday, but believe me, if we lift our fingers for justice, we will replace many of our futile meetings. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] So let's put our hands on our conscience. Let those who want to contribute do it. What's the point? I'm going to have a different opinion, and I'm saying that this isn't exactly what we're looking at, and we're not thinking like the Republican People's Party. Special authority courts and special courts are different. In an environment where Turkey faces threats, we believe that the state of the Republic of Turkey needs an effective tool to fight them in an environment of many threats, but does it or doesn't it? That's what people sent us here for, believe me. My dear friends, behind you, of course I respect that, of course, is the will of the majority party. It may not be necessary for you to contribute too much, but behind us... we'll think with our own sources of information. We'll see, we'll ask; what's going on, what's going on. Put your hand on your conscience. How do we do that? It's a motion; think about it. I wonder what he's bringing, what he's taking. We ask him, we ask him, we do this so we don't do anything wrong. In that regard, the opposition needs to show respect for its ground to form an attitude. I wish we could, I wish we could. What have we got here, let's be two days late! Let's be two days late for God's sake. There shouldn't be any actual circumstances here today in this Parliament, my friends.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0469par0061	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0468par0062	My voice may be loud and my words may be strong, my criticism may be heavy, but if we put the House in a Parliament ruled by actual circumstances, my dear friends, then you've legitimized a coup d'état. So let's all stick the needle in ourselves first, everyone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Stick the needle in yourself, and then whatever you want to call our group, whatever you want to call that group, whatever you want to call that group, whatever you want to call that group. I'll fuck it up. My dear friends, there may be noise, not a dead end. There's a method; you need to calm down. The president takes five minutes, he takes another break, he takes another break, it doesn't matter, dear friends. Better to be on the Rahmani side than to do something in a hurry. It's better to be the Beneficent. In such haste, pirated proposals in the middle of the night, I only meet the devil with them. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] In that sense, I think these are some objections, some noise, these are my dear friends, whatever you want to do... behind every one of the 1 MPs here, there are 80 to 85,000 votes behind the AKP, or 70 thousand votes behind our MPs, when they're considered to be 120,000 votes, each one of them. Everyone represents a will. So I think it's the nation's will to be respected, the majority will of course, but there's the other side of the nation you have to respect as lawmakers. In this regard, some efforts to block, of course, to the public, our valued deputies, to express, of course, his stance to those who brought him here, will express his word, his reaction, something. It's good to keep it at this level, and it's good to see it at this level, but I don't think it's right to turn it into a method of Parliament work if it doesn't work. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In that respect, as the National Movement Party, Mr. President, with all due respect, we need to be a little more patient about this. There may be objections, but in this Parliament, frankly, in the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with its opposition to its power, in the Assembly General Assembly, we all have to express the voice, the will of the nation that brought us all here, and everyone must respect each other. Of course, the majority will, the majority will in democracies rules the others, and that's the rule, but you have to obey the right, the law. As the National Movement Party, let's give each of us a chance to make an assessment of this matter. I'm hoping there'll be a statement of will to make about it.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0470par0071	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0468par0072	Mr. President, Mr. Mehmet Sektý Bey... I assume the referee has changed?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0470par0074	It's not, it's a little uncomfortable...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0468par0075	Yeah, candy?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0470par0076	It's from his long-term work. Thank you, yes.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0468par0078	Sir, I hope you don't work that long. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0470par0081	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Akat.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0471par0084	Yes, it's a quarter to one, dear friends, and in recent years, I think our Parliament's working schedule is over midnight. The long-term work and the sudden rush to bring all the laws to this point, the anxiety of the House, and the long-term work, of course, has an impact on human psychology, physiology. Dear lawmakers, the time and time of the motion that we discussed, as wrong as the time of the bill that we have discussed, has been so wrong. We're talking about a judgment package. Almost every political party has a desire to make positive contributions in the process of enforcing the law on Turkey's democratisation, due to its commitment to its constituent. But it was brought at a time that the last week of the legislature, the last day, and we had to discuss this bill in a very tense environment. Every political party has its contribution. There were only word changes here yesterday, the CHP's motions were adopted, and there are no other opposition motions to be accepted. Of course, there have been talks, and we don't know if they'll reflect on the motions brought by you by the ruling party, but since we've been discussing an important law, the House is meeting mostly at this hour today. Another dimension: Everyone has different opinions about the current bill. Every time the Peace and Democracy Party takes this stand on relevant issues, the special official stressed that the criminal courts must be removed. But when these courts are taking off, they will search for those who have been neglected. He also stated that they should not be involved in the joke. We've learned about the current proposal today. Like any political party, we've looked, we've looked, we've sent them to certain places, we've tried to get certain results, but there's a lot of questions in our heads. Mr. Group, that's why our Vice President asked for a last-minute position. The group's vice presidents have been unable to express themselves within the amount of time they've been given about the procedure. Within a three-minute period of time, there was no mention of why this law was challenged and why those three minutes were inadequate at the point of criticism about the administration, and tension occurred. We had to listen to the motion in an environment where the person didn't hear any other member of parliament here. Let him go, Mr. President. Can you talk to him about your suggestions? He asked the question. Our Group Vice President, yes, may have made a mistake, but dear friends, a bigger mistake has been made that the entire group, the AKP Group, has attacked our Deputy Group President. There's nothing more wrong than that. Which is, friends, let's just say that the AKP Group is actually 326 MPs. It is also a fact that we and the Party of Peace and Democracy have come to Parliament with 36 lawmakers, who have lost their hair in a 10 per cent election dam. We're here with 35 members of the AKP Group, and one of our MPs is in prison. All five of our MPs are in prison, but I'll put it this way because they dropped 1. Which we call the will of the nation in this Parliament. The most frequent discussion we've had in the last year is the matter of the arrested MPs. There has been such a tense situation in this bill of legislation when it has not been able to find the common basis for the arrangements and evaluations on this issue, and as a result, when we look at the comments made after this tension, let's look at our group and not remove the special authorities, they want this. The special official has stated who the criminal courts were founded for, or what function they now function for. As of today, it is a fact that it is in a worse position than its sovereign courts because today, there are not only Kurds who oppose its goal, but all other opposition centers are the targets of these courts. There is a truth to this aspect, but it should not be forgotten that if Turkey is discussing a package of judgments, there is no way that we can conduct our discussions in such a tense environment, including the Anti-Terror Law, Turkish Penal Code and Penal Code. We, the BDP Group, are not happy with the recent developments in the last hour, of course, but of course we think the AKP Group is responsible for this. The way you run Parliament is actually equivalent to the way you run the country. Your policy of bringing the country with an antidemocratic procedure based on the Civil Code, by suppressing, suppressing opposition forces... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is the same as your management policy. But I want to end by saying that the regimes without opposition are not called democracy, but the regimes without opposition are called dictatorship, and we will be part of the most radical opposition, the most radical democracy struggle. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0472par0094	Thank you. Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0473par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all. I would like to make it very clear that the work has a whole system of power and opposition, the duties and responsibilities of the government, perhaps the opposition has more duties and responsibilities. Our friends have just expressed, and I agree with that, so we have no objection to the opposition, to the opposition, to the opposition, to the bitter criticism, to the empty side of the glass. Of course, there may be occasional slurring, unfortunately, which means that this has been a method that has always been, in the past, and in the past, it can happen with its power today, and we, as a ruling group, will endure it, we will endure it, we will endure it, we will endure this fierce opposition, we will have no objection, we will have no objection to it. From time to time, we can raise our voice in the heat of tension, so this can happen. It doesn't change the truth, but it certainly doesn't change the fact that the truth is being fulfilled. We believe in it from the heart, we have no problem with it. Indeed, we listen regularly, listen to criticism, listen to criticism, of course, the opposition will speak, criticize, do his duty, and we will listen to him, and listen patiently. That's not the problem here, folks, the problem here is, of course, there are certain possibilities given by the Civil Code, such as obstruction, delaying; all of these are natural, all of which are legal, with the exception of the rules drawn in the Civil Code. Now, again, if there are demands in this frame, or beyond that, of our friends, beyond the rules set in the Civil Charter, speech, perhaps even a little bit more, as it has just appeared, it is natural to have a reaction as noise, up to a certain point. Okay, we may not like it, we might criticize it, but in the end, they can be understood, they need to be met. The group that he needs to understand the most is the AK PARTY group, but the problem is that it's not here; it's here, it's not supposed to be converted into the way the House works. What I'm clearly trying to say is that using this method, the House's work will be suspended, the House will be vacationed, or that unwanted issue, if that motion is prevented by this form of discussion, or if it is wanted to be prevented, it will be the problem. Then it's a method that determines the way the House works, directs it. I suppose you won't agree, no one will.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0474par0102	According to the Civil Code. You say, "Don't shoot." Why do you say, "Don't shoot?"
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0473par0103	Look, okay, it can happen, it can be hit on the lids; it's good that it doesn't get shot at, but as I said, until you get the reaction perceived on the opposite side, it may be limited to this, okay, but if you don't have the will or the application to use it as a tool at the point of not running the House, it's not something that any of us would want; it's not something that we would want; and at that point we're against it, and I already believe that it's as hard as it is, in terms of talking and expressioning as much as possible, it's not really happening in any of any of them. Oh, it needs to be given, I'm not saying anything, but in terms of the rules of the Civil Code, it's true for our friends, our group presidents and all of us, including these, but it's important, it needs to be another dimension, but I'm trying to say that enough is already being given. Oh, we wouldn't have the slightest objection if we'd been asked to talk about it here for another hour. I mean, we've been talking for, like, three hours. If I'm not mistaken, we've been talking about this for, like, three hours. In that frame, our friends might want to share their content, their conviction. We could have no objection to that. But as I was just trying to emphasize, in this way, I even told my friends inside: let's say that if we had decided to take the day off today -- under normal circumstances -- we would have to give it up, even because of this incident. Yeah, why? Otherwise, it would be a false practice that would guide, govern, direct, and set an example for the way the House works. So, we need to resume our studies where we left off. And I'll tell you what, Mr. Vural just said it, and I told him inside, that our negotiations will continue on their normal course. Until all the articles of this law are discussed, we can always discuss, discuss, discuss the content of the motion that was just discussed, and talk about it in groups, and if there's a need for renovations, we'll also negotiate the monopoly. That's possible, and that's what I'm saying from here. There's no obstacle to that, including the commission's motion to withdraw. So in that assessment, including then or recess, because of what I just said, we certainly don't find it true in the frame I said, because then there would be a situation like the direction of the Council, the direction of the Council of Congress, which none of us should accept, and we shouldn't. But it's possible in this frame, and I'm saying it from here. So let's talk about it, let's keep these meetings going, let's keep going. During those talks, again, if there was a consensus about that... there was, in fact, one thing that a friend of ours had said, there was a Constitutional decree, but let's make the same decision here. So we can talk about it, and I think we should talk about it. We'll talk, but that doesn't stop the negotiations from working. That doesn't require a recess. This does not require that the bill or the proposal or this clause be drawn to the commission.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0475par0105	What are we gonna chat about, Mr. Canicli?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0473par0106	I mean, I don't want to get into it too much, and I don't want to take up too much time, but we're willing to tolerate reactions, and that way...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0476par0107	Send it to the commission. Let's discuss it in the Commission.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0473par0108	So the debate, the fact that the voices have gone up, doesn't change that. That's how the AK PARTY Group has to deal with this, we're aware of that. But it shouldn't be the way, it shouldn't be the way, it shouldn't be the way, it shouldn't be the way, it shouldn't be the main thing; it should be the Civil Charter, it should be the rules in the Civil Law. We have to obey him, we have to obey him.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0477par0109	You want us to shut up.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0473par0110	In this frame, of course, I think our friends have done a little bit of injustice to the opposition's suggestions, criticism, contribution. Because we've actually been in these negotiations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and many times we accept the motions of our friends from the opposition. In fact, we're making decisions in some laws together, together, so maybe not on the desired level from your point of view, okay, so... But as a result, friends, you have opinions, opinions; we have opinions, thoughts. We can't lock the system when it doesn't match, and there's a way, and there's nothing in common, right? The system will work, it will continue. The negotiations will continue, and Congress will continue its work.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0478par0113	So, how do you judge attacking a group?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0473par0114	Our wish, our desire, all this, if possible, is to reach a point of reconciliation. Let's all take a step from where we are, but it may not always be, it may not be, it's natural. So we have different political parties, different opinions. That's why we go out in public like that, because of our differences. So it's supposed to be natural, but having these different views shouldn't block the system. That's what we expect. That's what we ask. I say that it would be much healthier and legal to have it run in this frame, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0479par0117	Thank you. [[Continue]] I'm going to re-read and process the three motions of the same nature on the 74th article...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0124	Mr. President, I'd like to say something about the procedure. ▪ To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... Mr. President, please... We offer and propose the removal of Article 74 of the bill number 278 from the draft text. Mr. President, just a moment... (Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek)
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0481par0131	Mr. Batum, I made a promise to the members of the group.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0132	Mr. President, just a moment... ▪ Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Ali Riza Özturk Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Ali Öz Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Erol Dora Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0482par0149	Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0483par0150	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0151	Mr. President, we wanted to talk to you about the procedure.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0482par0152	Just a moment, Mr. Batum. I've initiated the motion, but please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0153	But wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0482par0154	When the motion is completed, I promise.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0155	I don't want a word on the motion, Mr. President, just about the procedure.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0484par0156	There's been a formal discussion, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0482par0157	I understand, Mr. Batum, but we don't have that kind of procedure. Mr. Group, I've promised the vice presidents -- five minutes each, eight minutes each, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0158	That's a beautiful way to put it. Mr. President, three group vice presidents... please, don't.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0482par0160	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0161	Three group vice presidents have made it very clear that such a long and changing the meaning or content of a law that was brought at the last second cannot be brought in without being discussed in the Commission. They're absolutely right. The provisions in the Constitution and the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0482par0162	Mr. Batum, we're talking this way from 20 minutes. Please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0163	Wait a minute... Because the majority here is oppressive, because the majority here ignores the voice of the minority, we're going through the most basic...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0482par0165	We run an internal charter, sir. Show me what to do, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0166	You need to do this: three group vice presidents say this should be discussed in the Commission.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0485par0167	Five groups of vice presidents say they should meet here, sir.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0168	And a group of vice presidents, who don't mean anything, come and chat, have coffee, while they say meaningless things about the type of meeting. With all due respect, why don't we have coffee with the vice president and sit down? We're here to discuss this law with the Commission.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0486par0170	Thank you, sir. The words are in the transcripts, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0480par0171	It's pointless to go on like this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0486par0172	Does the government agree, sir?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0487par0173	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0486par0174	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0488par0176	Mr. President, that can't happen!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0486par0177	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel. Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0489par0180	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion, and I salute you all. Democracy brings with it a culture of long - suffering. So collective work also requires collective work. Unfortunately, since there is not a very democratic environment in this country, we have often expressed it on this bench. When you look at all the reports, at least a hundred times, perhaps a thousand times on this platform, it has been stated that this Assembly is not run democratically. It causes problems and crises because it is not run democratically. First of all, it's a problem to bring a law that is so important that the public expects it in Turkey -- as our MP Ayla Akat just said -- to bring it in so quickly and not even create an argument on it. If we're going to make a law that affects the future of Turkey, then we're going to make a law according to it, we're going to discuss it. Now, our AKP Group Deputy President is up, and he says here: "We want to discuss it too." In fact, we care. If you want to discuss it, you care, you create the possibilities. Now, what just happened here is a despotic governance. In particular, the approach of our friend, the Speaker, is not acceptable. Now, no one questioned it, and since it was an approach to the BDP, no one made a sound. An application here requires a reprimand, or it requires a discussion. There will be no justice here unless this happens. Now, it's a problem to treat similar situations as if there's no problem without us discussing them. Secondly, the MPs, Mr. Secretary, the matter is... we demand the removal of the special authority courts. We say, "Let these special authority courts be removed." But you're not taking down special jurisdictional courts, you're setting up new special authority courts. Let's discuss this. What's the point of discussing this? At the same time, the Speaker continues to talk about this without any further discussion. I mean, what kind of approach is that? That's not acceptable. So, lawmakers, justice is necessary for all of us, and democracy is necessary for all of us. We'll work harder in this House. Another year's over. Now, on the one hand, we think we're having some new Constitutional debates. That's where a bunch of people work, they don't know what to do. In the new Constitution, we will democratize the so-called Turkey, solve the fundamental problems of Turkey, solve the Kurdish problem, at which point we say we will move Turkey to advanced democracy, but at the same time we are fighting other things. The point of a fight here isn't to actually build a new Constitution. The AKP is doing its own new Constitution right here. That's why you're fighting. That's why you're making such a fuss. Because we're building a new constitution. If we argue, we don't work until the middle of the night, even in the morning, and we wait. We'll do things in harmony with this Constitution, but we don't do this, we work until the morning, we make laws here, these are the special courts, these are the ones. Now, that's not an acceptable point. The other one, okay, let's get it out, you know, you're very hardworking, you're going to be a great service to this community, so let's understand that, but it doesn't exist. Well, then, develop democratic principles, we'll develop this issue together, let's stay a day, let's discuss it some day, really. There's no need to argue in such a tense environment. Let's say -- let's say the group's vice presidents meet at other times -- have the Justice Department hold a meeting, discuss this issue, and show them what it's really going to be like for Turkey. Now, trying to force this job out here without any of this being done shows Turkey's advanced democracy, the advanced democracy of the AKP. We've never seen anything from advanced democracy. They were called democracies, they were carried out political genocide operations under the name "KCK"; they were called democrats, they were sent to prisons; they were called democrats, they were arrested workers in Turkey. Just recently, 28 of our public workers were arrested. Why? Only because they're Kurds in this country, because they're fighting hard labor, because they're against 4+4. What kind of democracy is this? If you can't say what you think, if you can't do anything different, how can you talk about a democratic environment? We also saw an example of advanced democracy tonight. So the group's vice presidents could've solved this before it got to this point. Only what I'm doing, the Speaker, can run more effectively. The group's vice presidents or political parties can make the opposition. Resolving a crisis is an art of management. You run it right, you get good results, you don't run it right, you cause chaos and chaos. That's one of the things that happened today. And I'm saying that everyone, himself, has somehow been involved in this chaos at this point. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0490par0189	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0491par0192	Mr. President, we have made a motion, of course, but it is clear that we will not discuss the motion that we have made today because, unfortunately, I need to talk about your proposal, which will be discussed shortly after these proposals -- in line with these proposals. Actually, do you know what we're talking about today? So what you're suggesting or complaining about as change, or the main opposition party is complaining about, actually, is the provisions of the Turkish Penal Code in 2004. In 2004, if you remember, it was you who called an extraordinary meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and you said, "We need to get through this immediately." But so far, these practices have become something that even Mr. President complains about, even the Prime Minister complains about, even the main opposition party complains about. Therefore, it was you who called a meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at Verheugen's request for the request and desire of the European Union in 2004; remember that you are the ones who called for an extraordinary meeting of the Turkish Penal Code of Turkey to meet on October 1st to meet on the road to the European Union. Now, the Turkish Penal Code that you passed today regarding that extraordinary meeting has become a law that has been reported by both the ruling party, the prime minister and the main opposition party. So, when it's looked at like this, it's actually a product of all this work that there's no legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there's no other talks here, there's no Parliament, day-to-day, short-term demands from inside or outside. And so is this motion, in fact. Of course we've talked about it in this motion, and I've shared it with you. Now, everyone put your hands on your conscience. It's clear that you're uncomfortable with the application during this process. Well, isn't there a plague of an illness? It's the plague. Whatever you do, there's a plague. This motion came too. We don't know if he'll take it or not. The main opposition party is saying that this is not the case. But for a moment, won't the vote that you hold on to this motion at this time of night, as of this following practice, do you or do you not intend to carry out the process of making a plague or a just law? In this regard, I see here the principle of equality vanishes. My dear friends, with this proposal you have brought, you wish to continue all the executions of former Chief of Staff İlker Başbug, but you cleanse Yasar Büyükanit. Why? Because of the secret talks in Dolmabahçe? Why? Why two different loads? Why? Why? So when it is looked at like this, the goal and goal of the armor you bring is to create an immunity suit against practices such as the president and his men. When it's looked at, you don't remove the 250, 251, 252 of CMK, it's an empirical lift, but my dear friends, you're talking about the removal of these materials, but since it's not a removed substance, it's also going to give you an important gap.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0492par0197	Mr. Vural, please, I'm extending your time, but I feel the need to make a statement: Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0491par0199	Thank you. My dear friends, when they looked at all of this, Mr. President has complained that the issues regarding the Izmir matter are continuing, for example. Is it being resolved? It doesn't work out. The trick, the others, is not being solved. And, my dear friends, there's a very important sentence, TCK 302, 309, 311, 311, 311, 314, 315, 316, even though it's been processed directly by prosecutors in the line of duty. Well, who's not in charge? The MIT is inscribed in Article 26 of the article. Who are they? If the prime minister has instructed public officials to perform a specific task, they will be allowed to do so. Can they do that about the MPs? They can do it according to a comment, but they can't do it about MIT. My dear friends, what are these crimes? Article 302, I read: "Destroying the unity of the state and the integrity of the country." I ask: Is it the duty of public officials in the Republic of Turkey to break the unity and integrity of the state? You're bringing in armor about it. Article 309: violation of the Constitution, 311... (Voice against the President of the Republic of Turkey) My dear friends, if the Prime Minister instructs anyone about these things, they need to be allowed to take a stand on what they're doing. How is that possible? How could it be?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0493par0204	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0491par0205	Here it is... a direct investigation of the 302, 309... of the Turkish Penal Code, even though it was committed in the line of duty. However, the sentence of Article 26 of the National Intelligence Service Law is sealed, says my dear friend. Why? Is that what you're supposed to do? When the president is given a post on the assassination, the Prime Minister will have to give permission in the MIT Law. Even this is a burden to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. It is clear that such claims should be investigated.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0494par0207	Mr. Vural, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0491par0209	For him, there's a lot to say about that. But I want to point out that at this point, Mr. Prime Minister, at which point we're here, Mr. Prime Minister, we have no such will. We don't have that will. Bekir Bozdağ is not in the state of law. This complicated government has no will here. The members of the Council of Ministers have no will. That's why we express our concerns about this arrangement. As the Nationalist Movement Party on this arrangement, we believe that there should be a litigation court on the threats Turkey faces, a warrant for the current cases, abolition of issues in the abuse of the mission, an end of long-term detentions, and long-term trials should be over as soon as possible. But we also see that there's no progress in this material that you're bringing in -- there's going to be more trials, there's going to be more detention hearings, there's going to be dissolution of justice, there's going to be delaying distribution. Given this subject, we see that justice on this axis is not contributing to the current cases in terms of accelerating them as quickly as possible. That's what we're criticized for. If only we'd taken steps to correct all of this, we wouldn't have had to express our views on all of this in three or five minutes, just as acting president of the group or at the President's leniency. I mean, I hate to even try so hard, I really do. We talked about it, like we're gonna figure it out. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The point is to talk here, just to get in the report, just to get in the report, just to get in the report. We'd like to have a negotiation process, but as a result of this, as the National Movement Party, I have made this opportunity to express our thoughts on this proposal that the AKP will soon bring. Mr. President, thank you very much for your leniency. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0495par0216	Thank you. Yes, the third voice on the motion is Emine Ültur Tarhan, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0496par0220	Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been awaiting the removal of special authorities for days because someone had said: "We will remove special authority courts." However, we understand today that you have decided to declare them enemies, to continue with other staffs, and to establish a special justice order for a couple of special officials. You've decided to do this, and you're asking us to do this: I can't believe that in this country where you're trying to bring heavy, advanced fascism, this way you're trying to bring it in, I can see that the main opposition party MPs are asking you to discuss this law on such short notice, and we're going to drink cold water on it, and we're going to sit down and have tea with you guys, so I can't believe it, I really can't believe it. You bring us such heavy fascism... we are not afraid of fascism, we are never afraid of Fascism... because we know where fascism is; we know where fascism is; we know how it tries to govern us, but if you surround the people with fascism by the hand of the judge... you leave them a little breathless, a little worried about it. Besides, we don't sign anything until we read it. I see you've signed without reading anything in this script. Dear lawmakers, you're thinking of handing over the remaining cases to private court officials, telling them that new procedures shouldn't be applied to them. Aren't there any lawyers among you? I don't think so, because you don't even realize that the statute of limitations in these criminal courts is 30 years. Don't you realize that a case is going to be handed down by thirty years and four judges? I'm ashamed. How could you not know that? You're gonna put four judges in charge of a case for 30 years, and you're gonna wait until that case is over, and you're gonna wait for the Turkish people to believe it? Look, it's clear from the opposition of the great Turkish lawyer, Bekir Bozdağ, that you are now determined to rule this country with the police state (Applause from CHP rows), which is clear. I thought you said there was no room for special authorities in the state of law, Mr. Secretary. I thought you said you didn't, you said you didn't trust and you thought it was against democracy. You obviously changed your mind overnight because you've been talking about it for days. You have delivered our people to a building, where you tremble in fear. You've decided to bring unlimited immunity to power with a new staff close to you, and you're trying to do it in a few hours, like you're smuggling from a fire, like you're doing a piece of work, we won't allow it, we won't allow it. (Applause from CHP rows) You can identify your warped system with the state, you can declare your enemies an external altar or a traitor, and according to your new national security strategy, you may choose to declare these enemies to be NGOs, journalists, teenagers, and practice a war law. So you can fill out the prison, and you can give harsh sentences to thousands of people. You know what you do for him all the time? You buy iron sticks, non-stop. Instead of buying books, you buy iron batons, you fill thousands of cops instead of teachers, you still can't solve the staff and security problem, because... you get pepper spray, and you decide to buy the last pepper spray. I want to tell you why you're so scared. You're really scared, so you're trying to investigate yourself. Because it's full of young people who know the world a little bit more every day. Most of them are unemployed, most of them poor, and desperate for the future. It's a society full of young people whose every objection has been scolded, whose batons have failed, who you want to discipline with pepper spray, and what's worst of it is that you force to be spiteful when it's only meant to be happy. And the ticking tics of the time bomb make you sleep with one eye open, thinking you're capable. You have to, because you're afraid and you want to investigate and protect yourself, and you want to trouble or destroy your enemies, and you've even slept with one eye open to the forces you've been allies with for years. Just as you are now not brothers to your neighbors, who were once your brothers, one day, with the focus you share in power... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, yes, please... ...your alliances can be broken, your mutual secrets can come into play, some secrets can come into play. You see, one day, that judgment you're building can become a means of revenge for you, so you want to protect yourself, which is exactly why you're operating at midnight tonight. Ask yourself, "Who has created a judgment that betrays the principles of law, which is enjoined on revenge? ▪ Ask yourself, who made the judges who were assigned to protect democracy and freedom a drag hunter? It doesn't really matter who did it anymore, it doesn't really matter whether it was the congregation or the AKP. Now, there are fights that are being gathered, tried to gather, like hyenas fighting, and we've noticed that you have boat-wrecker fights. This is why you sacrifice society, and this is the 74th article that you have brought before us today that you are actually sacrificing society. You share your Rambo courts, you share your power with the forces you share with them; that's what you do. Whatever we said happened, it all happened. We said you'd create a party judgment. Yes, you created a party justice, and you created a structure of your own judges that couldn't even manage a tent theater, and most importantly, you created a judgment that could even choose a donkey. But look, you're missing one thing, and you have to see this: the warped judicial system, the injustices caused by the judiciary with its special judicial forms, the coup, the coup, the terror, these two villains, believe both of them, unfortunately, will call upon the curses. Don't you realize that? Don't you know what you're doing? Look, because where there's freedom and justice, believe me, nobody wants to start a fight, nobody wants to make a fuss, nobody wants to pack their bags and go anywhere else, I know. If you're happy, if you're free, you have no reason to cause unrest, or to leave your home, but all this pressure, oppression... I'm afraid that your security policies will force you to build up a little bit more every day, like those who fear your shadow that will force you to do everything again and again, as if it were a good thing again, as you've been doing it for ten years, and as it is now. You won't get out of this grave because fear awaits the mountains because you're afraid of democracy, Mr. Secretary. So, I know you're not an effective person. I know that. You don't have the power to change things, and I know that, but you're doing it wrong, Mr. Secretary. Don't do this to the Turkish people, don't do this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0497par0232	Thank you. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions of the same nature have not been accepted. I'm reading the other motion: [HPP rows on rows, clapping, clapping!] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 778-selected "Strike to the fronts of the Law Bill [HPP desks, claps, applause, applause] on the purpose of activating Judgement Services in some Laws and Retributing Crimes Against Press Broadcast Road and Postponing Punishments. " We offer and propose that the framework article 74 be changed in the following way. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Article 74-3713 has been changed in the following way, along with Article 10 of the Law. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] "Security of the environment of duty and judgment, investigation and prosecution Article 10- (1) The lawsuits brought against the State of Justice on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice for crimes involving these laws will be held in severe criminal courts to be appointed in provinces where the judiciary of the Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council can cover more than one province. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] The president and members of these courts cannot be assigned to other courts or jobs other than these courts by the judicial justice commission. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] (2) The Constitutional Court and the provisions for those to be tried by the Supreme Court and those to be tried by the Judiciary are sealed and the provisions for the duties of the military courts are sealed. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] Congressmans, please... ............................................................................................................................................. A) The investigation is conducted by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors personally by the prosecutors of the Republic tasked with the investigation and prosecution of these crimes. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] These Republican prosecutors cannot be assigned to other courts or jobs by the Attorney General's office of the Republic. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] B) A direct investigation is carried out by the Republican prosecutors, even though it was committed in 302, 309, 311, 311, 313, 314, 315 and 316 of the Turkish Penal Code. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] Article 26 of State Intelligence Services No. 2937, dated 1/11/1983 and under Article 26 of the National Intelligence Service Act. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] Congressmans, please... ...c) In the ongoing investigations, enough judges are appointed to make the necessary decisions by the judge, to examine the objections against these decisions, and to handle them alone. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] ) The period of detention is 48 hours in Article 91 of the Penal Code, which is twenty-four hours in the first article. D) If the purpose of the investigation may be compromised, only one of the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office will be informed on the condition of the person arrested or detained or suspended. The right of the suspect in custody to meet with the defendant can be restricted to 24 hours by the judge's decision, at the request of the prosecutor; no testimony can be taken during that time. F) Reports organised by law enforcement are only written in registration numbers instead of the public identity of interested officials. An invitation or a summons card issued in the situations in which law enforcement officers should be referred to is delivered to the law enforcement officer's work address. The statements and court transcripts of these individuals show the address of the workplace as their address. [[Constantly knocking on desks from CHP rows]] G) In order to ensure security, the hearing can be decided elsewhere. ) Cases filed are also handled on a judicial holiday. The exceptions to Article 135 of the Penal Code's Article 6 (a) sub-arm (8) do not apply in the sub-arm of Article 139 (a) sub-arm (2) and Article 140 (a) of Article 1 (a) on the subbelief (a) on the subbelief (a) on the subbelief (a) on the subbelief (8) of Article 139 (a). (4) Under the Turkish Penal Code; A) A charge of laundering the value of drug and stimulant drugs and trafficking in the organisation's activities or criminal property, B) Algebra and threats have been carried out in the scope of the activities of an organization founded to seek unfair economic gain, such as constantly knocking on the lids of CHP lines, standing ovations!), noise) C) Criminals (except Articles 305, 318, 319, 323, 324, 325 and 332), which have been identified in Sections Four, Five, Six and Seventh of the Second Section (except Articles 318, 319, 324, 325 and 332), have been held in court in accordance with Article One. The provisions of the third clause (e), (e), (f) and (h) are also carried out in investigations and prosecutions for these crimes. Five) The arrest period of the Turkish Penal Code, including Articles 305, 318, 319, 323, 324, 325 and 332, is doubled in crimes described in Sections 4, 5, 6, and 7. [It's a standing ovation, always banging on the lids, from the lines of the CHP!] (6) Children cannot be tried in the courts established under the provisions of these articles; these court-issued investigations and prosecution provisions do not apply in terms of children. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0498par0263	We appreciate it, Mr. President. [HPP rows on rows, rows on rows, standing applause!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0497par0264	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0499par0265	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit09spe0497par0266	I'm reading the reason: Articles 250, 251 and 252 of the Penal Code are hereby removed from our judicial system. [HPP rows on rows, rows on rows, standing applause!] Congressmans, please... At the same time, the Anti-Terror Law, in order to ensure that the prosecutors and judges who will conduct investigations and prosecutions related to these crimes under the intensity of terrorism crimes, are being organised by the Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors to be appointed by the decision of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, as part of this Law. The nature of the crimes involved in these courts is being considered and some procedures are being carried out. [HPP rows on rows, rows on rows, standing applause!] The investigation and prosecution of the third article (b) for the limited number of crimes in the context of the article has not been granted leave, no matter the role or adjective of the suspect or the defendant. However, it has been stipulated to act according to the rules of the law on investigations and prosecutions, including other crimes involving the Anti-Terror Act, but with exceptions, if it makes it necessary for a warrant or decision to be made. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. [AK PARTY's standing ovations; CHP's rows, boo-hoos, constantly knocking on rows, standing ovations!] I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0497par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 74th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 74th article has been accepted. [AK PARTY applause; Constantly knocking on rows, applause from CHP rows!] There are three motions on the 75th article, which I read and process: [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 75 of the 778 bench bill, we propose and propose that the declaration of the decree be removed from the draft text and added after the declaration of the Office of Techniques. Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat İbrahim Binci [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 75th draft of the 278th row bill. Article 4301 replaced by Article 3. Article 2. We propose and propose the addition of a benchmark from the Supreme Council of Prosecutors, which will be selected after the declaration of the Office of Financial Affairs. Ali Riza Özturk Bkent Tezcan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] I'll have the final motion read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 75 on bill 278. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Oktay Özturk Oktay Vural Nevzat is not afraid Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0500par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0497par0030	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0501par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0497par0033	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0502par0034	Motive.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0497par0035	I'm reading the reason: Our constitutional system has been introduced according to the principle of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities under that principle. It's the rule of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces, which sustains it. It has to be legitimate. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Claims, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary, eliminate the image of the state of law. The public responses that are aware of this erosion and the judicial reform packages are opening up one after the other to eliminate this negative atmosphere, and thus the public is stalling. The 3rd, which has created high expectations in society. The package of judicial reform has been seen to be far from meeting those expectations. The main motive is to speed up the judiciary and reduce the burden of heavy labor. However, the bill does not contain any concrete proposals to carry out these goals. The judicial reform package has also been seen to have led to the birth of the dead. The amendments to the Law on Justice and Bankruption shall not be made in the Law on Government and Punishment and Punishment, nor in other laws, nor shall our people continue to wait for years at the gates of the court, without any changes that contribute to the swift, fair, and effective fulfillment of the judiciary. Judicial decisions will always be controversial and condemned on the scales of justice. The Justice and Development Party, which has ruled alone for ten years, has not only solved chronicized problems in the country, but has always used the power given by the nation to exploit them. And today, instead of solving the problem that has been chronicizing over the years with the bill he's brought to Congress, he's also chosen to distract the public by pretending to solve it, pretending to do it. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. [[CHP rows always knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 75th draft of the 278th row bill. Article 4301 replaced by Article 3. Article 2. We offer and propose the addition of a benchmark from the Supreme Council of Prosecutors to the joke, as stated by the head of the Office of Financial Affairs. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0503par0055	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0497par0056	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0504par0057	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0497par0058	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0505par0059	The Flood Köse.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0497par0060	Flood Köse, Corrum MP. [Cheers and applause from the ranks of the AK PARTY, go on, go on!) (sounds))
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0506par0061	Mr. President, good lawmakers, the law will be needed one day. There will be a day when the Minister of Justice will need law here last night, crying out for revenge and attempting a coup by the hand of the judge. (Applause from CHP rows) The AKP Group will need law one day, supporting its numerical superiority with brute force, bringing a new law enforcement technique to its legal literature. Your arrangement today will return to you like a boomerang. There'll be no one here to hear you whine that day. There'll be no one left to hear your whining. I'm going to say something the Prime Minister likes very much: Eden will find it, and you will find it. (HIP rows) Today we would expect from the AKP Group: Special courts for the rule of law and the state of law would expect you to vote immediately and certainly not this evening without another name and appearance, but unfortunately you did not disappoint us again. My dear friends, if you have no special purpose, why do you insist on private court? Why don't you trust the state's criminal courts? Don't the state's criminal courts decide for this nation? Aren't they independent judgment, why don't you trust the criminal courts? Or are private jurisdictional courts an instrument of your state terror? Or is there no other way for you to maintain power, and that's why you're so wrapped up in private court? Or is it that most of you don't know what a private court is, except for those with special purpose? I'll tell you in a moment, my dear friends. Today, the anti-empireistic quality of our Battle of Salvation has been a crime in your time of power. Is that a crime? That's not a crime. Can you get any prosecutor, any judge, whose root is outside the congregation, to make such a crime description? Can such a crime be judged by a judge whose roots are outside, who is in America, who is not taking orders from a congregation in Pennsylvania? [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, the value we lose most in today's Turkey is to be fair. To be fair is to claim the rights of others first. But more importantly, to take care of his home, his poor people, his patriotic intellectuals, his laborer. Is that what special jurisdictional courts do? For example, it's a very close example. What was the charge that would require the arrest of Kemal Glek? He left his post fifteen years ago, hasn't been in office for fifteen years, and he's returning from his trip abroad, no doubt about running away. Why did you arrest him? Why has Mustafa Balbay been under arrest for over three years? Do you ever think about why Ilker Basbug is being held prisoner? Do you know what Ilker Basbug says? I visited him last week. I took the liberty of answering the charges against me. They tell me, why did you shut down the websites? You black out criminal evidence. They say that on one hand, but on the other, why didn't you open these websites? There was a preparation, you would have committed a crime, you did not open it for him. He says, "I will not answer such an dishonorable accusation." Do you know what Ahmet Hodja in the robe says? February 28th had a morality. My crime is anti- secularism. My guilt was clear, my punishment was clear: I slept, I went out with honor, I went out with honor. But are they? My robe doesn't hide anywhere, my beard doesn't hide anywhere, and my robe is on me, but it's not about Islam, it's about economics, it's about money. I'm a nationalist, I love my people, I'm a nationalist Muslim. That's what Ahmet Hodja in the robe says. My dear friends, do you know what thirty-year-old Barakoglu says? Just so you know, none of them are at fault. Justice is the only thing that hasn't entered Silivri. Muyesser Star has been released on the same charge. If he's been released, why isn't he letting me go? That's what he said. Twenty-eight years old, web site manager, no other crime. Now, my dear friends, arrest is a mandatory act of injustice, arrest is a precaution; lawyers know that, they need certain conditions. And in the matter of arrest, the judges have been given a wide range of discretion in our law....
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0507par0069	Thank you, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0506par0070	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0507par0071	I just explained that. Thank you. [HPP rows on rows, clapping!] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 75 of the 778 bench bill, we propose and propose that the declaration of the decree be removed from the draft text and added after the declaration of the Office of Techniques. Ayla Akat (Batman) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0508par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0507par0081	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0509par0082	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0507par0083	Ayla Akat Akat, Batman MP. Mr. Ancestor, if you'd like to take five more minutes of the time used by other groups...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0510par0085	Okay... thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on the 75th amendment of the proposed bill, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers are today on the country's agenda as a problem with prisons. Last time there was a case in Urbana. But one more important thing to be noted is that prisons, especially in prisons in the region -- Mr. Secretary here -- have reached 300 percent. The number across the country may be 200 per cent, but the district prisons have reached 300 per cent. Now, some partial measures are being taken. What are these precautions? In particular, the Black Sea and the Aegean try to reduce the rate of hail by transferring women to Shakran, especially women, and again women to Sincan. Is that a solution? No. It's got two different things in it. First of all, there is a problem for those who have been transferred, especially for those who have been sent to the Black Sea prison as a transfer, that the families of those who have gone have security problems. We have a situation open to any provocation. Secondly, and more importantly, there's a direct human rights violation, which means families who can't visit their children from the county have to go to prisons at least 400, 500, 600, 700 kilometers away. Their economic situation is not available, nor are their social conditions available. And what does that mean? It means the right to direct family opinion has been taken from them. So, is this the way to deal with the filling rate in prisons? No, that shouldn't happen. I just told you, we can't stop people from expressing their thoughts by filling out prisons. Let's review that the prisons -- which are no longer in Turkey -- are now far from being a detention center for all prisons in Turkey. The one who goes to prison is on the basis of getting out of jail for once. This is the case for friends who are in prison, especially under the provisions of the Turkish Penal Code, which have been set up in catalog crime. And the prisons have one deterrent left? No, I don't. Today, if the filling rate has hit 300 per cent, in every social event, in every democratic action, the number of detentions is increasing day by day, and yet people do not take a step back from demanding democratic rights and freedoms, it shows that the provisions that we discussed today and desired to be changed do not have a response in society. Despite these laws, society does not shut up, society does not give up its demand for rights and freedom despite these laws, society does not give up its democratic action initiative despite these laws. He's still on the street. Why? Because he's right. Yes, you have 326 MPs; yes, you have water that you use in every social action, you have batons, you have pepper gasses, and they cost people their lives, but there's only one thing that people on the street are behind, and that's that they're right. It's right that the filly rate in prisons has reached 300 percent, but they're still struggling to keep the channels open that they can express themselves. There will be another giant rally in Diyarbakır on the 14th. We know that this event -- the most democratic action, the event, the rally -- can also be blocked by antidemocratic laws, decisions, which today is the decision of a political party, but tomorrow we will see, the governor of Diyarbakır will find that he has the power to prevent it, again. That's the problem right there, fellas. He doesn't live in a community home, he doesn't stop going out on the streets, he doesn't stop screaming for democratic rights and freedom because he's right. And that's the point where we have to argue on the common ground at this point of right, and we have to find a solution under this roof of Parliament. Dear friends, we don't just have a history of republican history. We have a union that dates back to the history of the Republic, from 1071, to this day, as a Turkish and Kurdish society. However, the fact remains: The Kurds began to rebel, along with their centralisation trends that began during the Mahmoud period. And we're discussing the consequences of the 29th rebellion. If that's the rate of hail in prisons today, yes, that's the result of the riot. And again, it's important to emphasize: where did the last 30 years of war begin? When we look for answers to the question, we go straight back to Diyarbakır Prison, where the persecution was done there, where the torture, yes, brought today with it. So, why do we insist on a method that has been tried in the past but has failed? If persecution in Diyarbakır Prison has brought this day to this day, if the last 30 years of war have brought material, spiritual losses, why do we insist on it? Why is the fill rate of prisons in the region up to 300 percent? Don't these people have families or relatives? You're just multiplying by the number of people in prison? No, it's not the number of people in prison; each of them has family, relatives, acquaintances, and they're all getting political on those prison doors. I was four years old in 1980, I only went to the prison door for my brother, but the desire and desire of those waiting at the prison gate today is not as I was thirty years ago, there is no such reality. It's not like 32 years ago, it's a much more dangerous situation, Turkey, and now we have to take precautions. We thought we'd take these laws with these laws, with these judicial packages, that at least we'd open the way for freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of organization, that people would believe in the struggle for rights and freedom, that we could get political results, that they'd believe in it, that they'd want to, but we found that there's no such thing in this bill. If that's the way we trust society, if that's our way of building trust in existing politics in society, then we're in serious error and error. What happened here today, what happened tonight, at least, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Canikli, should have said two words from this stand. If that's the justice of the majority, if that's the way the administration is in Turkey, it's impossible for us to take a step away, but we have to see the threats we face tomorrow, the reality we face tomorrow, and we have to get results today. The first thing I'm going to say is, those who don't know their past are always doomed to remain children, but we have a saying, I don't know how much meaning it will lose when you translate it into Turkish, but it says, "I'll hold your ear and I'll show you around the world." The other says to him, "But you'll travel with me." Therefore, treatment will not only result in Kurdish society in the region, but will result in Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0511par0099	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0512par0102	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0511par0103	I will submit the motion to your votes, but I will grant it to you: Mr. Hamzaçebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Firat, Mr. Özk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Serandag, Mr. Süceer, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Öner, Mr. Acar, Mr. Köse, Mr. Kösese, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Oran. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 76th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 76 of the 278 rows of the bill, we propose and propose that the six months of the law be replaced by five months in exchange for the article text. Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat İbrahim Binici Congressmans, the other two motions are the same property, so I'll have them read them and process them together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 53rd draft of the currently in session, 278 rows. Article 76 of the Justice Commission report. Subsequently, we propose that it be replaced in the following way. Article 76-9/6/2004 of Article 5187 of Press Law 26. The first joke of the article was added as a terms of judgment after the declaration of the criminal trials, and was changed in the form of two months, six months, four months, one year, and six months in the article. Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Attila Kart Turgut Dibek Mahmut Tanal Gürkut Acar Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Balık Köse Mevlüt Dudu == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Ali Öz Alim Iş Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0513par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0511par0140	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0514par0141	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0511par0142	Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu has asked for a statement on the proposal, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0515par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed lawmakers to change the 76th amendment of Bill 278. I salute your high council. I'm a 24th-century MP, first-time MP, this is the first time I've had this honor in Parliament, and I've been observing Parliament for a year. So what I've come up with is that there's a overwhelming majority of the ruling party, and there's a overwhelming majority of the occupational groups of lawyers and the majority of those overwhelming majority, and I'm watching with evidence that the law, the Civil Charter, and the Constitution have been violated so easily, and that these actions, and these actions, have come from within the ruling party. So the law is too valuable to be handed over to the lawyers. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Of course, when you say "law," you have to talk about the state of law. We, the National Movement Party, want a system of justice that people can trust without hesitation, where the sense of justice is placed in the minds and hearts. We say that justice, basic rights and freedoms should be the basis of the state. We say that judges and prosecutors should have integrity and conscience, that the facility of judgment justice should be considered a guarantee of trust in the judiciary. We believe that preventing the crime from happening should be the justice policy of well-adjusted judges and prosecutors, after the crime has been committed, for a healthy return of evidence and information to the courts, for the courts to make an independent, fast and correct decision, for the process to be activated, for the use of information technologies, for the employment of well-developed judges and prosecutors. In this framework, we are sincerely committed to the basic principles of the legal state, which finds its soul in the mouth of the Constitution. So, what's a law state? I think our friends at the ruling party should listen and understand this much better. The legal state has its principles. The most important thing that separates the state of law from the police state is that the state of law is subject to the rules of law, not to admirable rules. The most important of the principles of the legal state is the safety of basic rights. As the modern society progresses around the world, new approaches are adopted under this principle, but the landscape we have seen in Turkey in recent years is highly violated by the right to fair trial, freedom of communication and similar situations. Another rule of law is the judicial control of the constitution. It is one of the basic attributes of the state of law to be audited by the Constitutional Court of Law. The ruling party, which is uncomfortable with the implementation of this principle, has now transformed the Constitutional Court into an office of power, government, by changing the structure of the Constitutional Court. Let's not get into the generality of the law. In your ten-year mandate, the chain, which begins with CHP-AKP co-operation, which begins with eliminating Erdogan's criminal record and completing his ability to be elected, is the appropriate punishment for the late Necmettin Erbakan's disappearance in the trillion cases, the kidnapping of the Undersecretary of MIT and the suspension of a journalist MP in this bill today. That's one of the breaking principles of the state of law. What about the judicial audit of the administration? 2/B is the best example of preventing the decision to stop the execution, the violation of the rule of judicial control of the administration. What about the independence of the courts and the trust of the judge? There are dozens of examples of this, but we can only remind you of the Lighthouse. And the principle of separation of forces is one man, one who is burning with the desire to become a sultan -- you know very well who that person is -- with the help of the majority of you in the House who are dishing it out for him. Honourable MPs, this is where you bring the Turkish state under the concept of law and justice. But you're the only one responsible for this painting that I can count a part of. The AKP, which has been in power for ten years, has squandered its right to rule so long and so strong that the Turkish nation has not given to anyone. The AKP saw all state institutions, particularly the judiciary, as a fortress to conquer. First he discredited the institutions, then he took over and began to rule. It's not the state tent state that we should remind and the AKP should remember. The Turkish people are not a group; they are a people who will never accept it. This painting will swallow the AKP, and it will destroy history, make sure of it. I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0516par0159	Thank you. Any other say in the same motion? Flood Köse, Corrum MP.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0517par0162	My dear friends, I've just tied my words to this: " Arresting is a necessary injustice. " So if you're threatening the freedom of someone's freedom, if you're limiting it, you have to take very good care of it. Well, do special authorities fit any of the criteria for arrests? It doesn't fit any of them, I just told you, it doesn't fit any of them. So, what's the use of these long arrests, the immediate arrests? Or is the goal the philosophy of full independence, the quality of full independence of our National Liberation War? The goal is to silence our patriotic intellectuals, journalists, politicians, and to reinforce the exploitation of international capitalism, their collaborative reptiles? If that's not your goal, do you ever wonder why your special-duty courts that can afford patriotic intellectuals can't afford injustice, corruption, robberies? Why can't the power of your special-duty courts to the Republican People's Party municipalities reach AKP-based municipalities? I told you here last week that the trial against the mayor of Çorum and two members of the City Council has not been searched one day in their homes, they haven't been taken out of their homes in the morning. Do you know why you don't collect fines for lawmakers from Justice and Development Party businessmen when your tax agencies can easily reach non-profit businessmen, and why you've been scrutinizing them and the powers of the court that brought them out? 40 trillion, Kütahya Sugar Factory... My dear friends, I told you today was a judgmental coup. Not all the time with tanks and rifles, taking over the government, most of the time it doesn't. Within the state bureaucracy, within the criminal bureaucracy, the holding of key bridge heads within the MIT and police bureaucracy, the establishment of sovereignty in decision-making, in a way, is the occupation of the state. That's what happened today. You brag about democracy, every time you open your mouth. Do you know when the special duty courts were set up? It was founded during the March 12th fascist dictatorship. Did you know that? From the courts established during the coup in 1971, setting up advanced democracy will likely be part of the Justice and Development Party. How insincere is that? Finally, I'm going back to what I was saying when I started, although the Minister of Justice has left, and he will not be called Minister of Justice in any legal state. The law will be needed one day, one day the Minister of Justice will need it, and one day the AKP Group will need it. And there's no apocalypse, my dear friends. The Minister of Justice will not only answer in front of this Assembly one day, he will not answer in front of this parliament, but in front of our poor people, who will judge on behalf of the Turkish nation, and will one day answer, and be judged, and above all, before history. The Republican People's Party will continue to express the longings of all decent people who have been wronged, as it has been so far. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0518par0172	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 76 of the 278 rows of the Bill of Law, we propose and propose that the subsidiary of the subsidiary of the six months (6 months) be replaced by five months (5 months). Fair Wolf and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0519par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0518par0180	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0520par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0518par0182	It's Fair Wolf, Hakkari MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0521par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Mr. Nurettin Canikli has just made a compromise speech here. In fact, it's important to take into account every word that's been made to compromise, every statement that's been made to compromise needs to be underlined, but while everyone else is saying it, in this Parliament, when everyone is expressing the importance of compromise, the reasons why there is no compromise here should be questioned, and the ruling party should first question itself at this point. I'll share with you the story of a grapeman. I don't think Mr. Canikli is here, but he's bound to share this story with me if we come face-to-face on occasion. It's not my intention, Mr. Canicli, so I'm trying to address the idea that the ruling party is acting on its axis right now. A man gathered his grapes in his village and took them to sell them to the neighboring village. Another passenger he meets on the road says to him: "Essela munalekum. The greeter is surprised. I give you the greeting of God, why do you call me "No?" He says, "If you're so curious, I'll share it with you." I'm going to say peace, and then you're going to say peace, and then you're going to say, "What's your rule?" I'm going to say, "My mouth is dry, let me eat it." You're going to say, "I don't have it." It's as simple as that. We are not running from compromise, dear friends, not seeking reconciliation, not opposition, but opposition does not make itself responsible for making the ruling party's job difficult. Since we are faced with a ruling logic that answers, there is no compromise. What happened tonight might not have happened. It's very sensible, it's well-advised here. Sadly, this is what happened this evening, because they were given answers from the front. There's a press issue going on, and I'm gonna keep going on. In Turkey, it is shameful to even talk about pardoning or transfer of press crimes. There's a lot to be done before it gets here. In a country where the media is designed by the ruling party and the government every period, it is not elegant to have press crimes postponed, repatriated or spoken about. How many journalists are in prison right now? Dear friends, because of this arrangement, not one journalist will be released from prison because journalists are not on trial because of the Press Law, but because of the Anti-Terror Act. The journalist is not on trial for his article, for his writing, unfortunately, he is now in prison for being treated as a terrorist because of his writing, and today, with this legal arrangement, not a single 110 journalists in this country will benefit from the arrangement you have brought in this article. How do we explain this tomorrow, or what do you say? Are you saying we got the reporters out of prison? No. This arrangement has nothing to do with him. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Six is an empty arrangement, and it's unlikely, unfortunately, to find a radical solution to our problems within a parliamentary structure that does not really discuss the problem.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0522par0194	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0523par0197	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0522par0198	I'll submit the clause to your votes, but I'll grant you a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Demirçallı, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. İkkturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Ören, Mr. Yüyükoğlu, Mr. Batum, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Tamayligil, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Acar, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kümur. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on Article 77; I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article No. 278, "The First Amendment to Laws in the Purpose of Activisation of Law Services" is to be replaced as "Additions, Official property management and other authorities" and to be added to "knowledge and evidence" in the first sentence of Article 5187, under which the framework of Article 77 shall be added to the Law. Mahir Ünal Ahmet Aydın Osman Your love Look Akif Çağatay Kılıç Ahmet Berat Çonkar Salih Husband Mihrimah Belma Koran Zeynep Karahan Good Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mine Lök White Mustafa Stream This is the 77th draft of the 778-tiered Bill. ===Temporary 3===Additional 3. We propose and propose that the date of 31,12,2011 be changed to 30,06,2012. Turgut Dibek M. Akif Hamzacebi Bkent Tezcan Engin Özkoç Ahmet Toptaş Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 77 of the 278 rows of the Bill of Law, and in Article 5187, we propose and recommend that the subsidiary of the subscribing of the subsidiary of the subsidiary month be replaced by the text of the article. Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat İbrahim Binici Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Secret Sakık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 77th draft of the 778-tiered Bill. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Ali Öz Alim Ik Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0524par0242	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0522par0243	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0525par0244	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0522par0245	On the motion...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0526par0246	Mehmet Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0522par0247	Mehmet Erdogan, Müğla MP, please.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0527par0249	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 77 of Proposition 277. I hereby salute your high council. Now, with the 77th article, a very serious, open-ended pardon is coming; it is unclear when it began. All gathering decisions made by 2011 have been eliminated, concerning the press. These are the judges and prosecutors, who are already under the burden of work, who will be able to re-canvass all of these archives and decide whether to reconsider or not, within six months the restraining order on this issue will be removed. Now, that's a very open pardon. Among them, there are those who are banned from organization propaganda, there are those who are banned from pornography, there are those who are banned from things we can't think of. If you're going to bring a pardon, at least give them a new application. How are you going to answer to society tomorrow because of the release of such uncertain mathematics, which, in fact, we don't understand, should be removed from the text. Now, of course, there are also those who have been banned on September 12th, March 12th and so on, but I wish you'd given them the right to apply again instead of a full pardon. Now, you know, we're talking about the contents of this package of justice, but we're talking about it in about a week when more than 10 percent of the justice system is closed. Yesterday, when the Minister of Justice was answering our questions, he said: "We have closed by three criteria: if there is a courthouse less than 10 miles [15 km] from here, if there is less than 1,200 cases, if the central district population is 12,000, if the total population is less than 30,000." Now, two courts have been closed in Mugla, one of which is Dalaman, and one of which is the Ula court. According to these criteria, maybe the Ula court can deliver water, but Dalaman's court must not be closed. If the Justice Department is going to enforce its own rules with justice, the Dalaman district has a central population of 25,000 and a total population of 35,000. What kind of logic is that? I mean, why are they fooling us here, why are they fooling your people, why are they fooling 35,000 people in Dalaman? It's really hard to understand. We will build again those who deal with my appearance, those who build those mobile courts, and those who say, "If necessary." Of course, it is in their ears that Murat Varlıel, the driver of the vehicle carrying bread to the police station in Tunceli Ovacık, today was kidnapped by the PKK. In broad daylight today, at 2:30 p.m., we will re-trial in Habur, if necessary, from your appearance. Those who took courage from your mind attacked the border guard at Çukurca. I don't think any of you know about this. Again, one of our governors, two of our policemen, two of our teachers, and dozens of others whose names we don't know have been in the hands of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) for about a year; neither the Minister of Justice nor the Minister of Interior, unfortunately, are aware of them. Now, please remember this once again when you promise to set up a mobile court for Habur, if necessary. You have not only made it difficult for the people who live there to bring justice, but you have broken down the homes of all the workers of justice, and all the children of the school, and you have plundered all of them; you have left them with a reassignment, a new migration, and a new order. Again, hundreds of lawyers serving in those counties will be forced to move their offices to the courthouses. You've broken the order of those lawyers. These changes you've made, I hope, will one day break your order. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0528par0257	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 278. In accordance with the 77th amendment of the number-one bill, we propose and propose that the subsistence of the subsistence of the subscribing of the subsidiary of the subsidiary of Article 5187 shall be replaced by the subsidiary of the article. Ayla Akat (Batman) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0529par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0528par0265	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0530par0266	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0528par0267	Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0531par0268	Mr. President, my dear friends, I'd like to start by respecting our will and the will of our people. Yeah, we're going through some unpleasant things. I mean, we're the opposition party, so we're not in a position to approve everything that the government brings in, but we've just been talking to a lot of friends here in the 74th article that's caused the controversy, obviously and clearly, for years, the victims of this work have been abandoned to the mercy of prosecutors again, and I'm sure, Mr. Secretary, who brought this law, because I know well, and I know how he's sensitive to certain things, but I believe that this law is in his conscience, and we're talking to a lot of friends, but what, for God's sake, is a Parliament that it can't create its own law, and I'm sure, it's a country can't create its own law, because I know it's a law, and I know it's a law, and I know it's a law, and I know it's a law. Is there peace or brotherhood here? There's a fight coming out of here. So there's already a culture in this country where the majority dominates, destroys, lynches, kills, and so is the street, and so is every aspect of life, and so is the founding of the republic, and the republic is almost a hundred years old, and so is it. Now, in my entire life, my philosophy of life has always been: optimism. That's my ideology, but even if I'm losing my optimism, I see that there's no way we can live together, so there's no sisterhood law. E, if there's no sisterhood law, there's a neighborhood law, and there's no neighborhood law, this country can't be run by a bully law. Now, then, what do you have to do? Those who say that they will answer from September 12th are ruling from the Constitution of September 12th, from the Law of Political Parties, from the Law of Elections. September 12th brought in March 12th and September 12th, military courts, state security courts, and after that, private court courts, and a new kind of court today. Where? It's the product of September 12th, the product of soldiers. So what you need to do is, you know, now that you're judging the Kenan Universe, and you're bragging about it, and there's only one thing you're going to do: there's an annual award service ceremony in this House, and whoever has contributed a lot to democracy and business in this country, this Parliament will give them rewards. This year, I suggest you, because if your reason for being is the laws and the Constitution of September 12th, don't judge the Kenan Universe, bring here, just as this Parliament has given plaques to those who have operated in prisons and slaughtered them in the past, then return to the Kenan Universe, and give a plaque like this. Otherwise, you can't be convincing. On the one hand, the Law on Political Parties and Elections, which they bring in from one side, to form this power with a 10 per cent threshold, which means that you have nine years of power, plus three years of life, which is a power made by the Kenan Universe. You owe him a diet. Go back to him, give him a plaque, and we'll thank you. There's no other way. But if you're not going to do that, and you're really going to put the stones of democracy in place, you have to step back from it. This bill that you passed tonight, I assure you, for our children, for our future, for our country, for our peace of mind, was a bad one for Turkey, and you were a victim of these laws. How early did you forget, for God's sake, how early did you forget that the people who came with the will of the people were ruled out, and do you know what happened? You've become Ankaran, you've become a state. We had hope from you, from Anatolia, we had expectations then, and now we've lost hope. You entered Ankara's order and entered the monopoly of the state. May the state and Ankara bless you, but we will defeat them with our people. Hey, y'all.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0532par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0533par0278	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0532par0279	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Special, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Demirçeli, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Firat, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Çağirdereli, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kören, Mr. Güven, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Acar. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 77th edition of the 778th Order Numbered Legislature. ===Temporary 3===Inclusion with Article 3. We propose and propose that the date of 31,12,2011 be changed to 30,06,2012. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0534par0295	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0532par0296	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0535par0297	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0532par0298	Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0536par0300	Mr. President, I'm going to begin to tell you now about the major democratic developments in the AKP era.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0537par0302	Why are you silent? Yeah, nothing good at all?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0536par0303	No.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0537par0305	Nothing good? There's nothing to tell about democracy!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0536par0306	No.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0537par0307	Yeah, tell me something, something good!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0536par0308	No.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0538par0310	Tell Bekir Bozdağ.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0537par0311	You're a big congressman, and you can't find anything to say?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0539par0312	He's speechless.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0540par0313	Mr. Çelebi, please address the Parliament, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0541par0314	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0540par0315	Mr. Hamzacebi, this is not the way to do it. Mr. Çelebi will be out of time, and then...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0542par0316	Speech-impaired!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0543par0317	Mr. Çelebi, isn't there any improvement in this democracy? There's only one thing to tell...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0540par0318	Congressmans, why are you being so uncomfortable? It's not understood. Mr. Çelebi won't say anything. Please... [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0544par0319	Mr. President, he's saying a lot of things, if you understand...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0543par0320	He's saying a lot to anyone who understands, Mr. President. I understand a lot of what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0545par0321	So you're saying it's a mosquito reed.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0546par0322	Silence comes from a plea.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0547par0323	Of course, Mr. Chelebi.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0548par0325	Mr. President, don't come to the point of losing your neutrality.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0547par0326	Please, Mr. Special. Mr. Çelebi is speaking on the stand, please...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0549par0327	But Mr. President also acknowledges and acknowledges AKP's unlawfulness.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0547par0328	Mr. Lawmakers, please, let's hear from Mr. Çelebi. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0549par0329	What's Mr. Bekir going to say about this tease? Mr. President, Mr. Hatip Bekir has teased Mr. Bekir, so promise me you'll give him your word for bullying.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0550par0330	Actually, it's nice that they always do that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0551par0331	You're yelling too much!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0552par0332	Mr. Mustafa, this is how you want the opposition, isn't it? What a beautiful democracy!
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0553par0333	And since they don't talk to each other...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0554par0334	Mr. President, invite the preacher to calm down, he's screaming a lot.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0555par0335	Mr. President, will you give me an extension?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0556par0336	Mr. Çelebi, if you'd like to collect your speech.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0557par0338	Mr. President, give me an extension.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0555par0339	Mr. President, if you'd like to give us an extension, vote on it. He speaks well.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0558par0340	Mr. President, give me an additional minute.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0557par0341	The government achieves its goal; it silences the nation, lawmakers are silenced. [Cheers and applause from the ranks of the AK PARTY!]
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0559par0342	Here you go, Mr. Çelebi. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0560par0343	I told you guys about the AKP democracy. I explained where advanced democracy brought Turkey.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0559par0345	Mr. Çelebi, thank you for this lovely conversation.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0561par0348	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0559par0349	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Special, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Demirçeli, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Sardibaş, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kören, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Örer, Mr. Çalebi, Mr. Değirmendereli, Mr. Küğüroğlu. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of the 278 Terms of the first sentence, "The Courts of Laws in the purpose of Enactment of Justice Services" shall be changed to "Results of Laws Against Charges and Suspension of Punishments Against Press Road" and shall be added to "knowledge and evidence" in the second sentence, which shall be included in the first sentence of Article 5187. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0562par0365	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0559par0366	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0563par0367	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0564par0368	Motive...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0559par0369	I'm reading the reason: The current application has proposed amendments to include such decisions, as there are laws-based decision-making, banning, distribution and the prevention of sales issued by property managers and other administrative authorities outside the courts. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0565par0375	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-07-01sit10spe0559par0376	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Kören, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Sarýbaş, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Yüpeer, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Çeğirindereli, Mr. Küğüroğlu, Mr. Öğermerinderderelı, Mr. Öyükoğlu, Mr. Öçer, Mr. Öner, Mr. Öner, Mr. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
