tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The talking time is five minutes each. The government has the right to respond to these conversations, for 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement is from İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca, who has asked for the institution of Child Protective Services. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-top-the-top promise due to the anniversary of June 30th Child Protective Services. I salute your high council. At the heart of national policy, the child and the child in need of protection must hold an important place. The social services issue and thus the Child Welfare Agency have a long history in Turkey. The founding and development of Turkey's first social service institution, the Ethphal Society of Turkey, is long and old. The community was founded on June 30, 1921, to protect the orphaned and poor children of families who emigrated to Anatolia because of the wars. In 1921, the number of branches of the association was increased to 612. As of 1935, Turkey was named after the Children's Protection Agency. The 2828 SSHKEK Law, which aims to attract only one social services, was issued in 1983. With this Law, it aims to collect a certain amount of disorganized child protective services. In 2007, the institution budget, which was 121 million in 2002, is 500 per cent, and has increased by 500 per cent to 791 million euros during the EC PARTY, which is of great importance to children and children in need of protection. Despite all these improvements, the goal again is to establish a child protection policy in Turkey, which is holistic, comprehensive, and is active and integrated by all institutions. As a result, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been established by shutting down Social Services and Child Protective Services, as it is known. According to the same decree, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy also established the National Directorate for Children's Services, and accelerated their work as of December 31st. Social Services has been able to assess the child issue with a holistic approach, along with the closure of Child Protective Services and the transfer to General Manager. In addition, the protection system aims to support the family and the child together, not only for reasons such as family disintegration or death. According to 2011 figures, the 29,900 family-backed children, 8.367 -- please note that the number of children returned from the institution to the family has reached 8,367 -- have been identified as 1,237 and our children under institutional care are 13.908. All of this is included in the EC PARTY programme, and today the model of love homes and children's homes has been moved from the ward model where 20 or 25 people live in day care centres and foster homes. Seven shelters, care and rehabilitation centres have been opened for children who have been forced into crime, and 23 care and social rehabilitation centres have been opened to address the traumas and behavioral disorders of children who have been subjected to emotional, sexual and physical abuse. Thousands of children who had to work on the street have been restored to education. Children's rights have been adopted into the Constitution, and all under the age of eighteen shall be considered children. Again, in the Anti-Terror Law, our children, known as the children who threw stones, were also prevented from being judged as adults. The standards recommended by the United Nations and the Council of Europe also include the actions needed to be carried out between 2012-2016. As a result, the issue of protecting children, one of the most radical service policies in our republic's history, has been marked by radical changes and great achievements in targeting international standards over the past decade. In a society where our children have internalized their children's rights, in which they are lovingly protected, in which they wish to be brought up free of abuse, without poverty, without suffering, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Yıldıay Sapan, Antalya-Konya MP, who asked for a statement on the change of the province's border. Here you go, Mr. Sapan.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, I've been promised outside the agenda of the amendment to the Antalya-Coniah border. I salute you all. My dear friends, what I'm about to tell you is not a movie script, nor is it published in the Yeşilçam belt, but is not starring Erol Taş, Önder Somer, Kenan Pars, or Coshkun the rapist. This is completely unreal, this is extraordinary, and you can call it brilliant, end-of-the-line. Those who were unable to obtain a quarry license from Antalya did something mind-boggling with their friends. What do you think they did? Hold on. When Antalya was unable to obtain a license, they obtained a license to dig up Antalya's land for stone and marble. But you can't give me a license for Antalya land. You'll say that, won't you? It does, it does. How? By linking that area to Iconium, by changing the border. So, who did it? The ruling supporters who realized they couldn't get a quarry license from Antalya. How did they do it? Who did they make you do it to? Obama's most unsuccessful foreign minister of the Republic of Turkey, whom Obama called to him with that famous finger mark, had him do it, as it were, in a manner of speaking. In foreign policy, Davutoglu, who became the most unsuccessful minister of the Republic of Turkey, showed how successful he was when it came to profiting on the side.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0005par0028	You need to know what success is.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0004par0029	How? Isn't she a goblin? I took off my hat. Looks like they've been modified to runt. I don't want Nobel to be angry, but I think it's a 2012 Nobel laureate. The repertoire on the side income-producing elements has expanded quite a bit. Dear friends, the promised land is located in the Gembos Endemic District, the land of the Golden cradle National Park. This is the area given to the World Forest Organization for protection. Under it is the world's second largest underground lake at the age of five billion. This is the habitat of wild goats. The likeness is covered with plants and flowers that are nowhere to be found. This is a geofite paradise. There are trees between three and seven hundred years old. These places were once green, and now like this... until AKP's marble machines came in here. Now it's all covered in marble dust, as you can see. This land, which has been of Antalya since the Ottomans, was suddenly the province of Konya, in one night or even one hour, with the recommendation of Davutoglu, Abdullah Gul, İdris Naim Şahin, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. The mindset of the left lobes of their brains, which, unfortunately, called the paradise of Antalya, was razed to the ground for the sake of Rant. Ali Erkan, our member of the City General Assembly, brought this to justice, and we thank him from here. I've made many explanations, I've filed a question motion, I've submitted a research motion, but no one's saying anything. So, what do you think the AKP MPs of Antalya did? They're not making a sound. Yes, they gutted Antalya's lungs, but there was nothing of them; they were frightened, frightened, faint, and preferred to play three monkeys. In a word, shame on you! The vote you take is forbidden. The MP protects, maintains, maintains the rights of his province, raises his voice when necessary. It is a duty of honor to defend the rights of the citizen and the city he lives in. People didn't send us here to be mute devils. So, we won't be silent in the face of injustice, but I understand, they have the sword of Rantun; they have the world's most incompetent Foreign Minister and AKP supporters; they have the ego; they have the support of AKP President Recep Erdogan, Abdullah Gul, İdris Naim Şahin; they have the sense of ownership of the trinity; they have the green hoses on their heads. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs I just told you about...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0006par0034	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0004par0035	You listen, you answer. That's how interested you are! This incident, which I have just told me about, which makes me take my hat off, also shows a hostile attitude towards those who don't think like him, against those who don't, rather than to play with the boundaries of a province for the runt of AKP's supporters. Apparently, the AKP has failed to accept its defeat in the local elections. This attitude, after the election defeat of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was revealed to me eight times, would this be okay? He didn't respect the public's preference, but he did resort to punishment. He suspended investments that were already inadequate after 2009. The final stage of the punishment is the connectivity of Antalya territory. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But these pressures, injustices, violations of our borders, can't scare the Antalians. On the contrary, it will increase our reactions, and the border rapists will be slapped in the first election.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0007par0040	Thank you, Mr. Sapan. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, who asked for a comment on Bitlis' problems. Here you go, Mr. Zenderlioglu.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0008par0045	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to Bitlis' problems. I hereby salute you with respect, with love. I also condemn the method of detainment in the operation against KESK. The district of Adilcevaz, which was geographically close to Bitlis, also suffered major damage due to the earthquake in Van (October 23, 2011). Thank God there was no loss of life here, but there was no loss of property. No official contribution has been made until then. With all the help of the public, the people spent the winter in those nylon tents, and some of the people migrated to the metropolitan areas and maintained themselves until spring. However, the capital of this district, Adilcevaz Municipality and Aydınlar district, are also run by the mayors of the AKP (AKP), which is in their care. However, it is evident that no help has been given to these municipalities and municipalities so far. But I want to say, why did this government not help the people who were hurt in this earthquake? Why hasn't he done a project on these so far? Why did they watch it happen? Four of the 19 villages that were inhospitable were completely destroyed. Did they also help Akçira, Peninsula, Lower Abuphan, Heybeli, Arunus, and other villages? Do they have any reports on these? Do they have a project or a study program on it? I'm asking the ministers. What did you do when the people were going through this difficult time? Where were you when he was screaming and screaming? You've watched these sufferings. Mr. Secretary, that you've been conducting work on Van... in these studies, no mention of Fairmouth and no interest in the problems of Fairmouth. When will they deal with the problems of this Fairmouth? I wonder, like the Adiltics, when the dwellings in the villages of Fairmouth will be scheduled. There's a second problem in our Ahlat district. Of course, in autumn, most of our farmer's sugar beets and potato products remained in the field. You know, winter started very early, and the earthquake left the crops in the field. So far, these people have had no help because of this affliction. Now, I ask you, does the Minister of Agriculture do any work on this? We've had our motions for this, and they've been tried to avoid them in the form of a purely fantasy. Of course, in addition to these problems, the biggest problem is health problems, unemployment problems. Maybe the unemployment problem is Turkey's problem, but Bitlis is the top problem because there is no production. Many products are not planted today, even doubting that they can't find markets. Of course, tobacco that had been planted has been banned, and sugar beets have been quotad. Therefore, there is no study in this area. We have a town called a bow. The mayor of that town has been applying over and over for a garbage truck. Unfortunately, we haven't had this garbage car in two years, and they're even saying that if a AKP MP makes a phone call, maybe we can give you this garbage car. For God's sake, put your hands on your conscience, so what are we doing here, and why are we here? I mean, if bureaucracy can go this far, I wonder what the law is for. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll take turns... problems in Tatvan County: You know Tatvan Municipality is from BDP...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0009par0055	Mr. Zenderlioğlu, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0008par0056	If you'll excuse me one more minute...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0009par0057	No, it's not like that, please. It's the same to everyone...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0008par0058	There's an airport problem. The response to our motions for this airport is: "There will be no such airport." Unfortunately, our Bitlis MPs have made statements here. Now, should we believe the Minister or the MPs? The credit is yours. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0009par0061	Thank you. Now, I'm going to promise our friends who've been in the system a minute, in order of their location. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0010par0066	Mr. President, thank you. The country's animalism, its agriculture, its fate, Mr. Minister of Agriculture doesn't show up at the House, he's not around. Horses show that this disease -- it's also called dumb-dumb disease -- has not been in our country for years. A state elder of ours is given a horse from Iraq, that horse gets sick where it lives, three of the police horses are put to sleep with a needle, there's nothing in the ministry. Shap disease scorches the country, millions of Turkish liras are lost, the ministry is clean. Crimea Congo's bleeding to death, and the Ministry's dead again. There's a 10 percent increase in the price of wheat, so 10 cents higher, the peasant's a mess, we can't see an official here. In this regard, I warn the Ministry officials, the group, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0009par0068	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. As I said yesterday, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been closed to 146 courts, including the courts of Kütahya Province, Domanic and the districts of Şaphane, with the 15/6/2012 verdict and 347 of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' decision to resume their duties where they were. The population of these 44 courts is lower than the population of the district of Domanic, and the population of 13 is lower than the population of the district of Shaphane. The province of Kütahya, Domanic and the people of the Shaphan, are in revolt, standing. I demand that this injustice be put to an end at once, and that the Justice Department reconsider this decision, and that the districts that have been wronged across the country will be restored, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0012par0074	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I would like to announce a plea by Artvin Forester village headman Baydar. In the village of Artvin Forestland, the local traffic station was founded at this time, today morning, at the end of a thousand trees. Armed with the carabinieri, the Forest Service teams came and rushed in to stamp it. Our concerned village chief -- I just mentioned -- even though he had made attempts to prevent this from happening in the administration, although he had appealed to the judiciary, unfortunately his applications were inconclusive and began by sending forest crews to the government. I've tried to address this cry in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the chief of this village and the village's cry. Hopefully, the authorities will hear and stop this massacre, this murder, and we'll stop cutting down a thousand trees. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0015par0083	Mr. President, a war with society is still going on, it's a madness. In a time when the war is not over, when we are on the brink of war with our neighbor Syria, we close the year of life. Four of our soldiers are coming to die at Ziirt Erukh. The number of people tortured in the street is increasing on the Day of the Battle of Torture. In that case, our House is negotiating a law for the violation of 30,000 new police staffs. Only 58 heads of a confederation are being taken into custody because of their union activities, and they are asked, "Why did you strike?" While the prime minister wants to adjust to Syria, he returns once again to align journalists, columnists. As our coven shuts down, it has no will to end the killings, the fighting, the arrests, the pressures. The producer villagers who visited the Assembly today wanted to remove the MAZOTA OTV (UTV) from the mazotta they used, while before that, they said they did not want war, they wanted organised production, organised and free democratic environment.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0016par0087	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Schools of education and nutrition are established in formal and private status. The purpose of these schools, which have been tested as pilots in Istanbul alone, is to meet all the needs of working students. Thus, only 20,000 working parents in Istanbul entrusted their children to these schools without looking back. However, it has appeared to the public that education-based schools have been changed by a sudden decision. According to the report, Kura shootings from schools have been halted for the parents who registered for students with the Qur'an. The relevant instruction came from the City National Education Directorate. Is it true that this process is done without any explanation and that parents still don't know why? What's his motive? Why have parents who have faith in these schools become victims? The government needs to promote such services under educational services, but for what reason do you want to be transformed? With what status will the structures of these schools continue? Anyone who opposes such negativity...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0018par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're expressing our views here, but unfortunately there are no government officials to listen to us. First of all, we'd like them to be there. I've mentioned it before, the courts in Karahalllı district of Ulubey district of Ulubey district of Ulubey province have been closed, and are connected to other courts. Both of our counties have over 5,000 populations, and there are enough files, but we later learned that on June 22nd, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors decided to reopen the courts that were closed in forty-four districts. When I review these counties, Mr. President, there are 1,600-dominated counties. If such towns are being reopened, why don't they open the courts in the districts of Uçak, which have 5,000 and 6,000 inhabitants? We've also submitted a written question motion, and there's no response from the Ministry. When I met with the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, they said they could only discuss them with the Ministry of Justice's recommendation.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0020par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, today is the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but in each General Assembly, every day, unfortunately, we have to express our regret over these platforms, the martyr news. I mean, I really don't know, these are, uh, these are our expressions, unfortunately, not the expressions that satisfy people. Four of the Turkish nation's children have been killed, and today, in an environment where a nation's will for the elimination of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has been not used by the Turkish Parliament for cross-border operations, we are merely expressing our regrets in connection with the news of this martyr. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I beg the Lord for mercy, of course, but the martyrs will not die, nor the country will be divided; and let all think of it. In that sense, if the government has any authority and doesn't exercise that authority, everyone should know that those who don't exercise it will answer to both of them.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0021par0110	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0022par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, some of our soldiers were killed as a result of the terrorist organization ambushing soldiers who went to the police station in Görandoruk village of Eruh district. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, my condolences on our armed forces and our nation, and once again, I repeat: there is nothing that can be achieved or achieved by the identity policies that are the instrument of terrorism. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0023par0116	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0024par0119	Mr. President, I'd like to announce from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey the scream of Mr. Huseyin Yazlak. Hüseyin Yazlak says our village is a village very close to the centre. However, for some reason, our empty mountains in our village are retreating to earn money. Our villages, the upper part of our villages, are being looted. These quarrys are playing with the health of the villagers and the people living in the village and destroying the environment. In this regard, the AKP government, which has done nothing but sell stones, has now set its sights on our mountains, making all the values in Malatya to follow. I'm transmitting this here through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0023par0120	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and establish a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Article 104 and 105 of the 98th Amendments of the Constitution in order to determine and address the measures that should be investigated and taken for the economic damage done to producers and our country as a result of the frosting of our cities, Aksaray and Nevşehir, the problems of the potato manufacturers in our country and the freezing of potato products. [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 14) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] 17) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] 21) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] The central villages of Niğde are Hasaköy, Konaklı, Edikli, Orhanlı, Orkasar, Binma, Münli, İnli, Lakecuk, Elmalı, Ovacık, Farm district; Divarlı, Bozköy, Kula, and Tsardak villages, Aksaray and Nevşehir, because of the seasonly conditions of the potato makers in our provinces. According to the preliminary determination of the Nüğde Agricultural County Directorate, 1,400 manufacturers were victims and were frozen potatoes in some 50,000 per cent. If the farmer is calculated to buy 4 tons of crops per square inch, 200,000 tons of potatoes are frozen in the field. Right now, the price of potatoes is 300 cents a pound. There's about 60 trillion economic losses and our farmer's harm. Potato production costs 600 cents per kilo. In Niğde alone, only when the production costs are calculated, the farmer has suffered 120 trillion losses in the frost incident. According to Act 2090, the farmer who lost 40% of his wealth and income must be compensated. Some farmers who face the Don incident are not registered in the Farmer's Recording System (CKS). He sows the fields of others through Icar. Farmers who are not registered in the Farmer's Recording System (CPS) must also be compensated. Last year, the farmer sold the potato product for the cost of 600 cents. Our farmers have other serious problems besides the frosting incident. Potatoes haven't made the farmer any money in years. Despite the fact that electricity has not been increased by the Ministry of Energy, farmers declare the price of electricity in agricultural irrigation to be too high for earlier times. In this case, the farmer is asked to be given cheaper electricity. Due to the loss and illegal use of the electricity distribution system, MEDAS reflects additional payment on bills as "trafo loss fee" and "open-off fee." Farmers declare that no measures have been taken to prevent losses taken by authorities. Potato manufacturers in the districts of Niğde Farm and lowland villages (binding, Alek, Gölcuk, Orhanlı, Orhanlı, Divarlı, Bozköy and surrounding villages) produce well water from 200 feet [80 m] below the ground. This leads to unfair competition with farmers who farm with natural irrigation on the cost of products. The farmer's debt to electricity distribution institutions, which have been specialised from TEDAS and TEDAŞ, has been under way for years. Because of the electricity used by the farmer in agriculture, he owes TEDAS 2,200,000,000 lira (two billion two hundred million) and 500,000,000 lira (500 million) to the private sector. The total debt reached 2,700,000,000 liras (two billion seven hundred million) along with the interest on electricity debt. 161,000 Agricultural Supplies are in debt. About 30% of these debtors are out of power. It is thought that our farmers will be able to recover from their problems, to address their production problems, and to contribute greatly to the country's economy with the right applied agricultural policies. Turkey's Ministry of the Grand National Assembly Teachers in Turkey face economic, democratic and professional problems, which are increasingly challenging. The problems of our teachers have not been discussed enough so far, nor have enough and necessary steps been taken to address the social and economic problems of our teachers. Other than that, the problems of our teachers, such as AKP ruling staffing, changing the quality of education, paying close to the poverty limit, scientific and non-national values, and not recognizing contracted teaching and judicial decisions, have been booming. In our educational system, the AKP government, which does not provide solutions to classrooms, schools, teachers, officers and servants, has not taken concrete steps to address schools' equipment and physical infrastructure. In recent years, education has had serious problems, especially in infrastructure. In the beginning, the number of classes that our students will be teaching is inadequacies. The number of schools and classrooms in Turkey is not parallel to the number of students and is not at the level that responds to the need. Two-thirds of schools have bilateral training, combined education and transport training practices continue. In the statement of Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer, the most competent mouth in charge of training, 160,000 classrooms are needed. However, he lays the important part of the responsibility on our teachers, saying, "No matter how much infrastructure lacks, no matter how inadequate our physical conditions are, the only power to overcome these problems is in the hands of our teachers." Our teachers, on the other hand, do not have enough income to adopt the self-improvement, renovating teacher model so that they can share and fulfill that responsibility. As a professional group that raises people to shape society, the teaching profession must move to its rightful place, both economically and socially. The teaching profession has become increasingly disreputable in society, and the mistakes and inconsistencies in teaching policies have prevented teaching from taking its rightful place in the hierarchy of professions, and the teachers' status in Turkish society has increased. Thus, the teaching profession is no longer an attractive profession in terms of both material and spiritual possibilities. About 50,000 teachers from the education faculty graduate each year. In addition to the number of appointments that have been made, our teachers who have not been appointed and have just graduated together have suffered a loss due to the lack of about 400,000 appointments, which cannot be appointed as an unemployed teacher. When around 400,000 unassigned teachers are looking for work, it is not understandable that 160,000 teachers are out in the open. The teacher, who graduated from the education faculty and was not appointed, tries to cross the KPSS dam in order to perform his profession. However, the number of teachers that have not been appointed rapidly is added to the number of young people who will graduate from the new universities' education schools. This fact shows that there is no plan for "teacher training" and "teachers to be employed with jobs guaranteed, staffed." Disintegrated teachers' families stand before us as a bleeding wound in education. The problem of teachers whose families had to serve away from their wives and children is the reality of the wrong policies of the Ministry of National Education. With the amendment to the National Education Ministry's Agency and its duties in the Law with the KHK, restrictions on the right to appoint a teacher's apology group have added to the problems of teachers. Where teachers can be helped to solve their problems, their growing by folding each year continues to negatively affect teachers' working conditions, teachers' lives, and the quality of education in general. The Constitution is 98, 104 and 105 for identifying all of our teachers' problems and a comprehensive investigation into how to resolve these problems. In accordance with the clauses, we'd like to submit the requirement for a parliamentary investigation. [[Balıkesir]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Erzincan]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The lack of subsidies in Turkey's production of sugar beets, such as fertilizer, diesel and agricultural medicine, and not equipped with technology to increase the efficiency of factories, causing their costs to run high and sugar factories with a capacity of 50%. In order to determine the measures to improve the economic and social efficiency of beet production by investigating the privatisation of factories, the increase in socioeconomic results in the production of NBS and the health risks of sugar beets producers and beets by-products, and the problems to produce and marketing of beet production, we propose that the Constitution open under Articles 98th, Internal Charter 104 and 105th. [[Erzincan]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 4) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 5) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 13) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 16) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 28) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] 30) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] 34) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] Sugar Beet agriculture and industry are one of the major sectors that employs jobs, binds the farmer to the ground where agriculture is built, contributes to the slowdown of internal migration and reducing regional development differences. The sugar beets, which employ about 10 labour force jobs in 1 yard, provide about 123,000 full jobs per year, considering that our country has 3.2 million decelerated sugar beets. It's the business and livelihood of 10 million of our people who directly or indirectly associate their livelihood with the industry. Beet agriculture creates 20 times more jobs than alternative products compared to wheat, 10 times more jobs than corn, and 5 times more jobs than sunflowers. It is also the most important raw material of Bioethanol, which has been described as green energy and has been widely produced and used around the world in recent years. The United States and the EU are developing serious policies to achieve biofuel use targets. The main raw material for bioethanol production, sugar beets, should be accelerated and bioethanol production should be sensitive. While Turkey was one of the largest beets crop countries in the world, it was negatively affected by the Sugar Act adopted under EU integration laws after 2001 and narrowed down in the fields of October. The European Union aims to transfer sugar production and sugar production to member states with fewer competitive conditions. It is a fact that this will negatively affect the sugar industry in Turkey. Despite the decline of production in sugar factories operating at 50 per cent of privatisation clamps, some years of increased sugar consumption indicates imports of illegal sugar and NBS on the need. Therefore, technology must be provided to increase the efficiency of existing factories. NBS production has been banned in 16 EU countries due to causing various diseases, while in our country, the production of NBS is constantly increased, with great damage to both health and the country's economy. In 1998, 220 thousand tonnes of production increased to 515,000 tonnes in 2009. At the end of the 2007/2008 marketing year, the country's sugar supply was 19,000 tonnes, while the NBA quota increased by 35 percent. At the end of 2008/2009 marketing, the sugar supply was 230,000 tonnes, while the NBA quota was increased by 25%. In 2009/2010, more than 1 million tonnes of beets produced by our country were in storage and were estimated to close the end of the marketing year with 600-700,000 tonnes of stock, while the NBS quota was increased by 50 per cent. As a result of NBS practices in our country over the past eight years, the failure of 2.2 million sugars, the lack of beet agriculture in 300,000 hectares, the loss of $3.2 billion in added value, the loss of 60,000 agricultural workers and the failure to produce 4.5 million tonnes and 600,000 tonnes of melas, has resulted in the lack of 150,000 tonnes of meat. While NBS production, which threatens health in most European Union countries, is banned, the reasons for increasing the production of NBS in our country must be investigated. A research commission is needed in Turkey to investigate the future of sugar production and the problems of sugar beets producers. Members of parliament, three motions for the opening of the parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. 3rd ranked Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunç and 6 MPs; Cumhuriyet People's Party Vice President Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; National Education Ministry's Minister's Proposal to Alternate Law on the Organization and Jobs; Balıkesir MP Namık Havutççça's Proposal to the Law on the Law, İzkek Havutçça; Annotation of Unsubstructed Teachers to the Unstructed Forces and State Officers' Law on Organizations and Some Articles of Laws; Laws Against the Law on National Education and Orders; Mustafa Kalayer's Minister's Committee and Minister's Minister's Minister's Committee for Education; and Agreement of Education; An Agreement for Education and Agreement on the Ministerships and Orders and Development; Agreement for Humanity and Agreement of Annotation of Non-Forms and Agreement for Humanment for Humanment; Bart's Committee on Education and Agreement of Non; Bar. (x) 302 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 302 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on all of the proposal have been agreed to be completed and transferred to its articles, the chapters will be discussed, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the groups, who want to speak on top of the proposal, first place, Mustafa Kalaycı on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, is a member of the Democratic Party. Mr. Tin Man, here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0025par0333	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on behalf of the general Law Proposal No. 302. On this occasion, I salute you all. Again, we're dealing with a bag of law proposals that have made changes to the 35 laws and laws, which have no context or integrity of subject and purpose, which have no connection to them as content. With this offer, people whose income per household is less than 1/3 of the monthly minimum wage are covered by social welfare, even though they are insured. As of July 2012, the net minimum wage includes those whose income per household amounted to less than $246.60 per household, or less than $986.40 per family, according to a family of four. Of course, families with higher income are also covered as the number of children increases. That's not exactly fair. The practice is already showing many complaints. It is true that the minimum amount of income is determined according to the number of families, and according to this, the scope of social benefits and the creation of the poor body. Essentially, non-insuranced and non-responsive pensions are included in the purpose and scope of the Social Aid and Solidarity Act. Thus, the purpose and the scope of the law is also an oxymoron. Therefore, the law must be fully reviewed. The point is that the AKP's government accepts that it condemns our citizens to poverty, leaves our citizens in need of poverty, makes them depend on a bag of coal, a pack of pasta, and has to arrange it as a law clause. As a matter of fact, reports of the state's institutions, TÜİK and Central Bank confirm that the citizen is becoming poor and is in debt with poverty. According to TİK studies, nearly two-thirds of the citizens are in financial deprivation and 87.5 per cent are unable to make a week's vacation away from home for economic reasons. According to the Central Bank's reports, families' income increased by 3.4 times during AKP power, while their debt increased by 37.6 times more. Just recently, a credit card statement has been found in front of the province of Konya in front of a citizen who committed suicide in front of a debt of 26,000 lira. Thus, it seems that the words that Turkey has grown, prospered, that income per person exceeds $10,000 are just words. Of course, there are those who have grown and prospered; during the AKP, smugglers, profiteers, loan sharks, contractors, and supporters were the corner. The minimum wagers, pensioners, workers, civil servants, tradesmen, farmers and peasants have become poor, and are generally in need of social assistance. The arrangement of this proposal also means that this situation is legally registered. Those who are injured from the pardon are also covered by social welfare. It is not right to take the matter of injury from the pardon within Law 3294. It would be more appropriate to improve the relevant laws involved in the subject of disaster. The AKP government does not compensate for the damage done to our disaster farmers, but it also practices discrimination. In the past year, there have been disasters in many districts of Iconya, due to frosts, floods, snowfalls, sandstorms, droughts, but the damage to our farmers has not been compensated. Under the decision of the Council of Ministers issued this month, over 30 per cent of the products were supported by potato producers whose products were damaged by the frost, but the decree was not taken into account even though there were official indications of damage to 95 per cent in our southern district, although there was major damage to the grain and potatoes due to the frost and drought in our districts of Emirgazi, Karatay and Sejşehir. I demand that the AKP government stop segregating practices and take care of our farmers and peasants whose crops have been damaged by the disaster. Dear lawmakers, the proposal also includes fellow martyrs and veterans as social aid. It is the greatest shame of the AKP government that it has made its relatives and veterans in need of social assistance. Although promises have been made, arrangements have not been made so far to improve the rights of martyrs and veterans, expand their rights, and address their unjust practices. In the process of referendum, the AKP, which does not limit abuse, has deceived veterans and fallen relatives for special discrimination. Were your commitments covered in welfare? Are you going to discriminate by giving him coal? This is one of the obvious indicators of the abuse and hypocrisy of the AKP mentality. We have offered dozens of laws as the Milliyetian Movement Party on issues such as improving the families of martyrs and veterans, fixing unfair and segregation practices between martyrs and veterans, raising employment opportunities in two ways, giving the martyr's parents monthly commitments without the need for age and poverty, giving their martyrs and veterans a university quota, not considering whether their salary has been paid or paid for another income or a monthly job, no matter whether or not it works. Let's all vote together to bring these things into this proposal, to live together, to take care of the relics and the veterans of our martyrs. In particular, I address the ruling AKP Group: We, the National Movement Party, are present, as always, to address the problems of our fallen relatives and veterans. This offer is an opportunity. Let us use this opportunity to fulfill your promises. Or did the Prime Minister and the ministers deceive again because of the closure of the Parliament? Other promises have not been fulfilled. The AKP government is a constant merchant of hope. Wasn't it Mr. Prime Minister who promised the contractors a staff, especially in the municipalities and the county's private administrations? They said Prime Minister Erdogan had an expression on a television channel that explained that there was a staff work for those with contracts, so I made it clear to our Prime Minister, and he told us to work on it. We can bring this up in the next Council of Ministers. Where is the Minister of Labor? Where's Mr. Hayati Printer, who promised the victims of 4/C, who said that family support would be given to the 4/C? ▪ Tabheron workers are like slaves. This is unacceptable. Where is the Minister of Labor, who says there is work to be started for healing? Where is the Prime Minister who says, "Hopefully, we will be able to solve the problem of our temporary workers who are upset about the condition of the temporary workers who can't make it to the staff?" Where are all the interior ministers of the AKP government, who have promised to improve their chief salary for years, who, if I retire, would I probably run for mayor in a village? He said, "Where is Mr. Bulent Arinc, who gives the hope that the Village Law will come out?" A week before the 2007 elections, on TV on July 15, 2007, where is Mr. Prime Minister, who said that police rights would be placed at the first table after the election? All of the promises are recorded in the archives, but this year of legislature has come to an end, and promises made by the Prime Minister and the ministers themselves remain for another spring. Dear lawmakers, with this law proposal, the presidency of TÜBITAK and SSM is authorized to start a company, to become partners in established companies. 25 advisers to the Ministry of Industry, 10 advisors to the Ministry of Industry, 5 advisors to the Ministry of Education, 5 advisors to the presidency of the OSYM are being committed, some ministries and institutions are forming new units. Look at this AKP mentality, which is that it's one by one giving out horticultural counsel and creating new barley stores, while one by one closes military branches and courthouses serving citizens in the districts. The closure of the courts has become a complete disgrace. In the beginning, 218 courts were declared to be closed, while 146 courts were closed by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors on June 15, 2012, but the Ministry of Justice stepped back and reduced the number of courts closed by June 22, 2012. Has HSYK become AKP's farm? What happens in a week? Why did he change his mind? What effective and competent AKP people have had influence? In its June 22, 2012 decision, the HSYK said that I considered the distance and means of transportation to courts combined with geographical conditions, populations, security and business conditions. So, what did you consider in the decision a week ago? According to some villages, the distance from Hüyuk district to Beyşehir is up to 30 miles [50 km] from which the court has been closed. The distance of our district of Emirgazi is more than 20 miles [60 km]. The population of Hüyüzük is greater than the population of 23 districts that have been cancelled. The labour burden of the Huyük Courthouse is also greater than most of these counties. Please explain the number of files of the county courthouses, and you'll see the injustices done. Hence, the reasons set out are not true. Much smaller as a population, much less a business situation, why were the courts of Hüyük and Altınekin closed in many districts closer to the city centre or other districts? My great and golden countrymen will ask you to answer for it. And those who discriminate between the counties, and those who stand by, of course, will be caught. Is the AKP's purpose to serve the citizen or to close the institutions that serve the citizen? Close the military offices, close the courthouses, and now it's time to close the town halls. You've already stripped our mayors of their powers because I'm going to close them. But you should know that the citizen will close the AKP's book and will not be opened again. Especially when he goes to the terrorists' foot and sets up a trial, the citizens will never forget or forgive those who shut down the court in his district. Dear lawmakers, the principal ingredient of this proposal is Article 39. This article and Article 35 of the Law of the Court shall be changed. The Court is a very important constitutional institution that contributes to the use and oversight of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's budget rights. The proposal, however, turns the Court's control into a display. The Court's audit is neutralized, and the audit is avoided. The Court is deposed from being an independent external control institution, which is appointed as a control unit of the ministry, or even the audited institution. The content of the audit reports has been limited, making it impossible to organise a audit report that the audited administrations do not approve. Court Law 6085 was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 5 December 2010 and has been in force for a year and a half. The Court has not yet completed its inspections according to this Law. There is yet to be a court audit report. The audit report prepared by the audit staff has already been sent to auditing institutions, and the final drafts to be created according to the answers of these institutions will be sent to relevant Court offices, the apartments will evaluate these draft reports, and then will be turned into an audit report after they have been evaluated and finalised by the Court's Report Evaluation Board, which is made up of members of the Court. Thus, the audit process is not completed according to the new Law of the Court. So it is not possible to talk about a wrong or incomplete application. In this case, it is not possible to say that the issues involved in the proposal were born out of a need. Then what are you afraid of? Do you have issues? What's the rush? Under the arrangement, the Court's independent departments and boards must report assessment function, registration, discipline, promotional position is transferred to the commissions of the auditors under its command. Filter commissions are created from people who are not in fact involved in the audit. With independent agencies and the Report Evaluation Board of Court members in accordance with the Court's Law provisions, it will eliminate the independence and neutrality of control until the reports are submitted to these boards. Again, it should be a matter of consultation, before the audit reports on public harm are tried by the relevant Court's office, it will be subject to preliminary examination and selection, which will render the judicial offices dysfunctional and put the commissions of auditors in a position of authority over the apartments. The regulation also determines that the tasks and procedures covered by the audit and the issues which have been determined to be in accordance with the legislation related to them should be included in the report. Control reports -- on name -- are not operational reports. If you take part in the audit report in the relevant procedures, you have to write down all the activities of the institutions in the report, which is not an audit report. Again, in the event that an undetectable illegal procedure is detected in the next inspection of corruption, the arrangement for the ban on filing a report on that subject is unacceptable, there is no such understanding of control. Under the arrangement, the audit report can't be carried out, which includes a position check, which includes opinions and proposals, that it is not suitable for the requirements, measurement, efficiency, efficiency, and so on. The provisions on the use and use of public resources effectively, economically and efficiently, accountability and fiscal transparency are stated to be responsible to the Prime Minister and the Grand National Assembly on the issues of Articles No. 5018, and to the Supreme National Assembly of the Law of the Court, in Articles 1 (18). Despite all these provisions, an arrangement on the principles of efficiency, efficiency, opinion and proposals will lead to complete contradictions and confusion. Can the controller write or write a report on the effective, economic and efficient use of public resources? A lot of stuff says you can't write and you can't write, so get out of it. It is incompatible with international standards and a widely accepted modern understanding of control to assess the concepts of modern control within the scope of the law. As a result, this arrangement is also a confession that the AKP mentality does not use public resources effectively, economically and efficiently. The AKP government is making an arrangement to avoid accountability to Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In fear of accountability, he seeks a way out of control. He's looking for a way out. There is no other explanation for this. Know that no matter what arrangement you make, no matter what law you make, you will not be able to escape inspection. You won't be able to stop answering in front of the judge. Your laws won't stop it. Fear doesn't help at all. He will be caught by all the robbers and profiteers who plunder the state, lay hands on the subject. Those who rob the state will be questioned about their rights. This account will be granted by God's permission to ask the National Movement Party. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0026par0369	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Second speaker for the groups, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu for the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0027par0373	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. Dear lawmakers, it is incumbent on all of us to make the laws that this country needs, the laws that the people need, but it is incumbent on this House to do so by reviewing these laws, by discussing them together, by arguing them to the full extent of the law. But there's a bag coming in, and there's nothing in this bag that's not there. For one thing, I apologize to the members of the House's other commissions. They brought in a bag that didn't concern the Plan Budget Commission, which didn't have anything to do with the Plan Budget Commission, which had nothing to do with the Plan Budget Commission, the National Education Commission, Health and Family Commission, the Publicity Commission, the Justice Commission, whatever commission you can think of, to disregard these commissions -- I'm undermining it. I apologize to the members of the other commissions. Let's work as Plan Budget Commission, we'll work until morning, but we've been brought up with something of the duty and responsibility of other commissions, with a signature, with the consent of those who don't, without discussion, without reason, and without being told why. It's not called a bag, it's called soup. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to say that we're all in favor of the public, of the community, and there are a lot of articles that we support. As a matter of fact, there's nothing that isn't in this bag, from driver's license to earthquake housing. Of course, there are important substances that we've given absolute support to, that we've clearly signed their motions. We're not insensitive, as long as you bring what the public wants, but let's discuss it, without arguing, with a single signature, with a motion, we did it, we all did it, we all did it. Now, let's do it right now, without any physical measurements that have been done in some of our provinces in the 99 earthquakes, for example. No one's ever been there, people are in debt, people are victims, work victims. There's actually something missing here that says those who take it and don't sit in it, but there are people who sit in it, who are victims. Actually, it's missing from this material. It is our duty to stand by all of those victims. That is why all my friends and I took a positive look at this material. Again, the Credit and Housing Institution has offered to take our students from their homes to ten years, primarily under the best conditions of the social state, to stay in their homes for five years -- with pleasure -- because we're all happy to have our students in the government, under the umbrella of the social state -- under the umbrella of the state, and we're all happy to support it, together. But my dear friends, Turkey, TÜBITAK... a law on TÜBITAK is being passed, with nothing scientific to discuss. I don't know, I don't know anything about TUBITAK. Who knows that, TUBITAK? Scientists know, people with academic careers know. The task of starting a company for TÜBITAK is given to companies -- exactly -- and the same -- that are what TÜBITAK wants, to be partners at the rate they want to be. Friends, TÜBİTAK is a scientific academy, but we are deeply surprised that the Plan and Budget Commission has been presented as an offer in a way that is not discussed in the relevant commission, without any scientific merits being discussed. It comes as a government proposal, it's processed, it's turned around, the relevant commission approves it if necessary. Therefore, I regret to inform you that TÜBITAK will be brought within this bill and will be part of the Plan and Budget Commission without any scientific consideration. My dear friends, I would also like to know why the President of the Religious Affairs is the President of all of us, but I would like to know the real reason why he was put back in this bag with a motion without explaining why it was necessary, without explaining his 15-year-old counseling staff. Why raise it to 40 instead of 15 counselors? Somebody explain this to me. I need someone to explain it to me. Besides, I'd like to see the Head of Religious Affairs be as sensitive in other matters. I've been saying for ten years that there's always been some kind of truth to the people in this country, even though I've been saying that there's always been a motion to raise the 15-person counseling staff to 40. The Cemebs are the truth of this land, of the Alemi, of my Bektashi brothers. You can't look at this reality artificially anymore, you can't look at it palliatively. Cemevlar is a respect for the faith of my brothers, Alevi, and Bektashi, who dwell in this land. We've been singing for ten years. Although I personally have told this truth on these platforms for ten years, unfortunately, it's always been ignored. Another problem was that pre-97 primary school graduates were prevented from getting their driver's license due to eight years of training. Then that's the law. With this law, in some way, we've decided that in the driver's license of pre-97 primary school graduates, along with the common values of the entire Commission, that our citizens are prevented from being victimized. My dear friends, the underground resources of this country are of considerable value to this country. Again, without discussion, I draw the bottom -- without discussion, by handing it over to the Privatisation Administration of the underground lignite mines -- what happened in the old days? It was privatized as Redevans; it wasn't sold underground, it was the government's underground, they were giving it a certain year-long operation, but now, with the privatisation of the lignite mines, with its source... friends, this is contrary to the Constitution. Underground resources are the land of this country. Selling the land of this country along with the underworld is a violation of the very foundation of the Constitution. Therefore, either without a debate, with a single motion... it is the Energy Commission that should be debated for hours, the truth of the country should be found, but unfortunately with a motion, the path to privatisation of the lignite mines with its resources has been opened. It's a shame. My dear friends, you've been privatizing. You privatized energy distribution companies and gave control of them to the EPDK. Now, the exact expression is that the EPDK has failed in its control. So we're taking back control authority over the EPDK. This, my friends, is the bottom line: We failed in this privatisation, we couldn't protect the public, we couldn't protect the interests of the people. Because the EPDK didn't have enough control, you couldn't protect the public's interests in privatisation. We've been yelling here for days, the specialized energy distribution companies don't serve the public, it's for one purpose, it's for profit, it's for this. Even though we said it, you didn't listen to us, but now you admit that EPDK didn't have enough control, give it to us, the Ministry of Energy. Who is the Ministry of Energy, who is the EPDK? Ali-Vali, Veli-Ali, but there's only one confession here: we've failed in control. You all know the persecution that the privatized energy distribution companies have done to the public, you all know the persecution they've done to the people better than I do. Electricity is failing in the village, no one's leaving for days, it's an outrage. Come, with the understanding of the social state... and I'll show you where this is all coming from. My dear friends, again the capital gas; you have granted privileges; for days we have said to you, "What are the debts of the capital gas?" You said, "Who will pay the debt of the capital gas frozen in 2007?" You said, "The last thing you did was privatize it, it's ruined." The last resort you're looking for is this: let's sell it with 100 shares per cent. What about the debts of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality? Will the money from privatisation pay off? What about interest since 2007? It's a bust, guys. My dear friends, you've done something else, with members of the industrial and trade rooms, by the joint decision of your members, and with certain organs, and how to choose... Oh, if you don't like this, if my friends in the industry and trade room say this choice is unfair, then they sit down, and all the rooms and stock exchanges association get together, a new model is set, a new model is discussed and applied, but the thing we're sorry to say, friends, is that the people are taking the will of the people. No, the Clave's will is pressing against the public. With a motion, no conscience can bear to interfere in the selection of industrial and trade rooms, with a motion. I apologize to the Industrial and Trade Commission. That's the place to discuss it. Without a debate... and the representative from the Chambers and Stock Exchanges Association, you're slaughtering. An app like this would turn the rooms against each other. It can't be done, it can't be done. You bring it here, even though it says so. If we, as Turkey, respect the ruling personality of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, why is there a motion, without discussion? Why don't you bring it in and put it in here without saying anything? My dear friends, this is indeed a shackles on the will of the people or the will of the industry and the will of the trade room. If today's method is not correct, bring it in, discuss it on the relevant commission; sit down, decide according to it; but it has wounded my conscience to bring only those who do not agree with a motion... in the form of those who do not. I apologize to all members of the industry and trade room. My dear friends, a year and a half ago, the Court's Law -- our old friends in this Parliament -- was studied for days, debated for days, debated on the relevant commission for months, subcommissions were established in the Plan and Budget Commission for months, and from this parliament, all of the Parliament's will is complete. He did not say, "We have a law on the Court." In less than a year and a half, it is disrespectful to take away some of the Court's control powers, at least to the people who have worked for months in the past term. It's only been a year and a half! So, really, it's a black mark of the offer. It's brought in, it's missing, it's discussed, it's discussed. The Court's presidency has no opinion. He's not coming to Parliament with the grace of the Court's office. Even though this law in parliament has been called to talks, no one is questioning why it did not come, why it did not come, even though it was invited to the House. Do you know what I would like to call it if the Court is not allowed to defend a decision against itself and is not invited to come again? It's a coup against the court. I thought you were against the coups. We're against it. Yes, the Court shouts, and I am against it. But you come and go. My dear friends, this is a coup to the Court. My dear friends, Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi and his friends, offered a law on the need for teachers in Turkey as soon as the House opened. Unfortunately, there's a clause here about teachers, the appointment of teachers, but the fact that Mr. Hamzacebi and his friends have given the truth of Turkey has not been taken into account. Turkey has a lack of teachers. Children in Turkey are children of all of us. We can't solve this problem by appointing 30,000 teachers with palliative measures. The basic solution is to solve it fundamentally, as many teachers as there are in Turkey. Every year the palliative dissolves, and our young teachers always get desperate. It's not our right to lose young people to despair. There's nothing in this country more natural than what a real teacher needs to be identified and appointed by that amount. Again, it's a police department, it's about law enforcement... friends, it's not just about staffing. The safety of the citizen depends on the welfare of the police. None of us has the right to starve in retirement by simply giving police severance pay, keeping their salaries too low. Come on, let's bring in everything that's wrong with the law-enforcement class, and we'll bring it in without arguing, just so many cops need it. It's called that. For the safety of the citizen, for the peace of the police, nothing is discussed but a number. I can't accept that. We need to discuss both the police and the safety of the citizen, the peace and happiness of the police, the peace and happiness of the citizen. This isn't about pepper spray. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0028par0399	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. The third speaker for the groups is Fair Wolf, Hakkari MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0029par0403	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On behalf of our group, I have made a pledge to express our views on this bag of laws. The AKP has said change about some laws, but in many non-related issues, we see changes in this proposal of the law in this uncertain way. In fact, when we review the entire text, we're talking 59 articles, 2 interim materials, 61 items, a bag of law. And when you look at this bag of legislation in detail, the speakers before me also mentioned some of the last minute changes, some of which were 39 points when we started discussing some of the things that were presented in front of the agenda of the commissions, the admission commissions commissions, and now we're talking about a 61-point bag of legislation that was presented to you, without having to discuss them at the most of the members of parliament. So, when we look around this integrity, we're talking about a bag of laws that have been brought up without at least 20 clauses to be considered, without enough discussion. Of course, it became a tradition for the government, a tradition for its practices. With such logic, without enough discussion, without enough understanding of the need, a change in the matter will then bring to the agenda of different commissions a chore. Because here's a mistake that we're going to do, a mistake that we're going to confirm by saying yes. And then, three months later, we're going to come up with a new correction clause. While we were having this discussion at the Plan Budget Commission, we saw a practical example of this when we talked about it. Tomorrow, as another commission came to the agenda, as the Plan Budget Commission came to its agenda, again, we apologize, we were wrong here. We're fixing this. There'll be something we can call it. This practice, which has been placed on the agenda of the Plan Budget Commission outside its speciality and is contrary to the Civil Code, should not be approved in parliament today. Because if Congress violates the Civil Code today, we could face even more freakier, more dire cases tomorrow if Congress agrees that a commission has discussed or discussed something that is not in its field of expertise, or brought it to the agenda of parliament. Therefore, at the beginning of my words, I feel the need to give this warning. Right now, this bag of legislation, which seems to have actually come out of the Plan Budget Commission, is the agenda of eight separate residency commissions in parliament. But none of these commissions have had a conversation about the issues in their field of expertise. Normally, it was a situation in which our Commission President would have to refer these matters in his field of residency to secondary commissions and address them with their reports. Tali didn't go to the commissions, and there's no Tali commissions in front of us. No reports have come into the agenda of the Plan Budget Commission. There's a clear discrepancy to the Civil Code. As a member of the Plan Budget Commission, I stand before you. We, in fact, have used the authority of other commissions that are not in our interest, not in our area of expertise, not in our field, and with the majority vote of the ruling party members, this bag of legislation is now on the agenda of the House. So, we think that this wrong should be abandoned, that the House should not approve of this error. Dear friends, there are a lot of things in this proposal that we're going to focus on in detail. As I was saying, since most of the substances are already out of our interest, frankly, there's no way we can clearly share their truth, their error. One of the important things is, for example, about non-assigned teachers. Mr. Prime Minister, in 2002, before he became Prime Minister, said that many of our young people, especially our teacher candidates, were out of work. In the country, education has collapsed, village schools have been closed, even schools in the center are dying to be teachers, and you're auditioning for teachers. Why don't you let our young teachers go and work? Wait all these years, then pick it up. Does that man have any more enthusiasm? Can he teach? But hopefully, when we're in power, the teachers will make preparations for the day the school is finished, and the next day they'll go to school with a love of duty; don't worry. It's a promise the Prime Minister made in 2002 in a speech in Istanbul. Now, according to our AKP friends in Turkey, it is 2002. Wherever they talk, from the minister to the MP, before 2002, after 2002, that's what happened... Now, I'm going to say that again and again. In 2002, the number of teachers who could not be appointed in Turkey was 72,000 in 2012, 10 years later, 350,000 teachers who could not be appointed. Now, as if it were a blessing, there are 30,000 teachers who are being appointed. Dear friends, at a time when you have 350,000 unappointed teachers, we appoint 30,000 teachers. No one will take this seriously. It's not a blessing. The unassigned teachers, at least, are the self-determination of the Ministry of National Education, which is needed in schools, are now in need of over 200,000 teachers, but what is being done instead of appointing teachers? Young people who have graduated from education schools, our fellow teachers are subject to paid teaching, trying to cover that gap through paying teaching. Of course, it is important to point out that paid teaching is a conscious choice, a conscious choice of power. The Prime Minister doesn't say we're Chinese for nothing. Yes, with the size of labor exploitation, we're Chinese, we're Chinese. Today in Turkey, we see exactly the same things as the AKP government's practices, the same size as China. If you give the teacher 300 liras, 400 liras, 600 liras at the maximum, and run it, we'll be Chinese. The prime minister's word is true in this dimension, but in this time when we're in China with the work dimension, do you know how many high school teachers commit suicide in this country because they can't be assigned or appointed or exploited? 32 teachers committed suicide, candidate teacher. I'll share with you the story of one or two of them. Ahmet Fazlı Elçi: An unappointed teacher was working as a porter in Çikirdağ district of Tekirdağ. The apostle, who was forty-four years old and fathered two children, committed suicide when he was a paid religious culture teacher at Ataturk Multi-programming High School. Ismail Kıziok: From teachers who cannot be appointed. He's applying to be a paid teacher in Istanbul -- a previous teacher -- at least he's applying to become a paid teacher, he's rejected his application and he's committing suicide, and his suicide date is September 14, 2009. Enough Imrak: Enough Imrak, who struggles to live with his three children apart from his wife, commits suicide by going to the top floor of a building across from a school where he can't stand it any longer. It's not a very distant date, and if you were involved in those issues, you'd remember that date, too, January 12, 2011. Şengül Özkan: Another teacher who can no longer stand the persecution of the teacher who is paid to teach him in Bursa is another teacher who chooses to commit suicide. Like this, I can share 32 more stories with you about this period. Instead of referring to teaching, this bag is offered to teachers another option. ▪ What business do you have with teaching? Instead of using a pen, let's teach you how to use a gun, be a cop. 30,000 teaching staff versus 30,000 police staff. Is it too much to ask? For God's sake, what are you gonna do with 30,000 cops? How else are you going to create the police state? What's with the 30,000 police staff in this country? 30,000 staff in need of what? While the regular budget planning included 12,000 police personnel in 2012, this bag is now being brought up to 30,000 police officers with the law. And what's it to you to deal with knowledge, let alone education, grow people, grow people? Let's give you a gas bomb, a baton, and a gun, and there's no better police work than that. It's called this bag, the law says that. Dear friends, a teacher candidate who had to apply for the police staff had to write the following phrases on the website: on the one hand, my family, on the other hand, the conditions of my life and the years of my past. I'm sorry to say it's hard to make a choice. So this teacher says that our brother is talking about a choice between a pen and a gun, and unfortunately he has to use it for a gun, he has to use it for a baton, he has to use it for a gas bomb. That's what we've brought the country into. This is what this country is coming to, this is the painting. In this painting, we reach advanced democratic norms. Who would believe you? Look, I share with you what's going on in this country today, when police mentality is dominated, police state mentality is dominated. Dear friends, please take a look at this picture. What does that remind you of? For our dear people who are watching us at the beginning of their screens, the only member of the ruling party's ranks can't look at this picture at the time of this question. Let me be clear, what does this picture remind you of? It's a flower, isn't it? But it's not a flower, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0030par0420	Reverse tulip...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0029par0421	The picture is a picture of a flower, an upside-down tulip, but in the indictment of Mizgin Cicek, I'll tell you what this flower is, Congressman. It's a picture of a student who's a teacher's candidate in the bag of our brother Mizgin Cicek, who's currently lying in the Diyarbakır E-type Closed Prison. The reason for his arrest was said to have been found in a tool bag, which members of the terrorist organization used as a symbol of the organization. This is what he called the object, and these are the statements. Now, if you're in the mood to appoint a teacher instead of appointing a policeman, well, the flower of the Haqkari mountains, called kulseni, can be considered a evidence of crime, which you know as "ters tulip." There was a debate at the Plan and Budget Commission; there was a debate about EXPO, the EXPO 2016 Antalya Fair was discussed, the legislation passed by the Commission. I just want to say good luck, but unfortunately, we couldn't offer it because we'd be offering evidence of a crime. We're talking about a fair about flowers and plants, but our mountain flower is a criminal, so we can't recommend it. There's so much more to talk about. It's been focused on TÜBITAK. Yeah, a device that generates information can't be a mechanism that markets information. We've objected to that in the commission, but TÜBITAK will now be busy marketing the information if you accept it from now on. EPDK: I'm running out of time, but I'd like to make a statement about energy, privatisation. Mr. Minister of Energy said: "It is the sin of slander." No Istanbuler is paying for the power leak in Hakkari, but the Minister is not correcting it. On the contrary, because the manufacturer in Marmara has collected the energy leak from the Treasury, the EPDK has collected it from the Treasury... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the victim of the earthquake, the poor man in Hakkari, the poor peasant, pays. So, this law, we're talking about a bag that contains all these wrong arrangements. If you say yes to this bag, you...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0031par0426	Mr. Wolf, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0029par0427	...you would be in violation of the Parliamentary Civil Code. The Plan and Budget Commission has its own field of expertise outside of its own jurisdiction.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0031par0428	Mr. Wolf, please...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0029par0429	Mr. President, I'm finishing. ...has discussed other issues, pretended to discuss them, and now the pirate has somehow brought them to your agenda. The House is not supposed to be a party to this mistake. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0032par0433	On behalf of the groups, the final speaker is Bitlis MP Vedat Demiröz, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0033par0436	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Proposal of Laws Against Some Laws. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the activities and day-to-day work of public institutions and organisations associated with various ministries have faced some problems. Also, there are issues and arrangements that are important to citizens that need to be resolved immediately. Therefore, there is an obligation to discuss things that concern many laws together. The law proposals of this nature have been on the agenda of our House in the past, and we're negotiating a law like this today. I believe that the arrangements will benefit from the overcoming of these temporary obstructions and the greater efficiency of daily work. I'm going to briefly list the specifics of the law proposal. In public administrations, permanent staff and contract staff and the family members they are obliged to care for are sent abroad for treatment, and there is a clause in the provision of the housing costs of the escorts. In another article, after the August 17, 1999 and November 12, 1999 earthquakes, they were allowed to pay the rights of their employer three times in a row or to lower their rights, not pay compensation, and to pay them the interest of their payments. The two-year period for public cases envisioned due to election crimes is reduced to six months. The residential rental authority of the Higher Education Credit and Homes Association for up to five years is increased to 12 years, considering the amortisation period. TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) is granted the authority to start a company and to be a partner in its companies. The production and sale of products, which are the subject of all intellectual and testing rights obtained within the institution, is authorized to establish and establish a company for this purpose. The mandate of the TÜBITAK presidency is extended from three to four years. In 2012, the mid-school achievement scores for candidates entering the Metrics, Selection and Placement Exams are recommended to be applied this year as well. Dear lawmakers, in one article, there has been a rate of income increase in order to prevent the demand for a new income or return of unwarranted funds due to small-scale monthly fluctuations on the income level of our disabled citizens and those who provide care for them, and it has been determined to be two-thirds more than two-thirds of the net minimum wage. Driver's licenses are obliged to receive at least the level of primary school education. It is intended to privatise the lignite and iron mines of public institutions and institutions. In another article: Those who have not previously been subject to any social security agency and who have not received any monthly allowances from around here, while those whose income per household is less than a third of the net amount of minimum wage include martyrs and close relatives. In accordance with Law 3294, aid and support from the Support Fund for Social Aid and Solidarity will not be seized, and it will not be confiscated, even if the person permits it. The 19th article also concerns our MPs. Official identification documents given to MPs, former members of the legislature and foreign ministers by the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly are intended to be adopted by official and private organisations. In another article of the proposal: Publicisation can be made on behalf of organised industrial regions -- such is the current situation -- will be issued by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology on the application of the council for the adoption of the clause. Under state benefits decisions provided by the ministry, the costs and the obligation to pay the land price have been given to the corporate personality of organised industrial areas, established by organised industrial areas. All control of power distribution companies has been granted to the Ministry. The 23rd article envisions the sale of a 20 per cent stake in the capital of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and its joint partnerships in the capital of the capital of the Capital Gas Distribution Asş, with the sale of 80 per cent of the share, and firstly the payment of debts to the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and EGO General Directorate's BOTAS General Directorate and Treasury. In order to invest in real or legal persons without charge or to be allowed to use indefinitely, the premises have been envisioned to be removed from the property under the conditions required by investors. A provision has been provided for those who have already been committed or who have completed or failed investments in the investment incentive document. For those who complete the investments but fail to meet the minimum number of workers, and if they complete as much as 50 per cent of the committed workers, the rail price of the factory will be paid on track or on land, on land, on land, on the land of which the assigned land is paid 3 per cent of the amount of land. Investors of this kind will apply within six months and will complete their shortcomings within two years. In another paragraph, those who have completed 60 per cent of their investments, and those who have completed 40 per cent of the minimum number of jobs, will benefit from this right by paying 50 per cent of the price of the assigned land, half of the Rayic price. In the third paragraph, those who have completed 35 per cent of their investments will be able to benefit from it by paying the full cost of all the allocations, regardless of the number of jobs. It's a very important item for businesses whose investments are interrupted. The 26th article stipulates that the purchases of goods and services from the company established or participated in by the CSI shall be made exceptions from the Public Contraction Act. Article 28 is envisioned to facilitate voting in the elections of the Chambers and Stock Exchange Association of Turkey and the Union-based chambers. While the real people voted with their population wallets, the only way they could vote was by getting a license from a record trading officer. Of course, it was not possible for those without legal authority to provide this document during the election, since room selections usually occur at the end of the week. You see, the number of voting in 10,000 or 15,000 members is 1,000-1. It didn't go past 500. For this reason, it is the following company officials who can participate in this vote, participate in the electives, only by announcing the signature circuses. Article 30 is envisioned that public institutions and institutions can conduct interrogations on persons concerned in criminal records and archives. A $5 fee demanded for questioning is expected in the criminal record and archive records. All roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, open and green spaces, sports halls and other social and cultural infrastructures have been given seven years in public institutions and institutions to ensure that any structures that are made by real and corporate individuals are open and open to hope are subject to the access of the disabled. Unfortunately, it's all our fault, we haven't completed it yet. It is envisioned to extend the seven-year period one more year and increase it to eight years. Article 33 is that those who were sent abroad and successfully completed their studies and returned home are obliged to complete their mandatory service period, and that they may be able to borrow part of their studies from abroad after the end of the 18-year-old period, and re-organise the debt of those who are in debt, restructuring and restructuring. In another article, education and teaching support are required for each student who is studying at private vocational and technical schools opened in organised industrial areas. Of course, that's one of the key elements of the bill to me. It will surely happen in the organised industrial zone, and there will be more than 50 per cent of the cost made by the National Education Ministry in the same kind of schools -- which will be given to students in the same kind of schools -- which we have received at this time, $3,800 is going to be provided to the Ministry of Education, which means that a student's cost to the Ministry of Education will be at this moment, in the highest cost of over 5,000 liras -- will be supported by the ministry of Education, or by the director of the organization for organised industry. This may be one of the key elements of the bill. Special consumption taxes, which are collected from goods including oil and derivatives, have been envisioned on the list number 1 of the shares passed to the Metropolitan municipalities from the general tax revenues. From now on, the urban municipalities will no longer be given a share of the EVTs taken over oil and derivatives. This item will take effect from 1/1/2013. In another article, the regulations and regulations of the Court's Court's Court's Office shall be regulated and the scope of the Court's audit shall cover all financial transactions and transactions of public administrations, revenues, expenses and goods, and actions that remain outside of the Court's Law shall not be subject to inspection. In the following articles, there are regulations concerning the OSYM, and I will not go into details. In another article, the rent on private law and public law persons, including those who are considered traffickers in the Turkish Trade Law, has been arranged that some of the articles of the Law of Debts shall not be applied for eight years. In this case, the provisions for the FEMA will not be implemented for a period of eight years. In another article, the duties of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology suggest issues related to the investment of organised industrial areas in infrastructure and support of infrastructure and up to 70 per cent of industrial sites and the support of business clusters. The National Ministry of Education envisions relocation of positions for some staffs and the addition of the deputy chief of state national education staff among the staff that can be rotated. It is estimated that there will be no restrictions imposed on the Budget Law on the appointment of 40,000 empty teachers in the National Ministry of Education staffs, including the 55th article, limited to 2012, which is limited to 2012. Hopefully, our teachers will be assigned to their fates, their hearts, in these 40,000 teachers. At the same time, the following item was credited with 30,000 teachers' staff, which was assigned to the branch manager in 950. The Police Department has been assigned 30,000 police personnel and Van 100. The University of Year has a variety of 300 staff members in the same article. The proposal will go into effect on the date when all articles are published, but the article on the regulation of shares from the city's municipalities, the STV, will go into effect from 01/01/2013. On behalf of my party, I want to thank you all. I wish you the best of the law, with respect.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0034par0473	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Negotiations are complete on behalf of groups on the bill. Now, on behalf of the individuals, Ankara MP Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu. Mr. Kuşoglu, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0035par0479	Thank you. I have taken a personal oath on the Law Proposal to change certain Laws and Laws in 302 rows. I salute you all. My dear friends, this is an offer of law that we're discussing, literally, a law that will embarrass us in the future, and it is, in fact, a procedure and content. The first time the proposal came, it was 39 articles -- I didn't get lazy, I counted -- 39 articles about 35 different laws. It was a 39-point proposal and 35 different laws, which brought about a change of 20 or so. What do you normally do with an offer like that? You transfer it to the subcommittee, it's reviewed in the subcommittee, then it comes to the General Assembly. No, he wasn't transferred to the subcommittee. The Plan Budget Commission passed immediately that day, and as it was passed, 20 more articles were added to those 39 articles, and many different laws were added. I'm going to say, well, it's complicated, I'm going to say, but the soup is sweet -- it's like a tasteless salt-free thing, it's become inextricable, it's in front of us. We've made a lot of laws like this, unfortunately. In the coming days, in the coming years, we will be ashamed to make laws like these. Someone will say: "Was his eyes blind, and how did they pass such a law? " When a law is made, relevant laws are scanned; they have a connection with them; they are corrected; they are taken into account; they are offered that; they are brought in, they are made that way; they are made that way. In no way, not even the relevant public institutions have been given any opinion. It was brought from the relevant vocational rooms, NGOs or the academic world without any opinion whatsoever. You're looking at motive, you know, none of that, anything in the motive? And there's nothing in the motive. It doesn't make sense, yes, it has to come out, we can say, we think it should come out, but there's no reason to... It's really going to put us in trouble in the coming days, in the years. That's the context, so there's a problem with it being brought in. So how's the content, how's the procedure, how's the content? He's also, in a similar way, troubled, scandalous material, so even if it's good, it shouldn't come out this way, but in context it's bad, unfortunately, it's bad. We'll see them in detail when we get to the materials, but I'll tell you this, most of them are not right for timing, they're not rational and they're not consistent. Legally, in terms of context, in terms of procedure, but personally, it's capable of bleeding our conscience. Perhaps Mr. Irony interrupted his speech a little too soon, with such a comprehensive amendment. I thank him, because he's a conscientious friend. I'll tell you this: I mean, something that just occurred to me, so turn around like Joseph and your shirt will be torn from behind. Such an offer of law, my dear friends, has such content. Now, you're acting on political concerns, you're talking, you're reflecting your party's views. You're going to say, "No, but these sincere views are really about the law, about matter." If you go into detail, you'll see that they're not true. For example, there's an offer on the Court that's being cut off from the control authority in the Court. A year and a half ago, the Law of the Court came out of Parliament, and when it did, there were already restrictions on the audit. It hasn't been implemented yet, and there hasn't been a single report here to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Court, on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're cutting down a place and its powers for the nation, and the Court -- I've met with friends in the office -- is not aware of this, it's called later during talks, they're not coming because it's impossible to change. Why are we changing it? And there's no logical excuse for motive. Why are we changing it? I mean, we'd want to understand that, and we'd want to support that. Now, not just the Court, my dear friends, but the decrees of the law issued last year, 35 laws, and then there's already been a change of logic in the state. In the years to come, it will be noticed, it will not be noticed now, but the body of the state has changed, its understanding has changed, its spirit has changed. In the coming years, we'll be in trouble about them, about the state structure. It's already been troubled, it hasn't been fixed, but we've put the state in more trouble when it should be reorganised. From now on, we'll see the troubles. See how the control of the Court was restricted, and the state was not constrained in the same way, and the control of the state has been completely eliminated. In all ministries, inspection committees, audit boards have been removed, and nothing has been neglected or replaced. How does it work if there's no control in the government? There are two and a half million officers, people working in the public, and if they don't get audited, how will this work? How do you deal with corruption? Is that why it's been lifted? I don't want to say this, but I don't see any other reason. How else is there a reason for the state's suspension, the removal of control? How else is it possible that the Court's law, which was passed a year and a half ago, was brought back here without any reports? There is another issue: We are establishing companies for the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. Well, so far we've done privatisation, we've said, "Let's take them from outside." We said, "Let's take services from outside in the competition environment." Has the state's logic changed? Is anyone here aware of that? Has the state's logic changed, and we are now creating new SOCs, building new SOCs? We don't buy goods and services in competition, and we say: "We're going to start a company ourselves, they're going to become board members, they're going to be board members, they're going to get money, they're also going to be exempt from the tender law, they're going to be exempt from control." Am I saying something unfair when I'm criticizing this? Am I saying something wrong or wrong? What kind of understanding, that kind of government? Is it possible for the government to run this way? It's an offer that will make us all blush, and shame us in the future, my dear friends. For example, the establishment of vocational schools in organised industrial areas is one of the best offers, one of the best materials, but it's vague. It's supposed to be organized, it's supposed to be organized as a law, it really is, but we're squeezing it into a legal clause. There's going to be a lot of trouble with the application. There's no need. Let's organize such a beautiful incentive, let's make it a law on its own. Why are we squeezing it into a substance? We've got time, we've got time, it's done by now. Room elections -- for example, the reason is, there are 100,000 members in the Ankara Chamber or Istanbul. But there are 56,000 people in attendance. So that's how we plan the 100,000 people to participate in the elections? Three hundred thousand people? That's not a reason, but it was brought in as a motive. There's no such thing as an app. There's not a single clause in this bag of laws involving arrested lawmakers. Eight of our friends, the chosen person, unfortunately, are currently under arrest and related to them, and we haven't done anything in over a year. That's our shame. I say again, turn around like Joseph, and your shirt will be torn from behind, and I give you all my respects, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0036par0495	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. On behalf of the individuals, the last speaker is Mustafa Baloglu, the Konya MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0037par0499	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge to make changes to some Laws in 302 rows, and I salute your delegation. Dear lawmakers, a bag of proposals for amendments to some laws passed by our Commission has brought very important regulations for our country. Some of these regulations are intended to appoint 30,000 policemen and teachers for our teachers and policemen who have long been waiting for good news. In addition, the proposal includes arrangements that concern our college candidates closely. The 12 years of mandatory education passed by our parliament and the score computation system was redesigned at the university, the success points of the high school colleges were removed from the computation system. According to the bag offer passed by our commission, this year will be based on the student selection and placement examination, which was established by the institute's decision on November 30th and December 1, 2011. So success points, middle school achievement scores, will be added to our students' scores on this year's university exams. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this bill brings good news to our pensioners. Retireds in difficult situations will also receive help when social benefits are denied without any social security. Lawsuits against pensioners or low-paying people will be dismissed for receiving benefits while working under insurance, and even if they have debts, 65-year-olds will not be allowed to be foreclosed even if they have permission. I believe this decision will make all our pensioners smile. This law, which will help our pensioners to live on many new regulations, from the unemployment fund to the unemployment fund, will help those who are less than a third less than the net amount of the family's income. In this case, for example, if a family of four receives a pension fee of $650, this family will be able to ask for help. In addition, our citizens, the relatives of our martyrs and veterans who have suffered disasters will also be judged in this scope. As an AK PARTY, we made it a point to keep the trusts of our martyrs. Currently, compensation is being paid for those who were killed in the fight against terrorism, including the village rangers. In terms of numbers, $4.2m has been paid for the martyrs and wounded in 2010 and $5m in cash in 2011. So far, 11.142 martyrs and disability have been employed in the state of the estate, which can work with our relatives. This bill and the right of employment to our fallen relatives have been envisioned to be increased from one to two. As for our investors, who played a major role in the development of our country... Deliable lawmakers have also made arrangements to ensure that investors who have not been able to make the commitment and employment due to difficulties will be able to complete their investments by taking advantage of their credit opportunities. AS AK PARTY, our goal has always been to improve the environment of investment and business, to promote institutional management principles. In addition to encouraging investments to build successful new businesses, we continue to open the way for business by training people. As part of our party's goals, 750 entrepreneurship education programmes and 15,000 entrepreneurs will be given training and 20 million euros for a thousand new entrepreneurs. In addition, 15 new business development centres will be established to provide business environments for new entrepreneurs. In support programmes based on priority and importance for women and family, women entrepreneurs will receive 10 per cent of positive discrimination. I'd like to point out that we aim to increase women's participation in the labour force from 27.7 per cent in 2010 to 35 per cent in 2023, in line with our 2023 goals. The law, which includes many important regulations for our country and our citizens, also aims to end problems with energy privatisations, street and street lighting costs. From now on, our Department of Energy will conduct all kinds of inspections, so that the gaps in the control of electricity distribution companies in terms of investment and business activities will be cleared. With his pension, his investor, his police, his teacher and his student, we will continue to be a loving, embracing, and at peace with his citizen. At the time when we left nine years of stability and security, we raised the education budget from 7.4 billion TL to 39 billion TL. We raised the schooling rate from 91 per cent to 98 per cent in primary school and from 50 per cent to 69 per cent in secondary school. We've increased the number of teachers by 34 percent, the number of faculty by 46 percent. We've distributed free books to our schools that cost $265 million. Mr. President, our Turkish police force has been among the most reliable institutions in 73 per cent, according to Turkish Statistical Agency's research into life satisfaction as a result of success in community-supported police service. I'd like to say once again that we're proud of our police as a result of these achievements. Again, we have increased the loan and housing authority to rent for five years to twelve. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are bringing important regulations, as I mentioned upstairs, to change certain laws. I salute your delegation with respect and love, hoping that this law will pass through the House.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0038par0517	Thank you, Mr. Baloglu. Members of parliament, talks on the bill have been completed on behalf of groups and on behalf of individuals. Now we're going to do 20 minutes of QA. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0039par0521	Mr. President, now that we've moved on to the questions, we'll move on to the chapters. However, the 39th article of this bill clearly violates the 160th article of the Constitution. Article 160 of the Constitution (the Constitution) has organised the Court's mandate. According to this clause, public administrations under the central management budget and social security institutions' revenues, expenses and goods are supervised by the Court on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Accounts and transactions of the responsible are determined in this framework. The arrangement of the proposal in the relevant article will completely upset this clause. The clause in the proposal describes regulations such as regulations, such as regulations, which are issued by public administrations who are subject to the Court's supervision, as ▪ the regulations that should be observed. So in the name of Parliament, the Court cannot make an audit on behalf of the Turkish Nation, based on its budgetary rights, while the executive body can't make an inspection on the basis of its writings, such as regulations, regulations, general writing, circuses. In a sense, in the sense that data accepts them and implements them, if the Court does the audit, we'll be linking the Supreme Assembly of Turkey to the executive body, the administration of the Supreme Assembly, to the relevant administrations. Therefore, as long as this clause is not removed, it is not possible for the proposal to be entered into the terms of the proposal and to be discussed in its sections, and if it is discussed, it would be contrary to the Constitution. Please review this clause in this frame, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0040par0523	Mr. President, we, as the National Movement Party, have previously expressed this bill during the agenda of these proposals. The Court is auditing Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Thus, the transformation of this administration into a non-responsive state prevents the Turkish Grand National Assembly from using its authority and sovereignty directly. In this regard, the removal of this clause is important to ensure the safety of this law. There's another matter. Mr. President, I don't know, but in its nature, the 168th Amendment is under the government's rule and resources. The right to search and operate these things belongs to the state... but it is again under the 16th Amendment to privatisation of the state-owned domains. Now, on one hand, the Constitution says that they are under the government's jurisdiction, and on the other hand, for privatisation of them, there is a law clause for privatisation of the sites of the lignite, which is against the Constitution. So while these provisions are in the open, I would like to take this opportunity to express that it is not right to have an interview about them. So beyond the claim that the Constitution is contrary, they should not be discussed here; this is not a simple claim of violation of the Constitution; this is clearly an anti-constitutional arrangement. This will be run by the hand of the state. It says, "Let's privatize." It's called.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0039par0525	Mr. President, I think we should take a break.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0041par0526	Mr. President, the 39th article has been discussed and discussed in the Plan Budget Commission. The Plan Budget Commission has surely assessed these views of him while discussing this proposal, and has also referred to the Constitution as being in line with it. As Article 39 is discussed, our dear friends, political party groups, may make a motion that this is contrary to the Constitution and ask that it be taken out on that subject. In the sense that all relevant talks of the Law have been completed and that the question-answer process is to be started, it is not possible to claim a violation of the Constitution. In Article 39, the Civil Code has stated that a motion will be made, including a violation of the Constitution. When the time comes, when the time is right.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0042par0527	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0043par0528	Mr. President, on the same subject...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0042par0529	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0043par0530	History will write us in this House, my friends. In disputes between law and execution...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0042par0531	Here, let's turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0043par0532	Mr. President, today, a sentence that narrowed down the Court's powers, that would force the government to act as he pleases, that would recognize the freedom of the government, that bag was placed in the law. Now, there's also a process in favor of the government that will ignore life and control in the name of law, which will narrow it down, so the members of this council will raise their hands to reduce their own powers. This is a situation that has never been seen in the assembly of any democratic country. They always have their own authority, their own control, their own right to live, governance, and justice. Now, the Law of the Court has recently been arranged in Parliament, which recently came out. Now, the Court's -- it's a supervisory audit, and this is it -- has already been removed from the control mechanism of the armed forces, regarding the security forces. Now, if it's removed from auditing the government, I think there's only one thing the EC PARTY would do: raise an offer, remove the Court, you're tickled by being audited, so when there's really a little thing that controls you, you react immediately that it's inconsequential, this time, to make that institution completely dysfunctional, it's a constitutional institution. Then what will the Clave use control for? How will the House control it? How will Congress control it when it's spent in the budget, when the citizen's money is spent in the treasury? If there's a waste, if there's corruption, if there's something else, how will it be audited? Such an approach is contrary to the Constitution. Such a law, which is contrary to the Constitution, cannot be discussed. This has to go back now. And, with the belief of democracy, the legislature must have its own powers. Mr. President, the Court is an institution under the control of our presidency, under the control of the Speaker of Parliament, under the control of the Prime Minister, is not the TOKI account. When we look at it from this point of view, a grave error is made, which must be corrected and taken into account the violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0044par0536	Members of parliament, the issue consists of assessments of the content of the clause. These allegations could be expressed in the opinion of the section of the article, which may include amendments to the content of the clause, including the Constitutional Amendment. There is no obstacle to the continuation of the proposal. It will be done at the time of the evaluation of the matter in question.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0045par0538	Mr. President, this is the basic law, of course, the matter is impossible to discuss.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0044par0539	No, it's possible, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0045par0540	The matter cannot be discussed, sir, only the motion can be made, that's all. Each group has a right to a motion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0044par0541	If the motion is given... See, I'm reading Article 84: The motions for rejection of a bill or a proposal during the debates of the General Assembly are voted before other proposals, on the grounds that a specific clause of the bill or proposal is contrary to the Constitution. When a motion is made on the matter, it's discussed, you know, we'll do it in the meantime.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0046par0544	Mr. President, of course that's rhetorical. With the spirit of the Constitution, sovereignty belongs to the unconditional nation, and we say that sensitivity to restricting that control authority must be adopted by everyone. We have nothing to say for those who don't have that sensitivity. And you need to take care of that sensitivity.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0044par0545	Thank you, sir. Your words have been taken. Now, your friends who were in the system...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0047par0547	Mr. President, there's a problem: The basic law is clearly described in the Civil Code of 91. He says he will systematically change a rule of law completely or comprehensively. This bag is the law. This bag is not a branch of law, it has 100,000 branches of law; it has health, it has education, it has energy, it has insurance, it has social security... so it's a fundamental law that can't be considered as a fundamental law. In this regard, if we're going to open the discussion on this clause... it's also known to groups that the condition of this clause's violation of the Constitution is only known for its ability to speak with the motions. This is against the Civil Code, which means the bag itself is against the Civil Code, not the basic law. It may be the law of basics, but it is not the basic law.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0048par0548	Mr. President, if he reads the second sentence of 91, there's a statement there about the basic law, Mr. Kaplan will see this expression there.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0047par0549	Indeed, he calls a branch of law systematic, Mr. Elistash calls a branch of law systematic.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0049par0550	Mr. Kaplan, your word has been taken. Then there's the possibility of an objection. If you'll excuse me, sir, we'll proceed as I say.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0047par0551	Mr. President, this really healthy living thing is falling apart.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0049par0552	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the friends who entered the system for the QA, in turn. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0050par0555	Thank you, Mr. President. The law we're talking about has a lot of jobs, but there's already no solution for workers working on subcontractors, especially those of the 4/C. Do you intend to make an attempt to solve the problem of 4/C? Again, in Article 37 of the law, an estimated 1.5 billion-dollar source from municipalities and private administrations, which will be provided with special consumption tax on the revenues transferred to the city's private administrations and municipalities, is being smuggled from municipalities and private administrations. Now, as a government that has been speaking for ten years on the charge of strengthening local governments, how do you argue that the resources of local governments have been so severely narrowed down? Is this acceptable? How do you explain this to local authorities, private administrations and municipalities? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0051par0559	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0052par0561	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President, in Article 17, it says that the Fak Fuk Fund, known as the Social Aid and Solidarity Act, has been taken advantage of by our martyrs, veterans, veterans, and pensioners. By bringing this law, do you claim that we have condemned our retired people to Fak Fuk Fon. In the same way, we have condemned our martyrs to Fak Fuk Fon. Our veterans are left in the hands of Fak Fuk Fon. Is that what you mean? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0053par0564	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0054par0566	Thank you, Mr. President. You've just said that your statements have been contained, but, God willing, they'll be implemented in the future. I'll start my questions with a wish: Question 1: Is it the Law of Bags to disable the law and to expedite its laws? Question 2: Can bag laws be discussed according to the basic method of law? I want to know what his legal basis is. Question 3: In what ways do you need a bag of law? The question is: How many laws and laws have been considered as the basic law during the Second Legislature, the 22nd, 23rd and 24th Legislature? Question 5: What is the basis for whether or not a law is a bag of laws? What needs did the bag of law come from? Question 6: Is it true that the traditional commission system has been disabled in Bag application? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0055par0575	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0056par0576	What's the number of substances that concern your Ministry in the 59-point bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0055par0578	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0057par0580	Mr. Secretary, I was with furniture makers in the Ingegöl district of Burma, last week. They said all export connections have been cancelled due to the threat of war. Again, the pears and peach manufacturers in Gursu district of Burma said all export connections have been cancelled. When we got together with the Niğde truckers, he said the warehouses were full of potatoes and all export connections were canceled. Again, the Asian manufacturers that we met yesterday said: "All the onions are in our hands." Finally, a Hatay merchant said: "I can't even send a truckload of goods. All the products were left behind. Wouldn't it be better if we moved this country to peace instead of war to fill the bag of citizens instead of running around with the law?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0055par0582	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0058par0584	Mr. Secretary, with this bill, 25 new counseling staffs are being brought into the presidency of the Religious Affairs, which should not be in a secular country. I got a call the other day by the president of Didim Alevi Bektashi Cultural Center and Cemevi Society. I've decided that the public land, which they've been using for years, is on the property of the treasure, and I've decided that they've taken an article in the form of a checkout and that they want to be evacuated. Now, I'd like to ask your Ministry: When will the Cemevs be accepted as a meeting place and will benefit from public rights equally? Is it possible for the governor to request that the mosques be evacuated in any public land? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0055par0586	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Agha... Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0059par0589	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question: it turns out that cars with red plates are going to be more, they're going to be bought. Will your conscience agree to such a thing when the courts in Denizli are being shut down for lack of money, while people cannot achieve access to the courts? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0060par0592	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0061par0594	Thank you, Mr. President. The dictionary meaning of the "Torba" is defined in the form of a bag, which can be a variety of sizes. With the word of the law placed on his head, what carrier is the law of the bag? Question 2: Is it to ensure that the opposition and NGOs do not effectively participate in the process of making laws through the adoption of Bags? Question 3: The Ministry of Justice filed a motion to stop the execution on October 16, 2011, which did not receive the examination and training. The decision has been made to halt the execution of the trial, but the Minister of Justice does not comply with the decision to stop the execution. Isn't the 138th article of the Constitution binding the Minister of Justice? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0062par0599	Mr. Dawn...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0063par0600	Thank you, Mr. President. A country thrives on education. 30,000 teachers are taken and about 30,000 police officers are taken. Shouldn't there be more teaching staff? What do you think about that?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0062par0602	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0064par0604	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister: there's been a lot of incidents in our town of Bursa Yenişehir. Later, in Inegöl, there was a lot of activity. According to the Agricultural County Directorate's assessments in Yenişehir and Bursa, 85 per cent of our products have been damaged, Minister, but so far no transactions have been made. Asked about it, forwarded to the Minister of Agriculture. No transaction has been made as a TARSIM or as a Ministry. That's how the olives were dispossessed before. Now New City and Ingegöl are being dispossessed? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0065par0607	Thank you. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0066par0609	Mr. Secretary, with this bill, you want to encourage vocational high schools in organised industrial areas per student and develop the private sector here. Now, at the same time, it's also the reason for the closure of the education school and the removal of the equality of opportunity. Now, I'd like to ask you, if these schools, especially the ones that work parents prefer, are closed, won't they be condemned to private schools, study centers and nurses? How will the rest of these children solve their problems, especially if children go to part-time schools? At the same time, do not work for women, stay home and look after your children. Is the message being delivered? How are you going to resolve the victimization of these education and nutrition schools? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0067par0612	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0068par0614	Mr. President, thank you. The year 2010, at Erzurum, they ask for imams in a test for substitute imams, and they know two of the three questions. The third question is, a song about Abraham Tatlises is requested. And that's because he doesn't know. In recent days, tests have been opened in Erzurum, about mullahs and imams, and everyone from the region has been excluded and approved by outsiders, and we know what a group of imams came to me today and we invite them all to read the Quran in public. Those who don't know have passed the test, but we've only been excluded because of our identity. And not only in one district but in all Kurdish geography, all imams have a complaint like this. I'd appreciate it if Mr. Secretary could fill us in on this.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0067par0616	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, have them come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0618	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Erdogan asked if there was any study of ο/C in this frame. No. Of course, it's in the current regulations, but I think our Ministry of Labor will bring it to the agenda of both our government and our Parliament as we mature, whether it's in other areas of our working life or not. When we look at it, it won't be possible because the practice of temporary matter is already being converted into a permanent state with this legal change.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0070par0621	We're waiting for the city's revenue to rise.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0622	So there won't be any going back in their current income. Also, I have to say that in the time of our governments, in the period of the EC PARTY, municipalities' share has not declined, has increased; there has been a positive approach to municipalities.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0070par0623	Then why did you cut this money?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0624	There's already an actual situation here that's already been applied, which is applied in this way with the interim matter, which is being made permanent. So other than that, there won't be any actual reflection of that in the city's revenues. Mr. Sinan Bey had a question about the pensioners, saying, "Do you need our deputy, Fuk Fuk Fon??" SINAN Oğan, not just the pensioners; our martyrs, our veterans... The other, yes, you said it about a number of other segments. Now, when we think like that, we develop a restrictive approach to the rights of our people. The goal here is to give it a social right here, in case the income that comes down to a certain level when you think about the family, too. If we brand it poverty, if we look at it like this, we're not giving up those rights to our people, we're making them victims.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0071par0628	If he's not poor, why are you giving him welfare?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0629	On the contrary here, an arrangement in favor of our pensioners and others...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0072par0630	Let's increase the rights of our martyrs, our veterans. Don't let them need Fok Fuk Fon.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0071par0631	What if they're not poor? Why are you giving out welfare?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0632	We're making an adjustment.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0072par0633	On the contrary, let's make a further adjustment.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0634	If we can avoid this arrangement with some controversy, we'll be victimizing our people, not doing anything in their favor. So the event here -- as I said -- is that when you look at it as a family, not as a single person, but as a family, if its income is going below a certain level, then we've opened up a way to provide additional support for those people. It's in their favor. But if we, you know, sacrifice them to other political debates, we don't do anything for our people, we create a public opinion against them. So here...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0072par0636	Madam Secretary, it would be a shame if you said so. Let's give more rights to our martyrs and veterans.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0637	Well, that's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0072par0638	Let's not make them do it.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0639	What you call social welfare is a fund. You can benefit from different segments of this fund.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0072par0640	Minister, can you accept this?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0641	Yes, but here...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0072par0642	Can you agree that a person who gave his life for the country needs the Poor Poor Fund?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0073par0643	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0069par0644	My dear Regent, there's a fund here, a source, and it's an arrangement in favor. If we don't see this and get ahead of those rights with other arguments, we won't be benefiting our fallen relatives.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0072par0645	Mr. Secretary, it must be done in such an ethical frame so that the relatives of our martyrs will not be hurt on their conscience.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0073par0646	Mr. Oğan, may I ask you? Mr. Oğan... please listen to the question. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0072par0647	It's not like that...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0074par0648	It's being deflected, we're asking, the answer is different.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0073par0649	It's not true... it's a question, Mr. Secretary, and it's an answer, please listen.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0650	Mr. Tanal had different questions, various questions about the law, many questions. Of course, the bag law arrangement is not an arrangement that began today, but also in the past, in the period of very different governments, practices during different parliamentary periods, practices built into a need. In order to make a change in different laws simultaneously, such practices can be carried out in order to save more time for the House. If we're looking for a more radical solution here, maybe we should get the Civil Code back on the table and discuss it. It would be much more useful for me to make these arrangements in a more efficient, efficient way for our parliament to make them, but if we can't do that, it's a reality to use the bag laws when we change many laws at the same time. This reality has existed in the past, and today we have this reality. Of course, we need to do this as much as possible by discussing it, by talking, I have no objection there, but this is not an app that we've just found, that we've just brought in. Like I said, I think it might be helpful to consider this in connection with the general Civil Code debates. Mr. Pine asked if there's any substance that concerns our ministry. There's nothing directly relevant to our ministry, but as a minister, of course, as a member of the government, I'd say we're interested in a lot of things again, in a very indirect way. There are, of course, substances that concern us, indirectly, with the duties we take on various boards, with our various activities. One more question about exports. It was said that our exports to the Middle East had dropped and declined, especially the conflicts in the Middle East, which led to this, and that we wanted peace, not war. Of course, none of us can resist it, we all want peace, we all want a more peaceful region. To increase prosperity in the Middle East, there is no doubt a more stable environment in the Middle East in order for people to become more prosperous. A more democratic, more peaceful environment within the country, no doubt economically beneficial, as well as the resolving of problems between countries. From the Palestinian-Israeli issue to the events in Syria, we, of course, want to see the Middle East more peaceful, but these are not the issues Turkey has created, but the issues Turkey feels the effects of, and we try to limit as much as possible. When you look at Turkey's overall export performance in a very radical way, there's not a picture that's as pessimistic as it's just been drawn. Of course, there are negative effects, but when we look at our general export performance, we see that this year our exports have not dropped, our exports have increased. In fact, there was a $6.9, $7 billion export in our Southeast Anatolian region last year. I believe we'll be able to capture this export again. Turkey is now a country that looks after the world. When there's a problem in one market, our companies can move to other markets, and they're going to develop our exports in other areas, and we have that flexibility. So we don't expect any serious setbacks throughout our exports. He asked me a question about Mr. Corporate. Of course, the Religion is now a constitutional institution, and its regulations for the staff, such as other institutions, are being carried out by our Parliament from time to time. In fact, I don't want to get into any of these other discussions at this point, so maybe our Minister in charge of Religion can give us a more thorough answer when he arrives. The courts and authorities compared the cars, Mr. Ayhan. So here, of course, in public, we have to try to increase savings in every area, so we're on the same page here. But spending time and time in matters that need to be done is also a requirement for the public, and what matters is whether it is necessary or not it really is necessary. It needs to be done by the administration, by the administration.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0076par0657	Sir, is there less important justice services than power tools? If your resources are limited, you need to prioritize.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0658	The savings of the courts here are all about scale.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0077par0659	What scale? Did the scale change in a week?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0660	In areas under a certain workload, courthouses have been closed and the public's work is more savings. Other than that, he has no purpose.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0077par0661	You're not telling the truth, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0078par0662	Will it save justice, Mr. Secretary, save justice?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0663	There's no saving justice, there's justice again. A 10km...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0078par0664	Look, you're legitimizing the money you're giving to government vehicles, you want to save money on justice. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0665	There's no saving in justice. We discussed this in the past and in other areas.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0078par0666	You can't put justice with the municipalities, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0667	Look, there's what we call a scale, there's a lot of that in the private sector, there's a lot of that in the public sector.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0079par0668	You've turned off 128, you've reopened 44.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0669	Obviously, if there's any way that you can offer mass service in a much closer area, you'll take advantage of the opportunity to save more...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0080par0670	Why don't we save money for the PM?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0671	You'll be able to offer the service with more savings. That's what this is about.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0081par0672	Mr. Secretary, if you do, you're running out of time, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0075par0673	Are we out of time? It's about the teachers' staff, so if you'll excuse me, I'll finally answer that. In February of this year, an opportunity was created for 17,000 new teachers, now and in the coming period 40,000. That's a really big number. Here, of course, we have to work together in both the quantity and the quality of our teachers. With all the resources we can afford, we prioritize education. For years, our national education has been number one in the budget, and one of the main reasons is that we've actually increased the number of teachers. In the coming period, these studies will be carried out, again, within a specific plan. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0082par0676	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. Is there a roll call, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0083par0679	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0082par0680	There's a request for a roll call, and we're doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi? Here. Mr. Aslanoglu? Here. Mr. Gürkan? Here. Mr. Moon? Here. Mr. Akar? Here. Mr. Eyeborn? Here. Mr. Sky? Here. Mr. Karaahmetoglu? Here. Mr. Clumsy? Here. Mr. Young? Here. Mr. Tanal? Here. Mr. Pine? Here. Mr. Eryılmaz? Here. Mr. Canalioğlu? Here. Mr. Acar? Here. Mr. Sesame? Here. Your Grace? Here. Mr. Topstone? Here. Mr. Yellowhead? Here. Mr. Chosen? Here. Mr. Yilmaz? Here. We're going to do an electronic check-up now. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes that the proposal be passed, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's start interviewing part one of the proposal. The first chapter covers the 1st to 21st article. The first speaker on behalf of the groups on the first chapter is Antalya MP Mehmet Günal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Günal, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0084par0719	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, my condolences to all the Turkish nation, who have been killed in recent events and in previous days. Mr. President, if you could provide a calm... friends get a lot of company after a roll call. No ten minutes of roll call, fellas. Dear friends, we're up against another AKP classic. It's the end of the semester again. Another bag, another soup, an unrelated proposal for the law where everything's filled up again. We're really up against an imposition. What kind of a thing is this... that the Justice and Development Party can't draft a bill? Mr. Secretary, can't you stand behind this? I mean, why do they come up with these offers? We've talked many times. So, what happens when you come up with an offer? The Plan and Budget Commission operates like the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions, and our friends ignore the corrections that we're saying, and we spend hours and hours in vain. Is that even possible? Mr. President, would you please keep the peace? I was kind enough to warn you, but my friends are standing here talking. Look. I mean, that's not gonna happen. There's no disrespect like that!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0085par0726	Mr. President, it's not a negotiation. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0084par0727	Mr. President, I've asked you, please, to...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0086par0728	The speaker's losing concentration.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0084par0729	That's not gonna happen. Let them talk outside. No roll call for ten minutes, nothing.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0087par0731	Don't talk, dear! Mr. President must give his warning.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0088par0732	Yeah, let's keep the peace, guys. I'm afraid we can't hear the preacher.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0084par0733	I can't even hear myself, where will my friends hear me? Dear friends, I say the most important thing, I defend your will. Look, here comes our friends, they're being shoved into things that they don't know about, and you have to sign things that aren't in their area of expertise. I mean, it's not a law proposition, it's actually a bill. The government's bill was signed as an offer. Is that even possible? You're looking inside, 35 separate laws and regulations. I mean, how is it that our friends bring these 35 laws together and give them to us in terms of expertise? Then what's going on? Something unrelated is happening. Now, Minister, where did this offer come from? From the Plan and Budget Commission; well... when we make an offer here, my friends are coming right away. This has nothing to do with the law, we don't accept this motion. General Directorate of Laws and Decisions. So, who's transferring this to the Plan and Budget Commission? Head of the TBMM. And I'm warning you as the Presidential Court, Mr. President. It's about the Justice Commission, it's about the Industrial, it's about the Technology Commission, it's about a lot of irrelevant, it's not about us, it's about the National Education Commission, it's about voters, it's about election logs, what's the plan and the Budget Commission doing? Well, sir, we're in a hurry. Why didn't you bring it so far? So we haven't discussed what you've brought, and we're not working late at night? We waited until half last night because of your unnecessary whims, and now there's another law today. We discussed the EXPO bill yesterday. Unfortunately, what happens when such an offer comes? Here, God rest his soul from the Ministry of Development, which you are responsible for, the DPT will be taken into consideration in all matters -- the proposal of the law is not taken when it comes to opinion. Now, tell me, have you given any opinion on this as the Ministry of TUBITAK?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0089par0738	Who's going to report it?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0084par0739	I mean, who's gonna report it? So who are you going to ask? Now, Dear Minister, this TÜBITAK, along with that -- we just told you about the number -- about the energy control issue, you got it, what? Sir, if the EPDK can't do it... what if the EPDK can't do it? Why are you standing there? No interested ministers? If the EPDK is incompetent, let's back him up. What do we do? Have the Ministry take it. Good, good. There's also this ridiculous logic, Mr. Secretary: In one case he can't control energy distribution companies. We take it away from him, we give it to the ministry. Well, let's have EPDK oversee production... Aren't production companies being audited then? There aren't many rants left in him, of course, there's not much there, so we could check that production, we gave him licenses, but the real thing is in distribution... now, such a double standard, there can't be such an unprovoked arrangement. Dear friends -- our members of the group -- have just explained -- that the amendment motions will be issued, unfortunately, in the matter, and will be removed from the Court's authority; and in an contrary way, the privatisation of the lignite mines has been placed here. Well, on one hand you say specialization, even though it's in the Constitution, you're privatizing it against the Constitution, and on the other hand, you're saying, let's form two public institutions. What's that like? I mean, let's privatize it on the one hand, whatever comes our way... I want you to start a company, start a company. Where's your privatisation logic? Can that happen, guys? So I'm talking to your conscience -- there are people from these sectors, there are people from the bureaucracy, there are academics, we have roommates -- I mean, let's put logic on one side, let's set up a company from the other side, let's start a company from the other side. How do you explain that? We're dealing with a freak like this, unfortunately. And what will be the result of that? I'll tell you. TÜBITAK is one of the institutions established by the late Alparslan Turkesh, the founder of our party, Turkey's Scientific and Technical Research Agency. On top of that, he'll be interested in science and technology, research and development. Now, Mr. President is here, isn't that a shame? Tomorrow, you'll call, Mr. President. Let's appoint Philip to the board.....and now the President will deal with this? Will he become a political institution or give up on it, and now, will he become a member of the board of directors of the company appointed by TUBITAK? Does he know about this or not? So management is another job, academic, teaching, research is another job. Of course, as the National Movement Party, we care about technology, we care about RD, we want high-tech products to be produced, we want that technology to turn into products, and it can't be natural, but TBITAK is a research institution that should be in a directional position here, not a business institution. So these should be taken into consideration again, unfortunately, in a hurry, because there was no bill, the opinions were incomplete, so they were not considered. In the same way, we are having another discussion about the OSYM, which was the most controversial institution in the past period. Now, he says, Mr. President, we've asked the Commission: "Sir, a company is in a monopoly, let's build our own printing press to prevent it." So you're removing all of the functions of the State Supplies Office on the other hand, you're saying, let's take everything from the outside, let's take it from the outside. You're keeping the Public Contractorship on the outside where it suits you, you're bringing exceptions and exemptions, we're saying, "Let's close it off." On the other hand, let's assign another member to the Public Admission Agency, sir. What kind of contradiction is this? So the letters in the alphabet are almost finished, we've come to the (sh), the exception, the exemption clauses. Why don't you want an expert when all these agencies are exempt? Is the vice president going to solve the need for a public tender? Of course, when he cannot change what is available, then let us appoint a new man. Unfortunately, this has become an AKP classic, my dear friends. On the other hand, with this law, we commit certain teachers and police staffs. Of course, it's an inadequate teaching staff, which has been requested during the last budget period, in connection with national education. We, the National Movement Party, are always for the maintenance of the required staff, but the remaining teachers also need to be appointed. There are also demands for police personnel, but we've already stated there, first of all, that the current police have to improve their situation, improve their rights, plus the injustice between them. On the one hand -- Mr. Secretary just didn't answer the questions -- but there's a freak here, dear friends. The law itself admits that pensioners and minimum wage workers here are already in need of assistance, Mr. Secretary. You just said that, but this one, our friends about Fuk Fon. Let me give you a very brief example. Now, as of July, the minimum wage comes to $2246 per cent, so if we do the income per person in the household, everybody who gets less than $986 becomes needy here, and that goes into coverage. What does that mean? Almost all of the pensioners and minimum wagers here are now in need of this help, which is a confession from the government. So this kind of addition isn't about solving it with the law, with the bags, with the patching. Come on, let's get this kind of work together, with the support of the opposition, and not with the constraints, as in yesterday's EXPO, but with compromises, and we'll get rid of what's not necessary and what's not in a hurry, and let's leave it for the next season. He repeats, I wish him well again.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0090par0748	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Mr. Aydın Ayadın, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0091par0752	Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the Republican People's Party on the Law Proposal of 302 rows. I hereby salute your high council. AKP Power has given our country a new tradition, a new breakthrough in disregarding the procedures and fundamentals of legislation. The AKP Power, which converts the bag law into law enforcement, the bag is not enough, the soup is signing the laws, bringing important issues to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, not as a bill, but as a law proposal. Of course, every congressman has the right to make an offer of the law. Our promise is not to the will of the lawmakers; it is our word to the AKP government, who has signed the law proposal they have made as a government, and who follows it, by putting aside the laws of the law, as it were in this proposal, in order to get them out as soon as possible. Why? I'll tell you this right away: During the AKP government's administration, the regulations for drafting a bill are stipulated that it is imperative that the opinion of the ministries and public institutions and institutions be taken before it is presented to the Prime Minister. Offering an arrangement as a bill depends on certain rules, but the rules, as in most places, disturb the AKP, and the rules on this matter are bypassed by the power of the majority of votes. For it will take time to present an arrangement as a bill, not in the interest of the AKP, but in terms of time and content, to get opinions from public institutions, and perhaps the view will be given contrary to what the AKP wants. This proposal we've been discussing is also under way during the AKP period, which violates rules and rules of law-making techniques. It is an offer of law in which there are provisions for the regulation of nearly forty laws. I think he deserves the name of the law, not the torba. Who knows, maybe you can do what you've done here in the Commission as AKP, and during the General Assembly talks, you can apply new materials to this package with these motions. I believe that because you've done it before, you can do it again. Because during the Commission talks, you've added 19 other clauses to this proposal for non-relevant, different areas. So, what do we do to such a bundle? We're meeting as basic law. That must be the height of the sensitivity to the legislature now. Although we've said it many times before, it's a pity that all these issues have not been taken into account, but it also shows the AKP's respect for Parliament. It has now become clear that the AKP's ruling government sees the meeting of legal regulations in parliament as a simple condition of form. That's what it means to respect the will of a nation that never falls from the tongue. I offer this situation to the attention and appreciation of my fellow AKP MP friends, who themselves are parliamentarians. Admissions from companies with which the NGO will personally or will participate are issued under the Public Contract Act 4734. Who knows if this system will set sail for new encrypted exams? Didn't the AKP government take an encrypted test? So even this system didn't cut the AKP. More than that, the public tender law, issued in 2002, was emptied by the AKP Authority. During the AKP period, the tender law has been changed by more than 20, with continuous exceptions added, and almost every public purchase has been excluded. The number of outstripped transactions has risen to nineteen, and all the exceptions have reached the limit. I would like to remind my fellow lawmakers that our alphabet is twenty-nine letters and that we are rapidly approaching the letter of this law. The transparency of public purchases, the competition, the standard of our what? Get rid of the Public Contractorship so you can get rid of it, and we can stop criticizing it. The law proposes to the head of the OSI and to the 5 staff of chief counsels. Which, of course, must be a reciprocal response to the successful practices of the president of the SECS that he's done so far from each other. I wonder, is there going to be a president's advisor on every encrypted test? If we see this, we won't be surprised. At the proposal of the law, the number of 15 counselors assigned to the chairmanship of the Religious Affairs is also raised to 40, and 25 other presidential council staffs are committed. This must be another AKP arrangement that enhances bureaucracy, setting the stage for staffing. The fact that public resources are being used in this way clearly bothers us. If it were one of the most precise indicators of public resources, how well the citizens' money is being used properly... The situation of BOTAS and D.C. Gas is another, it's pathetic. You know, the first act of the 61st government was to increase electricity and natural gas, which was not enough, which increased it for the second time in six months. We've already explained our assessment of these hikes, which have already bent the back of an unemployed and debted citizen who can't make a living. Under these hikes are poor governance, with AKP municipalities failing to pay their debts to BOTAŞ. If you do so, there will be no end to BOTASH. The government, which condones the behavior of AKP-based municipalities, remains silent, has found the solution in the pocket of a citizen and continues to increase energy after increase. Moreover, it is the failure of BOTAŞ to receive the money from Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and to seize the privatisation revenue due to the sale of the capital's natural gas. As a matter of fact, the President of the Privatisation Administration, the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, owes US$ 700m to BOTAŞ, Treasury, due to natural gas. In return, all these goods can be bought, including the dwelling of BOTASH. Of course, all of this comes to a citizen who has a hard time paying high gas costs. Again, with this proposal, the Court's control power, which weakened by Law 6085, issued by the AKP in 2010, is largely removed. The Court is organised as a higher audit institution and an account court on Articles 160 and 164 of our Constitution. To the court, the Court is concerned with a general fitness notification of all public institutions' revenues and costs and account and transactions of the responsible on behalf of the TBMM, the audit and transactions of the local administrations and the final ruling of the account and its transactions. Disarming this means the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be disabled. In this bill, 40,000 teachers of our staff are given a position. But we all know that we have 110,000 candidates waiting to be appointed as teachers. And we all know that our teachers are waiting for their staff. 40,000 teachers are understaffed. He's not responding to need. It would be more appropriate for 110,000 teachers and 110,000 teachers waiting in line to be appointed and to have 110,000 teachers assigned to these staffs as soon as possible to respond to their demands. I wish you all the best and the best of luck in the law.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0092par0767	Thank you, Mr. Ayadun. The third speaker is Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0093par0771	Mr. President, I'm going to give you the opinion of the Peace and Democracy Party regarding 302 rows. I call it "torba" because there's everything in this bag. But I'll start with a shame. This shame should disturb all lawmakers in the House. A law is being passed in 2005. It's a law that's been imposed on the access of disabled people. Here, in public spaces, in parks, in apartments, in order to provide comfortable transportation, communication, there is a clause in this law that is now put into this law to extend it again because it is close to this time. That's what social government crap is called, that's what it's called. It's one of the shames of a bag on behalf of the social government, against the disabled, against the disabled citizens, even delaying the implementation of the law. Now, of course, about this shame, our group will submit a motion. Confederations, they were all in our group, they came, they visited and told of their troubles. Among them was former AK PARTY MP Lokman Ayva. Hopefully, those suggestions will go to other groups, end this disgrace, and that shame will be corrected. I'm going to tell you about one more shame because there are so many shames. What's he saying? Listen to these words, my friends. Look at this system, 72,000 teachers are missing in the country, and you're auditioning teachers. What reason does the KPSS have? ▪ These words may seem familiar to you. One of the opposition leaders told you that? An MP from the opposition told you that? No. That's what the Prime Minister said at the time. Today there are 300,000 teachers short, the teacher is waiting for a transfer. Teachers wait years for a transfer, including dozens of suicides to solve the problem. You guys are building colleges like mushrooms. Well, it's all part of the teaching department. He's fine, but when he graduates, they're all out in the open, so what? Unfortunately, in this regard, every day, the trainers who fight about it get fired up, clubbed, bombed. Another shame here... it's a bag of shame. How could such a shame come together? You leave out your expertise commissions, you violate the Civil Code, you violate the Constitution, you do it your way, you put everything in this bag. Why are you guys taking down court control? In the name of the assembly, the Court shall make an inspection, and shall oversee the government, and ye shall stand up, and lift up your own control authority. Did you put nails in power, so you'll be a government for the rest of your life? I mean, don't you think you're gonna go one day? Don't you think these laws will fall into the hands of others? As a member of the legislature, I find it embarrassing. You will miss control of the House, control of the people's will, and the government. How are you gonna miss it? You'll kidnap him with the TOKI empire. You're missing out on the tender, you're missing out on the Court, you're missing out on taxes, you're missing out on audits, you're bringing in all the powers, you're connecting them to TOKI, and the TOKI is up to the Prime Minister. By God, it's called the PM's office of a contractor, not the presidential system, my friends. That's the shame of the law. It's a terrible shame, I'll tell you. Now, what is the Court's control doing here in the bag of law? Doesn't the Court serve on behalf of Parliament? He's doing it. I don't think the government's completely taken over the Court in ten years, we understand that, that's all we understand. There are opponents there, they're doing legal inspections; they're disturbed by their position. Dear lawmakers, there is another grave situation here: while serving as the TÜBITAK Science Board, the Prime Minister has been given the authority to elect seven executives with one law, and the administration of TÜBİTAK is made up of those that the government wants. This is the Science Board, and now it's starting a company, starting a company, trading. Is that an understanding? When you put trade and science together, you destroy freedom of science, it's called the film center, not the science center, or the film center. Let me be clear with you, TÜBITAK will lose all dignity and become the film center. Again, one more thing: you close the courthouses, you close the military offices, you close the town halls, you shut down the channels to serve the people; then you come to the energy field, you're good at it, you have all the authority in your own hands. Now, Mr. Energy Minister wants to attach EPDK's powers to him, the energy field. I, in fact, am carefully monitoring this curiosity of yours in the field of energy. I see, in the field of energy, its countrymen are in the unions. The unions are the Minister's countrymen. The Minister himself is very curious in the field of energy, but the other day he said that they were stealing from electricity to the southeast people. He accuses the people of a district of theft, openly accuses them of the missing and accuses them of the fugitive, and gives me my name and says: "A MP in the region, Hasip Kaplan," says: "There is electricity here, you take it west." Where is east? Where is west? Friends, in all the developed countries in the world, there's 15 percent of the money left where the mine, where the electricity comes from, that's the way it is all over the world. Now you take 48.7% of the 40-year-old GAP project, you take it away, and in forty years you don't water the Plain of Harran of Şanlıurfa, and you don't water the Plain of Mardin. And then you say that the famous manufacturers owe $2 billion in electricity. Since when did a debtor become a thief? If it's theft, there's no bigger thieves than your Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, I'm telling you. If it's theft, look for the biggest thief yourself. One more thing: look, there's only been a 2 percent increase in irrigation investments from 1,86,000 hectares in the AK PARTI rule period, and you haven't been able to go beyond 282,000 hectares. You're taking these 282,000 hectares with the unemployment fund. Now, I'm here to answer with the president of the EPDK. Look what he says: the biggest fugitive is in Istanbul. Here you go! I'm an MP in Şırnak, Mr. Minister is an MP in Kayseri, and if the electricity debt in Şırnak is 20 times the amount of electricity in its province, if the fugitive is not in its province, then I will resign as a member of parliament, and if he is not a member of the Ministry, then he should resign as a member of parliament. Well, Mr. Minister of Energy, then the Kayseri are thieves too. How can I show you the injustice of saying that to Mr. Elitas? Don't show it, guys. It's not proper for a minister to blame the area, people, to discriminate. I invite you to apologize to all our citizens in the southeast... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...or I'll continue to explain their thefts in the field of energy. He says our people know who's the thief, who's the electricity, who's the energy, and who's not, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0094par0786	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Speeches for the group are complete. Now, on behalf of his people, Mr. Musa Çam, Smyrna MP. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0095par0791	Mr. President, members of Parliament, I salute you all. On April 6, 2011, a law of authority was passed, and based on the law of this authority, the country is governed by 35 decrees issued last year. Now, we've all been in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for a year. I'm in charge of the Plan and Budget Commission. Many laws have come to the Plan and Budget Commission and we've discussed many laws, we've negotiated many laws, but for the first time in my life, I've experienced a period of this amount of time. We've had a lot of long talks about a lot of law proposals coming in, we've had a lot of arguments, we've had a lot of breaks, but for the first time, it's called the law, and it's actually not a bag, it's a sack, it's a bag, it's 36 articles, but it's a total of 59 articles, and it's completely different. Look, guys, our Minister of Development was just here. When I asked the Minister of Development if there was anything in this law proposal that concerned your ministry of law, Mr. Secretary of State, he said there was nothing in it for me, but within these 59 articles, he was discussing the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Energy and of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Social Security, the Ministry of Social Security, the Ministry of Social Policy and Social Policy, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce of Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce of Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce of Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Commerce, the State of Justice, the State, the State, the State, the State of Justice, the State, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, the State of Justice, and the State of Justice. While discussing this in the Plan and Budget Commission recently, the name was Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin. The number of articles involving Mr. Fatma Şahin was only two in 59 articles, and the Minister of 59 articles had to comment and even answer the questions asked. Mr. President, we've been faced with a painting like this: as MPs, as members of the Plan and Budget Commission, we haven't had enough answers to the questions we've asked the bureaucrats. Mr. Secretary couldn't answer the questions we gave him because it wasn't relevant. There was a situation when the EPDK representative stood up there when we talked about energy, where we were opposed to this proposed law, against matter. He took the word and spoke there, but he was a general manager from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the head of the agency, no, he wasn't. We agree, it has to be so. He answered. We saw this: We saw clearly and clearly there that there was a huge difference of nuance between our friends from the bureaucracy and representatives of the government who were involved in the discussions there that day, and they thought very differently. Another thing saddens us: During the ten-year period of the AKP government, during its rule, we saw clearly and clearly that information, skill, skill, accuracy was not important, only being deployed there with AKP's aide bureaucracy and it was filled. This is not the way or the way the state behaves, and we've seen how and how the bureaucracy is seized here once again. Dear friends, it is important to say that one of the most important articles of the law is this bag, which we call "chuval. " Now, you've been in power for ten years, and you've brought the staff you've requested to all the institutions and organizations of the state, and you've served there. The Court, on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is an institution that oversees all institutions and institutions on behalf of you and prepares the necessary reports and must inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and has made these changes to the Court again over the past year and a half, and you have made these changes to the Court, but it's passed a year and a half, and now you want to disable the Court by making a change in the Court. So, what we're thinking about here is clearly and clearly: yes, corruption and suspicion are going on in all institutions and organizations. You've been in power for nearly 2,000 municipalities, local governments, for over ten years, and corruption and suspicion in local governments. Now, despite this ten-year staffing, there's still honest, honest, government-thinking bureaucracy in the Court, and they're doing their duty, but you don't want these reports to be kept and shared with the public, by now making a change in the Law of the Court to eliminate them, by shutting down the government's bureaucracy, and you don't want these reports to be kept -- to be kept, to be kept -- to be kept, to be kept. This is wrong. There's a saying, it'll turn, it'll turn, and one day it'll turn. Friends. Therefore, instead of dismantling the Court, the Court's staff should be strengthened, knowledgeable, talented, and competent, but this law you have brought in is not the law, but you wish to disable the Court with a sack of law. It's unacceptable. Therefore, I salute you all, saying that we will vote against these fifty-nine-point sacks of law.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0096par0800	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Now, Feramuz Üstün, member of the Silver House.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0097par0803	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge in the first chapter of the Law Proposal to change the amendments to some Law and Law Orders in 302 rows. I hereby salute your high council. Part 2 of the proposal changes the 15th amendment to the Basic provisions of Elections 298 and the Voters' Law. This clause regulates election bans. According to this, the day before voting day is 18 o'clock. On the day of the vote, after 00, and on the day of the vote, those who promote the election will be sentenced to three months to a year in prison, if they promise to break the order of the election or to prevent voting from being carried out in freedom. It transforms this sentence into a criminal fine from 100 days to 200 days. Article 10 of Article 2918 changes Article 41 of the Traffic Law. According to some types of driver's licenses, it is conditioned to complete at least eight years of uninterrupted education. Among these types of drivers are F, G and H driver's licenses. Class F tractors, G-class business machines, and Class H also authorise the use of vehicles for patients or cripples. There is also an exception clause for those who finish primary school before 18/8/1997. The 12th article changes Article 3294 in Article 2 of the Law on Social Aid and Solidarity. Article 2 of the Law stipulates that those who are not subject to any social security agency and who do not receive any monthly from these areas will be included in the fund. With this clause of the proposal, there is exception to this rule, and the income per household is covered by those less than one-third of the minimum wage, those less than 233 TL, those who are damaged by disasters and those who are related to martyrs and veterans. Article 13 of Article 3294 refers to the new article. Under the new clause added, aid and supports under Law 3294 and the aid of old age and disability which are bound to people under Law 2022 are made to be irreparable, not foreclosed, not foreclosed, not foreclosed. A amendment is being made to the Law on Criminal Records No. 5352 and public institutions are authorized to conduct interrogations in the criminal record and archive records in conditions where legislation is required to be registered and archived. In the current case, judicial questioning can be conducted directly by judges and prosecutors and by law enforcement with the approval of the Ministry of Justice. It is also possible for real people to be able to question their criminal record and archive records using secure identification tools and give the records to their subject in physical or digital environment. ▪ The user name and password created with the e-state system is at the head of the tools defined as safe identification tools. In this system, individuals can see their public relations, such as insurance situations, salary and debt to the state. The 21st Amendment is made to Article 17 of Law 5352. In accordance with the existing legislation, the fee taken from individuals in the event of the demand of criminal records and archive records... is expected to be waived from this fee taken from them. I wish our nation the good fortune of this law proposal, which aims to address and meet the problems of the practice, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0098par0812	Thank you, Your Honor. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, we have friends entering the system, so we're going to do a QA. In turn, I promise. Mr. Light... no. Mr. Oğan... no. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0099par0819	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 57 of the bag law, interest is imposed according to Article 51, which they will receive according to Article 51. Why does the state make such an arrangement in its favor and in its favour, not in the provisions of the Law on Disruption? Isn't that contrary to the principle of equality in terms of the balance of debt and debt? Question number two: Article 47 of the Bags Act, the application of the Law of Debts is postponed for eight years. What is important is why this Law, which is in favour of those who are in financial difficulty, should be implemented, and why is it postponed? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0100par0823	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0101par0825	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, an illegitimate government, a government that doesn't know how to govern. We've had offers. It's a government that's all a burden on the state budget, it's bringing in the spending power, it's bringing in the staff, it's a weak government. They don't come in front of us and bring them in as government bills, lawmakers bring them in. I want to know what kind of face a government like this has to come and sit here, one. I visited Silivri Prison last week. Soner Yalçın, a prisoner of Odatv, and his friends have been in prison for 18 months. A year ago, ten months ago, they told TÜBITAK: "The CDs are fake, the documents are added here." These have been sent to TÜBITAK for a year, and they are still not being tested for information, and they are not being sent away. Let this government come first and answer to the House here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why is TÜBITAK giving instructions, but this expert has extended his investigation for more than a year, and these people are lying in prison unfairly?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0102par0830	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0103par0832	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, an amnesty is being passed regarding the 23rd article of the law proposal, concerning the capital gas, the city's capital gas, and the capital gas, which the city's capital city, which is also co-organised by the Metropolitan Municipality. What's the amount of the city's share here? How much advantage does the city get? Is there any way you could give me the numbers on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0104par0835	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0105par0837	Mr. President, Malatya Yaşhan is a village in Malatya, Malatya Province, Turkey. The population of the district is 15,568. The lack of a bank branch in Yaşhan district causes major problems. Residents, village chiefs, people who receive help and support, elderly people who receive pensions have to go to Malatya to do the bank transactions of our elderly and disabled citizens who are on a monthly basis according to 2022. In writing, 543 employees are employed in public institutions and institutions and officials must take leave before the end of their shift to Malatya to carry out bank transactions. There is a $24m cash flow to banks of institutions in Yazhan district, and the bank branch to be opened will be able to work without harm given the bank transactions of citizens. A branch of Ziraat Bank in Yazhan district...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0104par0839	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0106par0840	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister about the regulation in Article 11 of the law we're discussing. Mr. Secretary, you're making a change in Article 45 of the Higher Education Law with the 11th article, and you're bringing in the condition that the major mid-education achievement rating for students who took the university exam this year is valid. However, you're not disparaging this disparity about other students who are still in school, who prefer high schools to be successful, who think that weighted middle education points will benefit them. So, there was an arrangement in vocational high schools regarding the additional points for students who had previously studied in vocational upper secondary schools in Law 6287, but no regulation has been made concerning children in science high school, Anadolu high schools and straight high schools, or students who are currently in school.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0107par0844	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0108par0845	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you, as a government, the application of the 4+4+4 Law has begun to teach Arabic at primary schools, and the public's huge response to this start has arisen. While this reaction has arisen, we see in front of us the training-sen, the executives of KESK, being brought in under the TK app. Minister, will you silence all democratic organisations in Turkey? What is this pressure you're putting on Educ-Sen, the largest teacher organization today? This 4+4 app makes all schools imam orator, and the public responds to it. Are you trying to silence Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0109par0849	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0110par0851	Mr. President, Turkey is a country that has produced 2 times 4 million tons of crude oil in the history of national oil production. Although the number of drilling seems to have increased in recent years, we can't go above 2 million tons of crude oil production today. Why? For the last ten years, coal has been less and less used in electricity. Is there a strategy for this national resource to increase electricity production using new technologies? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0111par0854	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0112par0856	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I asked at the Commission, but I didn't get an answer, so I'm asking you again. According to Article 180 of the Law on Basic Decisions of Elections 298, how many cases are currently being held, and who are the defendants of these cases? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0113par0859	Thank you. Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0114par0861	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question with your intervention. How many commissions are there about this bill and how many members are there? Isn't the government at least offended by the fact that these members of the AKP have not seen these proposals? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0115par0864	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Yes, I thank our friends. Of course, law proposals can be seen openly by the commissioners, not only by commissioners, but by all lawmakers, as part of the general implementations of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. So before we get to the commission phase of these law proposals, whether your fellow citizens are commissioners or commissioners, so if they follow closely the procedures of the other Turkish National Assembly, I think our lawmakers will be able to take a closer look at all their proposals, including our commissioners. The commissions are already negotiating legislation and proposals in detail during commission talks. Let me start with the last question.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0116par0868	That's where the offer comes from, where we're negotiating, you don't even know yourself! Dear friends, I answer in writing about some numbers, but the law proposals: Turkish Parliament, our parliamentary friends, can offer laws at all times, and these law proposals can be combined in commissions and can be merged into a broader law proposal. So that's the law. How it's combined, and it's extensive! Read Article 35 of the Civil Charter. He can't make a new offer.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0117par0871	Can I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0116par0872	It's always wrong. Your presidency can't run the House properly, and the Civil Code doesn't follow...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0118par0873	Don't shout! Don't shout!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0116par0874	...and here you are, supporting the government. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI ARE made up of offers made by our fellow members of the community. The MPs'... This isn't right! Why are you sitting there? Article 35 of the Civil Code states that the Commission cannot offer the law. The law of 20 articles is up to 59 articles! Why don't you stop this while you're sleeping?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0119par0877	It's how it's been applied so far.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0116par0878	Not today, sir. You destroy this state, you destroy this state. You can't run the House.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0119par0879	If your shouting is in accordance with the Civil Code, please continue to shout and shout. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0116par0880	But you can't do it with a request! You're ruining the law, you're not making a proper law!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0119par0881	You ask questions, Mr. Secretary speaking, sit down, listen, when the time comes, take your leave, speak, say what you say. This is not according to the law; it is not in accordance with the Law, O young man, forgive me.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0116par0882	You are disobeying the Civil Code, and according to the Civil Code, which you do not observe, it is not possible for us to work here.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0119par0883	Okay, go ahead and talk.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0120par0884	Minister, you go ahead, we're listening.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0116par0885	Speak, but obey the Civil Code!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0119par0886	He's keeping up.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0116par0887	It doesn't!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0119par0888	He's responding, and you, please, must listen. Then take my word for it, please... please... CAMER TEENAGE (Tunceli) - Read Article 35 of the Civil Charter. You've asked questions according to the Civil Code, and we're answering questions that you've asked the Civil Code here, and it's not exactly the kind of approach that accuses us of disobeying the Interior Charter when we're in line with the Interior Charter.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0121par0891	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Secretary? You don't fit the Civil Code. We're sleeping, we're responding, we're responding in accordance with the Civil Code. What about those who do not comply with the other Civil Law?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0122par0894	Yelling and calling is not in accordance with the Civil Code. Sir, Mr. President says that we conduct legislative activities in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0121par0896	I mean, you say that like it's nothing.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0123par0897	Mr. Günal... Dear friends, if you want to answer your questions, let me try to answer these questions properly. The first demand for Odatv was a very narrow request. This demand has become a very comprehensive demand with the new demands of both the court and the defendants' attorneys, and it is a matter of very specific questions being asked in the last court, with new requests from TÜBITAK, to be thoroughly examined and to be given clear answers that are desired, because they are very specific questions. The fact that these expert experts reports have been examined and subject to a clear examination by TÜBITAK, and that the scope of these cases has been greatly expanded, is not the right approach to expect a very serious, detailed answer to the questions asked by TÜBITAK.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0124par0900	Are these documents forged or not? That doesn't require a long study. We have no right to say, "Don't answer these things, don't answer them, don't answer them, don't answer them, don't give them instructions. Come on, answer them as soon as possible, allelelus, whatever." No one should be expected of an answer that will justify what is rightfully done, which will cause anyone to be wronged. In this last court, an additional period of time has been requested. And in a month, a month and a half, those answers will probably be delivered to the court. Therefore, these answers have been delayed by now, as they have been informed in writing, as well as the demands of lawyers and the requests of the court committee have expanded the issue by now, and they have already been given the necessary public statements. I want to remind you of that. Another issue is that raw oil production has so far not amounted to over 2 million tons. Turkey is not a growing country with rich oil sources, oil resources, and reserves. In oil searches, certain steps are emerging in specific gas searches, but Turkey is a country that diversifies energy sources, especially accelerating its investment in energy production of coal reserves. In addition, there are some substances in this bill that will seriously increase the production of energy, even in areas related to linity. Liniyet sources and coal sources are an area in which Turkey quickly uses energy production. We have no way of knowing the nature of the last KESK administration, the nature of the investigation. For what reason are these people being investigated, for what reason are they being detained, for what reason have they been asked to be arrested, arrested or not arrested, these are the works of the court. Why should the government try to silence people? Everyone writes what they want and talks. Thus, in Turkey, we feel that we clearly do not deserve such an accusation regarding a case that we do not know the framework of the investigation, that we do not know the framework of the trial, that we do not need to know. However, similar discussions were already made in the regulations on national education, so there were debates as to what 4+4 will bring to the country and what it will not bring to the country. Of course, some suggestions, evaluations will be made in the process, and we will see them together. A recent decision on not being taken into consideration in university grading examinations, on student placement exams, is by the Higher Education Board, but in this law, because students took the test this year and carried such thoughts into the examination, the law provides an exception to that issue this year and not to be applied in the following years. Thus, in this new system, the subject goes directly to a point in which students' individual achievements will stand out. That way, we'd better give our friends some information. What will the regulation of this law bring to the capital gas? We can make a statement about this: the capital gas distribution is currently under the privatisation and programme of the 80 per cent share of the capital's gas distribution. While all these shares are owned by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, it is covered by the Privatisation Supreme Council decision and privatisation of the programme. 19 per cent of the remaining 20 per cent of the stake is owned by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and the Metropolitan Municipality's municipal economy. Both the 80 per cent share and the 20 per cent share are not paid in the programme. The interest is being paid on the debt to the Metropolitan Municipality and the EGO (EGO) of the Capital Gas Dispersion, Inc., and no debt is being paid off. This arrangement does not bring that approach.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0125par0907	Mr. Secretary, we're out of time. Yes, that's the answer to your questions. Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are three motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I submit an additional two hundred euros per day after the statement they paid in the first article of Article 3 of Article 3 under the first amendment proposal of the 302 rows. We propose and propose that the statement of Article 1 of the 302 law proposed by Article 3 shall be changed to.6 months. Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tünzel Pervin Buldan Now I'm going to read the final motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bart's MP, Yilmaz Tunisian and 6 MPs, who have been in contact with 302 rows, have been asked to make amendments to some Laws; The Orders of the People's Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; The Proposal of Law on National Education Ministry's Organization and Jobs; The Proposal of Law on the Law on the Law, Balık MP Namık Havutça; The Proposal of Non-Aditable Teachers to Free Kadro and State Officers's Law on National Education and Some Laws' Law; The Proposal of 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments to the Law and 2th Amendment to the Law and 2th Amendments of the Constitutional Committee and 2th Amendment of the Minister of the Ministership and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments of the Ministership and 2th Amendments. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Enver Erdem Mehmet Erdoğan Ali Öz The Article No. 6245, dated 1-10/02/1954, added the following Article. Article 3-31/05/2006 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 510 of Article 4 (c) 1 of the First Amendment (c) shall be taken into account by the insurance providers themselves and according to the Law referred to, as well as by those they are obliged to look after, as well as those who have been sent abroad for treatment in accordance with the procedure of treatment, as well as those who have been sent abroad to be paid by their guardians, on condition that they should be paid by the social security agency on the basis of Article 66 of Act 5510, and that they should be paid for each day's service, on the basis of treatment. This sentence has been sent to treatment abroad in accordance with the regulations taken in accordance with Article 5510 prior to the implementation of the Act, and its treatments are carried out on the same day that the treatments are carried out. Those who enter into the second joke must be applied to their rights institutions within three months of the date of the period before this clause is in effect. The housing costs under this clause are covered by the institution concerned with the person being treated. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are jointly determined by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security." Does the commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0126par0938	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0125par0939	Government? We don't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0127par0941	Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0125par0942	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0128par0943	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made on Article 1 of Proposition 302, which is being discussed. I salute the grand jury. Our argument is that there is no need for the Ministry of Health to determine the procedures for the implementation of this clause; it is intended that things be a little easier for the procedure. There are a few things I'd like to express here: Mr. Secretary, you know what my earlier question actually means, as an experienced former member of the group. How is he going to find out if something -- energy issues, etcetera -- didn't come to his commissions -- even if it was relevant to the MP -- was discussed in the relevant commission when he took it off the agenda? There are so many unrelated, unrelated issues. I'm also amazed how Mr. Recai Berber did it. So, that's what all the problems come to, and that makes an offer? Now, that's a really sad subject. It's become an AKP classic. When we come to the end of the term, it really saddens us to have a law-making process, and it saddens the citizens who follow us. Now, when we talk to you, you claim that Turkey is very well managed, very well managed, everything is very good. It's like Alice is in Wonderland, but here we come, there's a problem with everything. Now, when you took this... I just specifically asked how many MPs, how many commissions? Let's know about this, let's know about this. If these are Turkey's most important problems, he has to leave before the holidays, or there's going to be a real mess in Turkey, that you have a problem like this... what do you have to do to the citizen in some way? I have to tell you. You're trying to make me feel like this, but that means Turkey's business isn't going well. Look, last semester, an offer came into the commission with 40 articles, and then it came out as 250. What's happening this time? You're subtracting 40 as 60. But what do the bags do? You come in one after the other, you turn it into a section without looking like the last one. It's really, really uncomfortable. Going down a road like this means hiding the country's problems from you, but there's nothing to hide about the country's problems. I don't know who just delivered the red plate to Mr. Berber. The court in the southern accident of Denizli is closed, and the court in the Honaz accident of Denizli is closed. These people are going to put money in their pocket, so be sure... how will the man in the south get to Buldan? The car doesn't enter, leaves it three or four kilometers down; how will 50, 60, 70 - year - olds go? How do you, as commissioners here, as lawmakers, make such a request for a red plate in the eyes of the citizen? It's a really sad thing to do, because we're a red-plate guy, okay? Do you have a clear conscience about this, Mr. Secretary? The commissioner's friends aren't necessarily comfortable either, but some of the lawmakers, they're probably pushing whoever they want. Seriously, come on, let's settle this courthouse thing or something. Why are you doing this? So most of the issues in front of you are not the first priority of citizens. Where will the citizens go, the courthouse, the other side? The old man, he can't go, he doesn't get the chance. I'm saying it's important to think this through, and I'm paying all of you respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0129par0957	Mr. Ayhan, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We propose and propose that the statement of Article 1 of the 302 law proposed by Article 3 shall be changed to.6 months. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0130par0964	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0129par0965	Your Majesty? We don't agree. Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0131par0968	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, once again, as the House closes, we see what the government's priorities are. Its priorities, of course, are not the problems of our country that are looking for democracy, peace and resolution, but once again, we are faced with a law proposal that the government, especially in the state bureaucracy, will open all public areas to privatisation and, of course, encourage and concessions to capital groups, and, above all, lead to corruption that has been used to the spirit of the law. First of all, what we're looking for is a change of materials, treatment services abroad, and a support arrangement for the companion here. But this genius is a confession of the collapse of the health system, and it's determined to make amends. In fact, it is our wish that the health system be affordable, accessible, quality for all citizens, and that no one should be forced to receive treatment abroad. Yes, this bag indicates what education means for the government, especially because it brings regulations for education in many areas. In that sense, opening up, commercializing and seeing it as a profit and a Rant area... Now, there's an arrangement for loans and dorms. The student housing problem was thought of as a direct incentive for the private sector to invest more in building dorms once again. We're talking about 1.5 million students who need shelter. There's only one capacity for 230 grand of this. Well, then I have to ask, what does TOKI do for rich people who build luxury housing, and why doesn't he build dorms for these students in the Ministry of Loans and Homes? Once again, it extends its lease time from five to twelve years, offering this area to the private sector as a Rant area. Another issue, in the same way, is the TUBITAK issue. In fact, the Ministry of Industry and Technology, headed by the Minister, was introduced in front of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, where the word "science" was once presented directly to the service of the capital class, the interests of the people, beyond the interests of the country. Now the steps in this direction continue, with which science is once again presented to the service of trade, industry, capital, in terms of the establishment of special-quality companies. There is a reason why some of the inventions produced by TÜBİTAK could be considered commercially in the market. This area has already been removed from science, become a very political area. And now here the government has the opportunity to intervene in its own way. Of course, another remarkable arrangement is the matter of the OSS. Bringing exemption to a number of companies that the CSI will set up in exam work is an exception from the Public Contraction Act. Now, imagine, on one hand, the Public Contraction Act, which is the most questionable on the other, is a test field that is most vulnerable to corruption and investigation, in the same way, has been presented to private. The teacher deficit... the number of teachers waiting for 40,000 appointments is now limited to 30,000. Actually, it's not surprising. Because the job seekers in this area are considered to be a lying young population, and we know that dozens of teachers have lost their lives because they haven't been appointed, and they're out in the open. Troubles are mountains, but instead of training, what is this government looking at? The concept of security is not enough; the police population is not enough; the police population is more than 200,000 more than 30,000 -- so the unionist who calls the streets more "democracras" and says "peace," wants to be silenced, the intellectual, the worker, a new police staff. There are a lot of problems. Inequality, discrimination once again appear in these laws, but even if they are arrested, even if they are taken into custody, the workers, workers, unionists of this country will resist. So, today, they've been under questioning for two days. Why did you strike? The question is, why did you choose the strike? I say that the unionists who face the question will also respond to these laws.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0132par0977	Thank you, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0133par0980	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0132par0981	You want roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Light, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Öner, Mr. Serker. Now, I'm starting the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I submit an additional two hundred euros per day after the statement they paid in the first article of Article 3 of Article 3 under the first amendment proposal of the 302 rows. Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0134par0999	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0132par1000	Government? We don't agree. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0135par1003	Mr. Kamer Young.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0132par1004	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0136par1006	Mr. President, let those standing men sit down.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0132par1007	All right, guys, let's cut the humming a little bit, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0136par1009	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the basis of my motion in Article 1 of this bag of law proposal is that a person who cannot be treated in Turkey is being appointed to escort him abroad. There's no limit to the amount of accommodation for the escort. So we'll be able to pay the chaperone a thousand dollars a day, and we'll be able to pay $5,000? I'm saying in my motion that if we don't get through 200 euros a day, the stay is paid. So tomorrow, if we don't bring a limitation, by billing the most luxurious hotels... so I've put a daily limitation on our government by sending this patient abroad, and also by sending him to treat the person who's sick, and at the same time, for the amount of time that they'll be paid to stay in treatment. I think it's a very reasonable motion, but AKP people don't accept the truth. They accept whatever harms them in this land. Now, the person sitting here during the government is responding to what I just said about Odatv. Look, Soner Yalçın and his friends in Odatv have been inside for 18 months, and they've been added to the CDs found at their workplaces. In addition to this, they studied at Middle East Technical University, companies in the United States, forged, documents forged. And then they said, "Let's send it to TÜBITAK." This document went here in a year and a month, my friends. He will see whether the document on TV is false or not. The minister says here: 'Sir, there isn't.' Friends, look, people have something called conscience. I mean, if people are under arrest, if you give them to him for a day, that's what you're trying to do, but your goal is to deprive this Turkey of its completely unhappy people, the people who are not yours, their rights, their freedoms. The other day when we were driving there, the cops were telling us that either this AKP promised us that it would fix our economic situation. We don't want much. When we retire, let us take four percent of one. They should give us the rights they give to the petty officers, but they trick us, they buy us, and then they don't do anything to us. Dear MPs, look, Turkey wants to put the Grand National Assembly on vacation, of course, because there's no longer a chance for the members of this government to come to Parliament, nor do the AKP people to sit in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey because they've destroyed the dignity of the Republic of Turkey everywhere, they've discredited our nation everywhere, they've discredited our state. Hani Tayyip Erdogan was coming out, and the knife was up to the bone in Syria. Well, now, we've got two pilots missing, and our plane's been shot down. Assad says: "Come if you have the strength." Look, you've been such a bully. Come on, brave. I've landed your plane, and I've dropped it wrongly. Look, I told you about a peach. So you can't remove the core of the peach you swallowed, it destroys and destroys some of your organs. For him, this nation should resign at once, including Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Abdullah Gul, and this government, who have made it so disreputable internationally, because this state should not be disproportionate in the international sphere, nor will people with a conscience or morality accept it, neither fear of religion nor fear of God, but the minds who mock the nation will accept it. Ya, before you, the Republic of Turkey was a prestigious state in the world. What did you do? You've discredited this state. Everywhere, the men in charge of you are leaving, delivering Americans. Whatever he's paying you for this couriership, we'll give you more than that. It's a shame about this state. It's a shame about these people. What's the point of making these people so disreputable, so disreputable? Then if people have dignity and honor, they should know to resign when necessary. People without dignity and honor never think about resigning. It is not possible for you to direct Turkey in this situation anymore. It's up to you to leave here as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0137par1015	Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0138par1016	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0137par1017	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0138par1018	Mr. Speaker, you have disgraced us in the international arena that we have destroyed the reputation of the Republic of Turkey without being completely debased outside the limits of decency when we give the speech. In the form of our president of our group, Mr. Group, I would like to make a promise of this bullying.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0139par1019	That's right, there's no teasing! No hard feelings, Mr. President, they discredited me.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0140par1021	Come in for two minutes, without a pick-me-up, please.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, it has to be very clear that people who don't have a reputation here are very wrong to talk, to speak, to be extremely lacking, to be highly opposed. (AC PARTY) First, let them think of their own dignity, see their state of mind very clearly. Dear friends, the Republic of Turkey's reputation before the AK PARTI governments is extremely high to the extent that it does not compare to today's reputation. Before, we were not able to create the world's agenda, let alone create the world's agenda, to have a say in the world's agenda, to even have our own agenda here. We didn't have that reputation. Unfortunately, even Turkey's reputation has been determined from the outside, but right now Turkey is correcting the world's reputation, and I'm very clear. Turkey is setting the world's agenda, and Turkey is taking all the necessary steps regarding this agenda.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0142par1027	What happened? What happened? What did you do?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1028	You know what he does? For the first time, a Turk became Secretary General of the Organisation for the Islamic Conference.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0142par1029	What happened? What the hell happened?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0143par1030	Ahmet, it's getting old. Say something new.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1031	During the EC PARTY, for the first time, the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe became a Turk.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0142par1032	What happened? Where's the general with the sack?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1033	For the first time in 151 countries, this country has become a temporary member of the Security Council.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0142par1034	Where's the commander with the sack? You tell me that.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0144par1035	Ahmet, look, you've told me this ten times, say something new, it's new.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1036	It was a country that was running all over the world, and now we're at it again.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0144par1037	Tell me about the plane.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0145par1038	What did you do when they crashed the plane?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1039	We've become a country that's taking over the victim, the underdog.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0145par1040	Nine of our citizens are dead, tell me what you've done.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1041	We've come to a country that helps from an outside country. Look, we're a country that's helping the IMF with $5 billion. Put your hand on your conscience, speak reasonablely.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0145par1044	Where did you help him? Where did you help him?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1045	Before the AK PARTY, didn't we say, let alone, we can't pay the officer's salary for five billion dollars, 500 million dollars?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0145par1046	You sold the country to the Dubai for $1 billion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1047	At the gates of the IMF, we were doing 40 flips of Turkey's reputation...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0145par1049	You were selling the country!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1050	Now, Turkey is in a position to help the IMF.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0146par1052	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0147par1053	Mr. President, I respectfully respect Mr. Hatibin's objection to the government of the Republic of Turkey's government's abuse of Turkey and its response in its nature, but I return the previous governments to him and to him!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0141par1054	I'm telling you where Turkey is coming from.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0147par1056	And here you are today... look at that! So you kept your reputation in the sack!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0148par1057	When was the sack passed, sack?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0149par1058	Mr. Vural, thank you. Mr. Young, come in. Please let's hear it...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1061	Mr. President, the speaker said that the person who gave this speech is disreputable. It is not possible for the person who is disreputable to speak here. If you'll excuse me, sir, I would like a word from the taunt.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0149par1062	Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please, before you start picking on me again.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish I was disreputable and this government had dignity! If there is such a thing... no, no. Because the state of the Republic of Turkey is my state, and I'm proud to say that the bodies of this state are big, but if those who govern this state, who hold the power of this state, are making this state disreputable on an international level, it's my duty to confront them with their dishonorable conduct. Now, did the Americans put a sack over our army or not? Did the Israelis kill or not nine of our citizens?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0151par1068	Ask him where one minute is.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1069	I thought O Tayyip was being brave. Now, why did you send the plane to Syria? He's gone, he's been there, who sent him there five minutes later? Is he honorable or disreputable who doesn't do it after he's been dropped?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0152par1070	It's done.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1071	Now, look, it says here that we paid IMF. He's lying. Friends, the IMF has announced that if we get stuck tomorrow, will governments give us money to the IMF? And Turkey says, "I'll give you $5 billion." And Italy says, "I'll give you $31 billion."
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0153par1072	The IMF wants money, here.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0152par1073	That's the reputation.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1074	So find out, no more money, no more money, and don't go out and fool people in front of people.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0153par1075	This is the country that's about to pay the IMF.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1076	In my opinion, if it's a honorable, honorable government, he has no argument from today, he must resign immediately, because this government has no personality or knowledge to rule this nation anymore.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0154par1078	Is this gonna learn dignity and honor from you people?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1079	Yeah, you know, empty rows, empty, empty... where are these empty rows?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0155par1081	Over here, over here!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1082	Look, with the laws you bring in every day, you transfer the government's resources to your allies, and you've removed control, and nothing's being audited. The tenders, the corruption, the state's been robbed, which face you're still talking to, I'm amazed at him.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0155par1085	We're talking to whatever face you're talking to.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0156par1086	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0150par1087	So, please, find out, and then talk. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0156par1090	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0157par1093	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0156par1094	Very good, sir. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Editoglu, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Öner, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Gürkan, Mr. Yılmaz. Sir, we're going to do an electronic check-up now. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0158par1100	The call wasn't enough, sir. The meeting was asked to be enough.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0159par1101	Mr. President, is there any mistake?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0160par1102	There's enough for a meeting, isn't there?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0158par1103	You've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0161par1104	The number of meetings... correcting, sir, excuse me.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0162par1105	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0161par1106	We're not telling you without it, Mr. Special. Please calm down, relax.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0163par1107	You go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0164par1108	That's what you said when you said it.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0161par1114	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are four motions on the 2nd article, which I read in order: We propose and propose that the 2nd amendment of the proposed law, 302 rows, shall be changed to,3 months, 6 months. Hasip Kaplan Levent corporate Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of the 302 Law Proposal, Article 2 and Article 23 added to Article 7269, the "executive rights of which have been handed over to them from those who have not actually used their businesses in the past two years; although they have borrowed them," the declaration is "to be changed into individual debtorship or non-existent rights. Mustafa Elitas Ali İhsan Yavuz Fikri Il Ilyas Sugar A. Sibel Gönul Osman Çakır Fevai Arslan Zeki Aygün Mehmet Ali Okur Ayşenur Islam Hasan Ali Çelik Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the proposed law. It's a temporary 23. After the phrase "filene is not used" in paragraph one of the clauses, we would like to add the expression "if necessary." Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bart's MP, Yilmaz Tunisian and 6 MPs, who have been in contact with 302 rows, have been asked to make amendments to some Laws; The Order of the Public Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; The Order of the Ministry of National Education on the Organization and Jobs; the Proposal of the Law on the Law on the Law, Balık MP Namık Havutçça; The Proposal of Non-Aditable Teachers to Free Kadro and State Officers's Law on National Education and some of the Laws' Law on the Orders; The Proposal of 2th Amendments and 2nd Amendments to the Law and 2th Amendment to the Law on the Law and 2th Amendment of the Law and 2th Amendment of the Ministership of Ministership and 2th Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendment. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdoğan Enver Erdem Ali Öz "In this case 2-15/5/59, the following temporary clause has been added to the Law with measures to be taken under the State of Public Life, number 7269. The rights of those who have been entitled to severe damage due to earthquakes from August 23 - 17, 1999 and November 12, 1999 to those who have not used their workplaces in the past two years, who have been given up their rights on their own terms, will be reduced by the executive board's decision within three months of the time this clause entered into force. You don't get compensation from those who are denied the rights. Payment paid by the rightful owners until the day the rights are reduced is paid back to the rightful owner, along with legal interest by the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management. The workplaces of those whose rights have been reduced are assessed under Article 31 of this Law." Does the commission agree with the final motion, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0165par1152	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0161par1153	Government? We don't agree. Mr. Vural, who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0166par1156	Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0161par1157	Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0167par1159	Dear President, I'm going to discuss the motion that we've made as the National Movement Party on the 2nd Article of Bag Number 302 law. However, before that, we had a conversation with the Minister, and I'd like to make it clear to him that, unfortunately, we now receive the news of the martyrs every day, almost every day, in one place, two places, three others, and today we have four more casualties. I ask for God's mercy, and I strongly advise the government to take some of Turkey's affairs and take precautions. Respected Minister, when we spoke a moment ago, we said, of course, that we support every positive new thing that comes out. However, it is also important that the work we do, the steps we take, the positive contributions you make to the relatives of the martyrs, the veterans, and the pensioners. That would hurt our people, Mr. Secretary. Therefore, you will not make pensioners in need of the Poor Poor Fund, and if anyone needs it, you will give it to them in a more appropriate way. You won't let our veterans and martyrs use the Poor Poor Fund, our martyrs deserve much more than that. How do you bring our martyrs, our veterans, their relatives, and connect them here to the Poor Fugitive Fund, and in its name, you call it a positive step? So, of course, we have to give them the best of everything we can. We're talking here, they're out there giving their lives, and you can't bring him in here and make his name look like he's in need of the Poor Poor Fund. What you're going to do about disasters -- we know -- is not meant to take the presence of humans, but to increase them. If people deserve something, you have to give in to the rights of the people who are entitled to it, and if you can, you have to put in additions. But with the 2nd article you bring, you try to seize it because it has not paid two or three with one opportunity for the people's rights that have been earned and earned. Just now, Mr. Deputy Group Chairman of the EC PARTY has spoken of Turkey's reputation. For God's sake, Turkey's reputation has never been so humiliated. We're looking at the Syrian issue as a national issue, we're not doing domestic political material, but you put your hand on your conscience, you've turned Turkey into a patsy in the region. It's not a pleasant term, but I'm afraid you put it that way. You're staying here and you're talking about dignity. What reputation? Is it the reputation that Assad destroyed, or the account that Israel put in front of Turkey, who brutally slaughtered nine of our citizens? Why haven't you asked about this account yet? It's been over two years. Now do you realize what you've done to us in front of the world? We called NATO to help, the European Union, the UN. Turkey should not have been put in this position in the first place. You brought Turkey, you put it in this position. You have to pay for this. Where you're going to come here and answer for this, you're going to throw mud at the previous authorities, and you're talking about dignity. Of course, disaster insurance is where our citizens will be paid more... for example, shooting our people's fields every day in Iğdur. There's a serious problem with apricot production this year. You have come to our citizens who have received insurance from TARSIM, and you do not give them their due; and you try to cut the insurance that our citizen has in his hand. We've been asking the Ministry of Agriculture for a week for an appointment with the Undersecretary, you're not making an appointment, and the people of Iğdır are seeing this. I complain to the Iğdır people again. We can't deliver our citizen's problem to the Ministry, and we can assure you that he will answer for it in the next election, just as Iğdır saw the people in the last election. In the same way, we have many citizens who have suffered natural disasters. Instead of raising their rights by new laws, by sacks of laws, you reduce them. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0168par1169	Mr. Oğan, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0169par1172	Mr. President, we want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0168par1173	Roll call... Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yeşeybaş, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Çam, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Erdemir. We'll do a roll call with the device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the proposed law. It's a temporary 23. After the phrase "filene is not used" in paragraph one of the clauses, we would like to add the expression "if necessary." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0170par1191	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0168par1192	Government? We don't agree. Who will speak, Republican People's Party?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0171par1195	Mr. Haluk Eyiborn will speak.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0168par1196	Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0172par1198	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hereby declare that we have a patched bundle, a patched-up law. This law, which I have stated in this article, is the Law of Public Life, issue 7269, 1959. Unfortunately, since the day it was put into effect, it has been subjected to constant additives, removes and exchanges of substances, and many changes have been made in 1960, 1968, 1985, 1992, 1995, 1999, 2000, 2001. Generally, after major earthquakes, this Law has been seen to be lacking in this patched-up law. A total of 53 articles, 28 articles have been changed, modified, seven articles placed in multiples, 11 supplements, 17 interim substances added, and changes have been made. Today, the 2nd article, the 23rd article of Law 7269, is tried to replace it with Article 2, and is tried to add another patch to the patch. So, what's this gonna fix? In fact, the views that this Law, which has been said over the years, should be changed have never been taken seriously. This government has not changed Law 7269 for the last ten years, even though the National Earthquake Council reports have reported it on the earthquake scale. While he was standing in a patched bundle, he went, and in 2009, he passed an Afet and Emergency President's Act. It's a broken law. Now, it's said in this article that those who haven't been able to use their workplaces in the last two years and who have given up their rights are being mentioned. I mean, why do these people not want to use these businesses, why do they have to give up? You have to understand that. Will altering this as rights owners after the 99 earthquake improve the events that may be ahead, that we may encounter, that we may face after the disasters? No. What's wrong? Anyway, the reason, the law, the workplaces are out of town, not suitable for the need. So we've got a status check. Well, isn't that also true of the Van earthquake? Now, after the Van earthquake, you're building a city 10 kilometers away, and you're building businesses. The day after tomorrow, you will make an addition to this patched bundle of 7269, and you will say, "You will place 24 on the temporary article 23," and you will place a clause on the rights of the houses, which was built after the earthquake and may not be used. Now, we pointed out this mistake in time, and we said, "Look, after a major earthquake, you're doing heavy damage, you're building new dwellings for mid-damaged buildings, you're building businesses, you're sending the current social structure, you're sending the commercial structure, you're sending the cultural structure elsewhere. You cause social and cultural disintegrations, and then there's a lot of social problems, economic problems, as you can see, about these workplaces. Look, there's got to be a new law. We say, "Come, let us rewrote the AFAD Law with the AFAD Law, which does not answer this need, which is patched up to 7269. Let's rewrite Act 7269, which has caused conflict with each other, which has caused confusion in authority, and by the AFAD Act 5902, we will free this country of pre-causal and disaster. But I don't see that in you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0173par1205	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0174par1208	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0173par1209	Now, there's a call request, and we're going to roll call again. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Ören, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sarıabaş, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Pine, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Erdemir. Now, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. We propose and propose that the 2nd amendment of the proposed law, 302 rows, shall be changed to,3 months, 6 months. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0175par1226	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0173par1227	Government? We don't agree. Who's gonna talk? Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0176par1231	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yes, we're dealing with important debates in this proposed law. A few moments ago, our AKP MP friend from the government's front opened a debate on reputations. Of course, the question of where to look for his reputation is also extremely relevant to this law. More people who look at the world in the eyes of money, capital class, seek to see if their relationship with the IMF is being dealt with by the World Bank or by Obama. But that's not all the human society is. Humanity is also questioning its reputation elsewhere, especially in Turkey's respectability, especially in Turkey's respect for arrested MPs, arrested unionists, human rights advocates, journalists, writers, children. Just the other day, the people who were burned in the prison in Urbana, the people who were tortured and beaten by dozens of police in the street, the babies who died of starvation, the workers who died in over 10,000 jobs in ten years. I mean, there are so many things that can evaluate our dishonorability with their unsolved political murders, or rather, this government's public statement, in terms of ways that it should account for. Now, one of the things that we're going to look at from the point of view of this law proposal is, again, here's the death of two journalists that we immediately think of under the rubble, even though it's been so long since the Van earthquake. While all this has not been accounted for, there is an arrangement for the disaster, dear lawmakers. Four years of college graduation, five years of work experience, experience is being eliminated for the president in charge of disaster work, an arrangement that ignores an experienced, grown-up person, especially in an important subject such as disaster. Likewise, in our country, there have been nearly 12 million disabled, all the screams, the week of the disabled, they've expressed their demands once again in the past few weeks. The public's duty to them, the community's duty, the state's duty has not been fulfilled. Here, in July, for a period of time, the public authorities have given him one more year since they have not made the arrangements they need to make. What happens in a year? What kind of commission does he have when he doesn't? There's no payback for all this. In the same way, the duties of the Court, which is obliged to conduct and oversee administration bodies on behalf of parliament and budget spending, are being resolved, the executive body is being made into a notary, and restrictions on how the State will or will not file a report are being made entirely to an institution the government wants, recordings are being made, very clearly, in contrary to the mandate of the Constitution's article 160, which has just been expressed. Likewise, as I said in the beginning, how does the government view the field of education? He looks at the training field from the frontline of the needs of capital. Another arrangement, brought here, says the private sector in vocational upper secondary schools in organised industrial areas, is supported by the Treasury per student, in a way that encourages industry. This is how the relationship between education and production is strengthened. THAT was the way he supported the industry, the merchant, the capital; and now, by taking over trade schools in organised industrial areas, the environment is being prepared for cheap and young labour exploitation here, but while this is being done, it is the same way for working parents to shut down education schools that their children read and take out of need. So, once again, this law proposal has shown the government very well which eye, which front the AKP government is looking at the world, and where it's looking for dignity. Looking for dignity, labourers, young bodies today facing unemployment and poverty, looking for that reputation in the responsibility of our starving children, looking for those gaps, seeking to meet the demands of disabled citizens, in the reality of the fact that people who want peace today should be put in prison.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1239	Thank you, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0178par1242	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1243	You want roll call, over. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Cloud, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Sun, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Akar. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of the 302 Law Proposal in Article 2 and Article 23 added to Article 7269, "from those who have been entitled to the right and have not used their jobs in practice in the past two years; although they have borrowed them," the statement is "submitted to individual debt or non-existent rights. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0179par1260	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1261	Government? INTERVIEWING, WE AGREE. I'm reading the reason: After the August 17, 1999 and November 12, 1999 earthquakes, it is possible that the rights holders of the rights to pay compensation if the rights of the rights of the rights are not paid three times in a row by the holders of debt or if the rights are waived by the holders of the rights, if the rights of the county board and the rights are reduced by the state board's decision, should the rights be paid back with the interest of the amount paid until the date of reduction. Only those who possess the right and who have not used their jobs in the past two years will benefit from it. The motion has allowed more people to benefit from the right. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0180par1267	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1268	Article 2 of...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0180par1269	Mr. President, according to Article 60, I have a brief request, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1270	If you'll excuse me, I'll finish the vote, because I'm here for the last moment.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0180par1271	Then we want roll call, then we want word.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1272	No, I voted.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0181par1273	The roll call was requested, the item was not voted.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0182par1274	I'm voting for you. You said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1275	You want a roll call on the matter vote, do you, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0183par1276	Mr. President, before we roll call, I'd like to make a statement on a matter.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1277	Now, here's what happened, Mr. Hamzacebi: once I submitted the motion to the votes, it was accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0183par1278	Okay.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1279	Now, you want a roll call before the clause vote, do you want a promise?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0183par1280	I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0177par1281	You want a promise. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0183par1283	Thank you, Mr. President. On 17 August 1999 and 12 November 1999, this article makes arrangements for some of the consequences of the earthquake that caused severe losses in many of our provinces. Our relevant friends in the matter have made a motion to express our views. But I would like to point out that after the earthquake on 17 August 1999 and 12 November 1999, the government of that period passed a law on 28 December 2001, sir, and by that law allowed the release of the tax debts of our citizens who were damaged by that earthquake, in all or in part, tax debts were abandoned. We had an earthquake in Van, although the earthquake had been on 23 October 2011 since then, especially when our taxpayers lost their assets in Ercish, there were no arrangements for the release of their tax and insurance premium debt, no plans. On the contrary, there has been an extension of the extension of taxes and bonus debts, while our taxpayers at Van and Ercish have been granted an extension to pay taxes and bonus debts. So the citizen has lost his existence, is in no condition to pay his taxes, he is unable to pay his premium debt, and he has been given time to pay his tax and bonus debt. What needs to be done is to enforce the law of abandonment. It seems that there is no law in the government's agenda to abandon any tax debt for our merchant in Ercish. I'd like to rephrase that from here.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0184par1286	Thank you. Your words have been contained. Article 2 of... III-Y O K L A M A
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0185par1290	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit01spe0184par1291	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Kören, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Special, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Köse, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Bulk, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Bayraktutan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] With the amendment to Article 2 I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... shall be accepted by Article 2. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 302 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 3 of the same nature. I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the third time you've proposed the law. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Recep from Ayşe Nur Bahçapılı Special Ilyas Candy H. Bayram Türkoğlu Fevai Arslan Mehmet Ali Okur Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Enver Erdem Mehmet Erdoğan Emin Haluk Ayhan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0186par0025	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0184par0026	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0187par0027	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0184par0028	Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0188par0030	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, as you all know, 146 courts have been closed in Turkey. The closure of court offices in 44 districts was cancelled and reopened by a decision later made. Malatya is an unlucky province, Malatya is an unclaimed city. Why have Malatya's production institutions been shut down one by one? And as if that wasn't enough, now he's staring at our courthouses. Dear friends, the counties of Malatya are 13. Earlier, the courts of Doğanyol, Kale, Battalgazi were closed, and now the courts of Arguvan, Yashan, Kuluncak and Yeşilyurt are closed, so there are no more courts in the seven provinces of our 13 counties. The AKP had a slogan before the election: "Think big, Yashan." He said, "Think big, Arguvan." These districts thought big, now they're being tricked to close the courts. Dear friends, 44 courts have reopened on appeals. This decision revealed how wrong the High Council of Justice and Judges and Prosecutors made the decision that was made by the Supreme Council, without being investigated. So there are no districts of Malatya, between the new verdict and 44 courts to be reopened, and the courts to be opened. Why? Malatya is unclaimed? Are these decisions out of seriousness? Are the decisions political? Why? See, the Arguvan Courthouse is being closed, but the prison in Arguvan is increasing its capacity. Is there any logic in that, dear friends? They say: "The workload, the number of files is small." With that logic, then shut down the police department in Arguvan, and shut down the gendarme. By this logic, appoint a doctor. With that logic, dear friends, there is no funeral. Send imams to another district.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0189par0035	The graveyards...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0188par0036	Get rid of the graveyards, too. Again, there is no congregation. You, God knows, will close mosques in the future. And by that logic, remove the trustees from their duties. With that logic, knock the lock on the government's door. By that logic, valuable lawmakers do not distribute justice. Take the Minister of Justice out of office and close the Ministry of Justice. Dear friends, I'd like to compare the districts that have been decided to reopen to my own counties: Look, the population of Sulakyurt is 7,927, Kuluncakak. I ask you to listen carefully, 8.951; Sulakyurt's distance to the centre is 46 km, Kuluncak is 113 km. The population of Kemah is 6,942, and the population of Arguvan. The population of Imran is 8.010; the population of Imran is 7.568; the population of Yazhan is 15,568.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0190par0039	Kemaliye's?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0188par0040	I'll say it. Why are these counties closed? The government's politics. Why have the closed counties reopened? These counties have been reopened because discrimination, the region, the province and various divisions are involved. Now, I'm going to give you an example of how segregating this decision is, folks. The districts of Erzincan have been closed, and the districts of Kemaliye, Kemah and Çayeli have been re-opened. Why? Has the population of these counties increased or has the number of files increased? Dear friends, someone has suppressed Mr. Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım, three districts of Erzincan have been re-opened. What does he say? So he says: "O Malatians, you have voted 69 percent in the last election, and if you give 75 per cent, we will take your bread from you." Dear friends, with these decisions, not only the courts are closed, but with these decisions, with the closure of the courts, the economy is destroyed, the people there are facing the age of starvation. The closure of the courts, the trade, the most important of all, will ensure that the county is completely destroyed. Why? Because the courts will be shut down, allowing people in those counties to migrate to big cities, big places. Look, this order changes, this process spins. Please reconsider this decision. The Arguvanites, the Kuluncans, the scribes, the Greenlands, are crying blood. I'm asking you to reconsider this decision. It's just... look, today, a delegation from Malatya came in, with friends from the AK PARTY, friends from CHP. They're expressing how wrong this decision is. If you don't do it, one day someone will say to you, "Go away, my son! Go away!" And they will send you away, my friends. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0191par0049	I'm reading the reasons for the other motions...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0192par0050	Mr. President, why don't he just give it to the friend and get the hell out of here?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0188par0051	This is a statement from the Arguvans, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0191par0052	Mr. Erol, take him.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0193par0053	This is an insult, Mr. President, an insult to the House.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0194par0054	Let him apologize there, let him apologize.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0195par0055	Let him have it back, Mr. President. That's not a move for a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0056	What's it say? Go away, my son! That's not true, don't do that, you guys! Come on, it's not true! It's not true. I mean, it doesn't suit me. It doesn't suit me. Yes, I'm reading the reasons: Ayşe Nur is from Bahçkapılı and his friends are the reason for the motion: The article is removed from the text, since there is no need for a numerical change in the Transport Law on behalf of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The reason for Mustafa Kalaycı and his friends' motion is: The AKP government has recently paid high tax increases to public employees and pensioners on the grounds of increasing domestic savings to the lowest level in the history of the Republic. In the middle of this situation, it is not appropriate for the TBMM to be given 10 more cars with red plates. Congressmans, I submit the motion on Article 3 to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0197par0065	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0066	All in favor...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0197par0067	I've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0068	I voted, sir, next time. Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0197par0070	Mr. President, I've asked for a sufficient number of decisions before you vote, sir, please...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0071	I mean, I didn't see it.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0197par0072	Sir, I did. Ask the Clerk Members.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0073	Your motion is voted and voted positive, and you still want it?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0197par0074	Yes, of course I do, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0075	Yes, sir. Sir, since there's been a disagreement between the clerk members, we're voting with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motions have been accepted. According to these proposals, Article 3 has been removed from the proposal text. During the writing of the law, this clause will be removed and other matter numbers will be identified. We will continue through the existing clauses in the Commission report, which is being discussed in order not to cause any confusion. There are two motions on Article 4 of the proposal, which I will carry out with me. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th amendment to the current bill of 302 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Enver Erdem Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan The same motions, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0198par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0099	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0199par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0101	You don't agree. Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0200par0103	Mr. Bulent Tezcan.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0196par0104	Mr. Bulent Tezcan, please come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0201par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the 4th amendment of the law proposal we're discussing -- because it's the law, we collect from various laws, we make changes -- proposes a change in the Law on the Basic Decisions of Elections 298 and the Voter Logs. The change is basically proposed that the period of investigation into previous crimes during the election period was subject to a two-year period, and if the investigation has not been launched within two years, the prosecution cannot be prosecuted again. With this change, it is reduced to six months. Basically, if you look at it, six months down is a positive step, but the way the law is brought in is interesting. A change from this Plan and Budget Commission, which should be discussed fully with the Justice Commission, has passed through the Plan and Budget Commission. He came from the wrong place once in this frame, and I want to share it. Dear friends, there is another important matter. Look, we all have to agree that the election on election crimes should be free propaganda and that the voter's will can be easily formed, but we've been going through so many interesting things in our country lately that only yesterday, our President of the People's Republican People's Party, Barkan Kalonom, has had to testify in the DA's office. Look, the thing he has to testify to is that on May 27th, we're holding a city convention in Aydin. There's a poster at the county convention for running for mayor. In the poster, next to the picture of Deniz Gezmiş, our candidate put up his own picture and put up a poster. At the Republican People's Party congress, he wrote: "Wake up, while you were in deep sleep under the ground." He's right, he's right. What do you mean, dear friends, that's why they're called to testify about it, they're being investigated, and they're saying, "What do you mean, we're sold?" Isn't it obvious? Didn't you sell everything this country has earned in 90 years of republic history? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, we are sold. Look, this is just about Sevda Hill. Didn't the minister of this government come out and say we got $10 billion that wasn't even registered? Didn't he say we got $10 billion? Didn't he confess that he had given 10 billion dollars to the Arab king to make Sevda Hill his successor? Have you been able to account for the whereabouts of this unregistered money? Dear friends, here at the Constitutional referendum, in the September 12th referendum, Mr. Prime Minister played a role to get the vote, reading the letters of the revolutionaries who went to death row with false tears. Wasn't the Prime Minister praising the crime and the criminal when he read them? Dear friends, the Seawalkers were not criminals in this country. If you remember him who praises the guilty, if you remember him who praises the guilty and the guilty, go to Mr. Bkent Arinc, who praises Mr. Atef the Skelipite, and ask him about it. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Dear friends, AKP ruling Turkey has come to the point where it can even intervene in the congress of those who oppose it. You created such a security system. Now I say, Sea Travel was the expression of independence in this land, of patriotism and of the brotherhood of the peoples, and I bow before him with respect, and I kiss my mayor, Barkan Kalonom, who praises Deniz Gezmiş, and I give him my love. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0202par0119	Mr. President, the speaker has just said that he has sold the EC PARTY Group's values to the Republic of Turkey, placing the EC PARTY Group in favour of the AK PARTY ruling. I'd like to answer that question.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0203par0121	Please, Mr. Lawmakers, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0202par0125	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. It's customary to express things here that have nothing to do with the law and the motion that we're talking about. There's an election of a county organization in Aydın. There's a convention. The candidates, of course, must have entered the race within themselves, under the Party Charter under the Law of Political Parties. In that race, along with the picture of Deniz Gezmis, your friend, the Republican People's Party candidate, is probably expressing it to the delegates there, saying: "O delegates, some of them are selling some. Don't sell me out of the Republican People's Party. It's not fair to put his testimony on the AK PARTY's authority. (EC PARTY) If there is an interrogation there, if there is an account for it, the judgment has called for it, and the judgment will certainly make its evaluations. When we get to the part about what was said about the Sea Gezmiş, it's also a big mistake to put the coup attempt on the AK PARTI Authority today, when the three young men who represented the EC PARTI power on the matter of being tried and executed in the course of the 12th of September 2010, against our arrangements to account to all the coupgers in the Constitutional Amendment on September 12, 2010. In 1919, it was a mistake to put the same sentence on the Sea Travelers, as it was in 1926, when they were wrongfully tried and executed in a judgmental court for a alleged article written in the 1920s. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0204par0132	Mr. President, the Deputy President of the Group has sold each other in the People's Party's Aydın Province Congress in particular. The delegates have expressed it directly, where I stand, where I am a member and where I am in Congress, I want an answer.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0202par0133	Mr. President, I didn't pick on him. I've testified that you've been misleading the testimony that was said here.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0204par0134	It's a very clear statement that we sold each other out. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0205par0135	Yes, there is, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0202par0136	It's on the record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0206par0137	Mr. President sold it. He said it, sold it, sold it...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0207par0138	I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0208par0139	Now, please respond in one minute before you dare to...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0207par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Elitaş knows at Republican People's Party congress that Republican People's Party will not sell each other.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0209par0143	Everybody knows, everybody knows!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0207par0144	Turkey also knows very well how the AKP has sold Turkey's existence, leaving nothing at all, as an inheritance for sale. Dear friends, Mr. Hatip has mentioned coupters, the AKP has already shown that there is a continuation of the coup process by not removing special authorities. As long as state security courts are re-entered by the coup of September 12th, so does the AKP. You have nothing to say to anyone about the coup. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0148	Thank you. [[Continue]] Are we going to make him read the other motion, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0211par0155	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0156	I'm having it read. The article reduces the two-year period for prosecution to six months from the date of the election's end, with a public trial stemming from election crimes. Therefore, the period of litigation is shortened for those who commit election crimes. Signs made in the public office can be answered for years later. It is also intended that those who commit election crimes should not be changed in the matter of accountability within two years.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0212par0163	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0164	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Serter, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Pine, Mr. Sun, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Gürkan, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Bay Bayuttutan, Mr. Öğütün. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: T. B. M. M. To his presidency. It's the 5th amendment in the current bill of 302 rows. In the article, we would like to change the expression until a year or so. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Haydar Akar Rahmi Küreli of Love Aydın Agha Ayadın Haluk Eyidoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa Berber and MP Yilmaz junç and 6 MPs of Bart's Law offering to make changes in some Laws; Advention of the Public Party Group Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; Proposal of Law on National Education Ministry's Organization and Missions; Proposal of Law on Law on Law, Balıkesir MP Namık Havutçian; Proposal of Non-Authorities to Free Cadro and State Officers' Law on National Education Departments and Some Laws of Laws, Proposal of Law on Laws and Orders of Education, 2th Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Laws and 2nd Amendments of Laws of Ministership and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministership and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministership and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of the Law. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Enver Erdem Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan "The 5-16/8/61 statement of Article 7 (c) of Article 351 of Higher Education Credit and Homes Law (s) was changed to "up to five years" in the form of "to ten years." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0213par0190	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0191	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0214par0192	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0193	Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0215par0194	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0195	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to limit the time period to ten years in rental and leasing of the Higher Education Loan and Housing Institution.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0216par0200	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0201	Request roll call, sir. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kuğoglu, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Çam, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Gürkan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Bay Bay Bayuttutan. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. M. To his presidency. It's the 5th amendment in the current bill of 302 rows. In the matter, we would like to have the expression changed until 10 to 15 years. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commissioner?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0217par0218	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0219	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0218par0220	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0219par0221	Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0210par0222	Mr. Aslanoglu, İstanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0220par0225	Mr. President, I'd like to thank you for agreeing to this motion. Why? New universities have been established in all the provinces of Turkey. As new universities were established, the need for dorms failed to follow as fast as the establishment of universities. Therefore, it sometimes takes three or four years to build new buildings, especially in the provinces of Anatolia, because the winter season is long. So... these kids are all our kids. Under the best conditions of these children, in the most modern way, they stay in the homes of the state... and their families entrust them to the state. In this regard, it is inevitable that these children will remain in modern, modern - day homes under the roof of the Credit and Housing Institution. From this point on, we're proposing that if the new building isn't built, and because of the lack of funding, there's a significant number of housing problems in all the provinces. For example, in some of our provinces, we have 30,000, 35,000 college students, but the institution of loans and dorms has a capacity of 3,000, 2,000. In our provinces, especially abroad, house rents are very heavy. In this respect, we've offered you, in this motion, a long-term lease to provide for our children's housing needs. You agree with our motion. On behalf of the children, on behalf of our young people, under the roof of the Credit House, in the name of the people and children of a social state, I thank you, all of you, if you vote well.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0221par0229	I submit the motion to your votes: those who agree... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0222par0230	Those who didn't agree... you didn't say.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0221par0231	All inadmissible, motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the Fifth Amendment: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Menisa MP Recai Berber and Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunç and 6 MPs who have been in contact with the 302 rankings, Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, MP of the Republican People's Party Group, and Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, Minister of the Republican People's Party Group, have to change the Law on the Organization and Jobs of the Ministry of National Education; Minister of Law, Balıkesir MP Namık Havutça (Ancient Teachers to Make Changes in Some Laws for Some Laws, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of the Minister's Minister of Public Education Law, 2nd Amendment, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments to the Minister of Public Education Laws, 2nd Amendments, 2nd Amendment and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz "The first joke (d) of Article 2 of Article 2 (e) and (e) of Article 2 of Article 2 (d) on the establishment of the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Foundation, dated 6-17/7/1963, added the following joke to the article as follows. "d) To prepare the environments and management methods needed to ensure that the technologies developed in institutions, institutes and units, which operate research and development activities within the institution, are used in production and in the needed areas, or to make it easier to use them, and to turn these technologies into commercial values that will contribute to the country's economy, to test and social development, to support companies for this purpose," he said. "e) To promote and implement incentives and support systems that will enable public and private sectors to participate effectively in technological research, development and innovation activities; to support and funds that operate in order to commercialise developments potential in early stages; to promote and support initiatives in these areas; to provide support for the public and private sector's research, development and innovation activities; to ensure that the outputs will be converted to commercial value; to develop programmes that will allow industry to co-operate with university and research institutions and institutions and to co-operate with them, and to ensure that their cooperation in these areas can become concrete; to support entrepreneurial rights; to support the public and testing; to provide support the public sector of this institution; to provide and to ensure that its objectives, and to ensure that its accession, and to provide and to ensure that its resources, and to ensure that its resources, for a basis, and to ensure, and to provide and to ensure that its assistance, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure that its assistance, for the basis and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, for the basis and to ensure, and to ensure, for the purposes, for the purposes, for the purposes, to be established, to be established, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, for the purposes, for the purposes, to be established, to be established, and to provide, and to provide, and to ensure, and to provide, and to provide, and to provide, and to provide, and to ensure, and to provide, and to ensure, and to provide, and to provide, and to ensure, to ensure, to provide, and to provide, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to provide, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, and to provide, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, "In order to fulfill the duties of the institution, the incubation centre, the technology centre, the technology center, the technology transfer offices, the project development and information transfer centers, the science centre, the science park and so forth, building and supporting and supporting and supporting foreign liaison offices, building support programmes, building cooperation networks and clustering activities, organizing project markets, science fairs, competition and so on, providing support, awards, scholarships and incentives, providing grants and support by the Science Council, without guarantees and/or loans, and providing capital support and providing support for all the above-level tasks." Now that the two motions we're going to read are the same, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th amendment of the current bill, 302 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Fair Wolf Idris Bauken Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0223par0260	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0221par0261	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0224par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0221par0263	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0225par0264	Hursit Sun...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0221par0265	Mr Hursit Sun, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0226par0267	Mr. President, I've reviewed some amendments to the TBITAK Act in Article 6 of the bag law. I'm a scientist myself, retired from college, gave up nearly 30 years in college. Now, there are two basics to change: One of these: you know, TÜBITAK gives various financial supports to support research and development, and a number of patent rights are being created. Now, he wants to turn some of these patent rights advantages into business. That's the spirit of fundamental change in the law. On the other hand, he wants to allow a number of companies to be formed in this direction. So TÜBITAK will form or form companies to provide financial income for products or inventions that are directly patented. Now, we scientists have a side, dear friends, we deal in science, but we don't trade. Science and commerce are two separate things. It wouldn't be right if you tried to put these two together. I mean, you know, there's a saying in Kayseri, and there's no work in the boy, and there's no merchant, so we said, "Let him be a professor." So these two are separate jobs. If you try to confuse these two, science will cease to be science, and commerce will attempt to become science, and it will fail. There's something wrong with the spirit here. Besides, there's been another mistake in editing it. It's sketchy, it can be partnered, it says, but it's not specified: what will be the form of the partnership, how long will it be, what rules will it be? They were never expressed, they were released, they could do as they pleased. At one point, he'll get permission from the minister. Now, see, that's one of the things we don't understand: TUBITAK is a scientific institution and will fund, support, fund research development in our country. True, beautiful, but there is a lack of TUBITAK: TÜBITAK used to be a prime minister's institution, and it was not connected, it was an institution of interest. Then, this organization, the establishment of this government, was connected to the Ministry of Industry along with a new organization on the eve of the last government's establishment, where it became the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, where it became a relevant institution, but it didn't change: TİBİTAK was not an autonomous institution, and that's the key. THE Prime Minister appoints the head of TÜBITAK, and the Science Council of TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) is a member-rini, and the Prime Minister, originally and practically, again. So TUBA recommends, TOBB recommends -- TUBA again, the Prime Minister determines TUBA, and so do the others -- recommends the SEC, recommends twice as many numbers, and the Prime Minister throws out what he thinks is appropriate. Thus, a TÜBITAK appointed by the prime minister will do what the minister sees fit. This is obviously the slaughter of science in Turkey. Science is politicalized, it's something that shouldn't happen, and it has to be fixed. Now, there's another thing that caught my attention. This government was very proud of TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK), saying that we have increased the resources of the RAGE (RGE). When they went to international institutions, they were presenting in London, in New York, in New York. Since 2007, RD spending has dropped the budget of TÜBITAK (TBITAK). At fixed prices, I looked at it, and I was surprised that it fell down at a certain number of prices. So if the government were to reintegrate the resources of TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) instead of becoming a company, it would have done something even more right. I looked, there's a rise in employees, but when we look at the distribution of universities, we're really low on resources. Unfortunately, there has been no satisfactory increase in application for international refunds, payment-less, patent support for over 3,000 liras in recent years. Now, I'd like to wish that the concerned minister would be here and say, "We're never going to be corporate, we're not going commercial. Trade is the business of the private sector, and public business is simply to support science, research. We'll never mix these two together. There's a mistake here, and we're going to fix it. If he could, unfortunately, he's not among us. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0227par0279	Thank you, Mr. Sun. On the second motion of the same nature, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0228par0282	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I find that I have made a promise on the 6th amendment to the 302th amendment, and I salute you all, We're up against another bag of laws that identify with the AK PARTY government. They try to mislead the public by making positive changes, but they try to be passed through a large number of negative Parliaments at the same time. The goal of making this bag law is to bring the public into the control of the market a little bit more, as in many other laws before, by ignoring the interests of the public, to harmonise the economy with the interests of the capital holders. In this law proposal, however, there are positive provisions for the violations of teachers and police staffs, the ability to get driver's licenses for those who finish primary school, the access to a free criminal record before going to court, and how can you avoid contract laws, audits, and judiciary? How can audit reports and judicial decisions be neutralized? With this offer, TÜBITAK and ÖSYM are given the authority to start a company, some ministries and institutions create new units and employ staffs. The government, on the one hand, is intermittently privatizing public companies and assets, while also trying to build new companies. The bill envisions the establishment of private-quality companies to commercialise information and inventions from TÜBITAK's research and development activities, as well as the establishment of an interface to commercialise the trade value of information and inventions. A institution founded to perform scientific activities such as TÜBITAK and expected to perform public service should be seriously questioned. With this offer, a scientific institution such as TÜBITAK will be transformed into a company. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, were set up for a seven-year period in 2005, in accordance with Act 5378, and in accordance with the public access of all public institutions and institutions, the disabled. A law proposal offered to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the end of this period is scheduled to extend for another year. If we allow this proposal to be legalized, the disabled who are 12 per cent of the population of Turkey will be confined to school, theatre, hospital, cinema, shopping, library, mosque, parks, courthouses, sports facilities, museums, museums, without access, and will be confined to their homes for another year. In seven years, not much distance has been gained from the accessibility of disabled persons. I leave it to you valued lawmakers to see what the government can do in a year when it sleeps for seven years doing nothing. An arrangement with a temporary clause cannot resolve the problem, especially with municipalities, without tasks and responsibilities being determined, without the necessary funds being earmarked. There must be a plan of action on this matter immediately. The Public Contraction Act is once again replaced by a bag of legislation, while the number of vice presidents at the Public Contraction Agency has been increased from 3 to 4. This is an important contradiction. As law changes to the institution's field of duty provide a continuous limitation, a reduction, while the institution's top jurisdiction is expanded. It is also a question mark as to why a change in the position of Vice President is being made on the charge of overburdening the workload. As a matter of fact, the excess of the workload is possible with the increase of staff or experts working at the institution rather than the increase of the vice president. I hereby salute you all again, saying that the two articles in question are conflicted and inconsistencies within themselves.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0229par0289	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Members of the law, I submit to you two motions on Article 6 of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Menisa MP Recai Berber and Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunç and 6 MPs who have been in contact with the 302 rankings, Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, MP of the Republican People's Party Group, and Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, Minister of the Republican People's Party Group, have to change the Law on the Organization and Jobs of the Ministry of National Education; Minister of Law, Balıkesir MP Namık Havutça (Ancient Teachers to Make Change in Some Laws for Some Laws, 2nd Amendments, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments, 2nd Amendments of the Minister of the Minister's Office of Public Education and 2nd Amendment, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of the Minister of the Ministership and 2nd Minister of Public Education Law, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendment, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "The first joke (d) of Article 2 of Article 2 (e) and (e) of Article 2 of Article 2 (d) on the establishment of the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Foundation, dated 6-17/7/1963, added the following joke to the article as follows. "d) To prepare the environments and management methods needed to make the use of technologies developed in institutions, institutions, in production and in areas needed for research and development activities within the institution, and to ensure that these technologies become commercial values that will contribute to the country's economy, test and social development, to support companies for this purpose," he said. "e) To promote and implement incentives and support systems that will enable public and private sectors to participate effectively in technological research, development and innovation activities; to support and funds that operate in order to commercialise developments potential in early stages; to promote and support initiatives in these areas; to provide support for the public and private sector's research, development and innovation activities; to ensure that the outputs will be converted to commercial value; to develop programmes that will allow industry to co-operate with university and research institutions and institutions and to co-operate with them, and to ensure that their cooperation in these areas can become concrete; to support entrepreneurial rights; to support the public and testing; to provide support the public sector of this institution; to provide and to ensure that its objectives, and to ensure that its accession, and to provide and to ensure that its resources, and to ensure that its resources, for a basis, and to ensure, and to provide and to ensure that its assistance, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure that its assistance, for the basis and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, for the basis and to ensure, and to ensure, for the purposes, for the purposes, for the purposes, to be established, to be established, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, for the purposes, for the purposes, to be established, to be established, and to provide, and to provide, and to ensure, and to provide, and to provide, and to provide, and to provide, and to ensure, and to provide, and to ensure, and to provide, and to provide, and to ensure, to ensure, to provide, and to provide, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to provide, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, and to provide, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, and to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, "In order to fulfill the duties of the institution, the incubation centre, the technology centre, the technology center, the technology transfer offices, the project development and information transfer centers, the science centre, the science park and so forth, building and supporting and supporting and supporting foreign liaison offices, building support programmes, building cooperation networks and clustering activities, organizing project markets, science fairs, competition and so on, providing support, awards, scholarships and incentives, providing grants and support by the Science Council, without guarantees and/or loans, and providing capital support and providing support for all the above-level tasks." Mr. Commissioner, do you agree with the final motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0230par0300	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0229par0301	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0231par0302	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0229par0303	Mr. Günal, have them come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0232par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, when I was talking about chapter one, I criticized the establishment of TUBITAK and SNSYM. And here is the Institute of Scientific and Technical Research in Turkey -- which is the founder of our party -- and the founder of our party is the deceased Alparslan Turkesh. Indeed, as the National Movement Party, we consider it a duty to contribute to the strengthening of this institution, to supporting work in technology, science, and to supporting the development of DGE. These issues are clearly included in our party schedule and election statements. We also support the President's activities. That's what our motion was intended for. Instead of starting a company, we think it should be followed by a way of supporting companies that are doing these things, turning them into products, transforming them into commercial values, dear friends. In support of both entrepreneurial and co-operation with the university-industrial, my dear friends, Mr. Secretary, because -- we've seen where we've been -- Mr. Elvan knows he's done a master's degree in Delaware -- in our chemistry school, there was a lab for a very large world giant, whether he called university-industrial cooperation or did something -- and he's already got the biggest chemistry labs that come out of there, but he's already got the ARGE, and he's already got the models. We understand the President's excitement, maybe if I start a company, I'll turn it into a product. He says. But he doesn't realize that Turkey is facing a huge problem because he hasn't warmed up his politics yet. He is also unaware of ten-year-old AKP-run staffing and the appointment of the board of directors. As a valuable scientist, he'll face the pressure of ministers, politicians, let's make this company a control board, let's make it a board. Our president will deal with it. So we say, if you look carefully at the content of this proposal, let it function here. We have no objection to the purpose, so let him do all the incubation centers, the tech center, the technology transfer offices, to carry out those tasks, but let him do it by encouraging it, by determining the incentives, but we don't think it's right for a scientific and technical research institution to deal with the financial dimension of the job. So here, of course, as I just said, we know that there's a very important institution in terms of science and technology policy, and we understand that it's being activated. As an MHP, we already support the mobilization of technology production, but this is the preferred way of doing it wrong. I don't think it's the right approach to thinking that this could be supported by building a company, because it's where universities become information centers and technology centers, and we have other places, you know, technokents, technology regions, free zones, a lot of things. He needs to do some work that will co-ordinate them and help with the co-ordinating of scientific research, which will help with new research, which will help with the production slowly. And for that, I think we should set up independently, consciously, without political influence tomorrow... The person who gives the money, you know, is involved in everything, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President. When the finance comes when you give the money, when the board is appointed, it says: "I'm sorry, I'm going to appoint this from the institution. You know, I'm as independent as you want, I'm not. The general board will come, and you'll have to assign it to the board of directors whether you want to or not. These are the problems we have in all institutions. I don't think it's right that this nest of science and technology, the nest that it should be, is involved in economic and political business. Once again, if you read the motion carefully, we don't object to any of the goals, we don't object to them, we support them to make it happen, but we think that we should do this with support, with incentives, in the model of the Technology Development Foundation, as in other models, with support, and we expect you to support our proposal to ensure that TÜBİTAK is active.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0233par0313	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0234par0316	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0233par0317	Hamzacebi, Öner, Aslanoğlu, Erdemir, Young, Türeli, Yüksel, Öğüt, Öğüt, Çam, Acar, Sesam, Aydın, Kaplan, Özkes, Özkoç, Sun, Demiröz, Öz, Onur, Bayatutan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bart's MP, Yilmaz Tunça and 6 MPs, who have been in contact with 302 rows, have been asked to make amendments to some Laws; The Order of Humanity Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; The Proposal of Law on National Education Ministry's Agency and Jobs; the Proposal of Law on Law on Law, Balık MP Namık Havutçça; The Proposal of Non-Aditable Teachers to Free Kadros and State Department's Law on National Education Laws and Some Articles About Laws; The Proposal of Law and 2th Amendments of Ministership and 2nd Amendments of Ministerships and 2nd Amendments of Ministership and 2nd Amendments of Ministership and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministership and 2nd Amendments of Ministership and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministers and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendment Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz "The first joke (d) of Article 7-278 of Law 7-78 (d) bendine (d) has been identified as the subdivision number 11 (13) of the existing subbelief (d) to be added to the subdivision (d) to come after the submarinal no.10). "11) Decided on the institution's purpose and its duties, incubation and technology centers, project development and information hubs, technology transfer offices, museum, science park, science center, the establishment of foreign communications offices, management and support programmes in these matters." "Twelve) to transfer all the ideas and testing rights obtained within the institution at a price or price, to be granted a license or to support the production and sale of such products for this purpose." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 7th law proposal of the current 302 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0235par0348	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0233par0349	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0236par0350	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0233par0351	Who's gonna talk? Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0237par0354	Mr. President, you have made your intention with the Constitution of Act 651, dated August 27, 2011, to secure political control of TÜBITAK and TUBA for the Prime Minister's consent. The head of two leading Turkish scientific institutions, you have passed a bag of legislation that determines the organisation and duties of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Where is science and technology, animalism, I don't know, have you figured out the difference between these two? Three months passed, and this time you destroyed the scientific and institutional autonomy of the ÜBA (TUBA) with a decree in which the Ministry of Family and Social Policy determines the agency and its duties. While Cem Yilmaz constantly criticises the control of the spaceship in space films, is there no setting for this ship? Do it and let's go. If he were a member of parliament, he would undoubtedly give you the same criticism today: Is there no setting for these scientific institutions? Decide and we'll be on our way. Obviously you haven't been able to manipulate scientific institutions enough, and this time you're dealing with TUBITAK (TUBITAK) with another bag of legislation. It's not enough that you make the press, the red tape, the unions, the top boards, and even the building managers, that it's obviously time for scientists and scientific institutions to become allies, but know that there's no science, no technology, no door service, if you build it with people, you'll start a new organization, you'll take two steps back in science and technology. In this country, you have established such a pattern that the Silivri Prison has left the number of publications and references of many universities you have set up. You've established a system in this country where the number of arrested students in type F has left behind the student population of many of the universities you've established. Long story short, you've tampered with science, and now you're handing the wreckage over to Mr. Prime Minister, and you're saying that there's a thesis study on how women will bake dry beans; if you call astrology, who will be arrested, who will be the expert in all things, such as gynecology, and who will be the expert in the field of medicine, who will be the first to be arrested, and who will be the first to be informed of what the evidence will be discovered; let me sum up your expertise in the field of caesarean and abortion, who is the expert on family planning and birth control; if you call gastronomy, there's a thesis on how women to cook dry beans; if you say astrology, who can be arrested, who can be informed about what evidence; and let me sum up your expertise in the field of philosophy, and let you know the field of philosophy, let's not have the science of science, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, remember, science is not about loyalty, it's about integrity. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, remember, science is not about plagiarism, it's about morality. With the work of scientists appointed by the Prime Minister, only one technology, but one patent, only one useful model can be developed; it is the Lighthouse. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0238par0362	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0239par0365	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0238par0366	He's requesting roll call, sir. Mr. Firat, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Öner, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Güçün, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Öğütü, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Çam, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Acar, Mr. Gürkan, Mr. Bay Bayuttutan, Mr. Sesam. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa Berber and MP Yilmaz junç and 6 MPs of Bart's Law offering to make changes in some Laws; Advention of the Public Party Group Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; Proposal of Law on National Education Ministry's Organization and Jobs; Proposal of Law on Law on Law, Balıkesir MP Namık Havutççian; Proposal of Non-description of Non-Authorised Teachers to Non-governmental Cadro and Public Officers's Law on National Education Ministry of İstanbul; Proposal of Laws on Laws and Orders of Laws on National Education; Proposal of 2th Amendments, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Minister Namık Havutçççççççça; Proposal of Laws and 2nditions and 2nditions of Non-Communistial Affairs, 2nditional Laws and 2nd Officers and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments on Orders and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments on Laws and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments of Non and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th and 2th Amendments and 2th and 2th Amendments and 2th and 2th Amendments of Units and 2th Amendments and 2th and 2th and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th and 2th Amendments of Unal and 2th and 2th and 2th and 2th and 2th and 2th Amendments of Minister of Non. Enver Virtue and friends The first joke (d) of Article 7-278 of the Law (d) has been identified as the subdivision number 11 (13) of the existing subbelief (d) to come after the subdivision (10). "11) Decided on the institution's purpose and its duties, incubation and technology centers, project development and information hubs, technology transfer offices, museum, science park, science center, the establishment of foreign communications offices, management and support programmes in these matters." "Twelve) to transfer all the ideas and testing rights obtained within the institution at a price or price, to be granted a license or to support the production and sale of such products for this purpose." Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0240par0386	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0238par0387	The government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0241par0388	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0238par0389	Mr. Light, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0242par0391	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on the 7th Amendment of Law Proposal 302 that we are discussing. I can't count the name of the Bill of Law, Mr. Clerk read it quickly, it takes two and a half minutes. So, I'll just start by giving you the line number. First of all, we've had the same AKP classic at the end of every legislature under the roof of Turkey's Grand National Assembly for five years. Disregarding all the commissions of this House, it's become a habit of the ruling Party to squeeze many laws into the last days under the name of the bag of law. That's one of those laws. At the moment, the number of items that the proposal came to the Budget and Plan Commission was about 30, and the motions came up to 59, and I'm sure we'll have discussed something that's probably more than 60. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the proposal has assigned six eligibility commissions as commissions, but none of them have been taken, none of which have been allowed to be taken. And this is one of the important things that needs to be given the final form after a very important expertise and a very large discussion. A change is being made in the TÜBITAK Law. Again, a change was made in Article 4 of the AKP's ruling period on July 31, 2008. After that, on August 22, 2011, all the relevant clauses of the ordinance were changed, almost all the jokes of this clause, and now we're going to add an additional one back here. So I take it that the offer that has brought a significant change in the core of TÜBITAK is a major disrespect to this Parliament and the Assembly's fellowship commissions, that the Commission of Industry and Trade, Energy, of course Resources, Information and Technology has been imposed without any opinion. Dear lawmakers, about a month ago, we, the members of the Industrial Commission, went to visit. That's where it came up. I have nothing to do with the character of the esteemed president of TBITAK, but I do condemn an understanding that has spent its life in America, brought the whole philosophy of the organization in the United States, and added it to a bag of legislation. We've told him, yes, we agree that the patents in the projects supported by the company or TBITAK will be opened to corporations and professors, but I don't think anyone has any idea that TBITAK should start a company. This idea is only the opinion of Mr. TÜBITAK's president and a couple of friends with him. I'd like to say that I don't believe that people who didn't live in Turkey, who didn't know the terms of Turkey, who grew up there on the scholarship of the United States, should come here and impose such a law on this great Parliament. In the event that this law is passed, there are companies within the TÜBITAK that are going to make changes so far that your understanding of the autonomy and scientific structure of TBITAK will now lead to the politicalisation of this place once and for all. This needs to change. Our motion is a motion to propose to Mr. Secretary regarding the establishment of a company and the establishment of a company in the final part of the attachment's jokes. Minister, if you are a minister of the republic's government and have a conscience, I believe you are, you should say no. To you or to the concerned minister... the establishment of the company with someone's proposal, the sale of projects... if the minister tries to deal with it, the minister forgets his real work. The ministers must plan for the future of this country. If you bureaucrats are going to do the work, then I don't think there's any point in you sitting in that chair. This is serious business. It's definitely got to be a wrong turn. When we're even marketing energy facilities, opening the way for privatisation, when we're accelerating these studies, how do we get the Linit resources involved in the privatisation process? On the other hand, I consider a notion that the state will be in its organs, that the state will be in its organs, that it's a very, very big contradiction. Therefore, I look forward to your support and respect for this motion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0243par0403	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 8 of the same nature. I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th amendment of the current bill, 302 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Mr. Commissioner?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0244par0422	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0243par0423	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0245par0424	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0246par0425	Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesame.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0243par0426	Mehmet Ali Sesame, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0247par0428	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to remind you of something about this clause that puts the president's term of office up to four years, as well as our friends who just spoke. The president of TÜBİTAK has two years in 1963, and you change it at 31/7/2008, you give him four years, he's elected twice. Then, in 2011, you change it one more time, you reduce it from four to three years. Today you make another motion from 3 to 4 years. Now, in such a short time as the term of the president of a TÜBITAK, it's not really possible to explain it to three, four, four, three, two times. First of all, let me emphasize that we've made this motion for him, so let everyone know that. Second, it's very upsetting to have this law, this bag of legislation, in this way. We visited Mr. President for a long time as the Commission for Industry, Trade, Science, Energy, Technology for the importance we have given to TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) and discussed these issues for half a day. Instead of bringing him here and putting his opinions and opinions on this law into the law, what he had to do was to discuss it in our Commission, and it was the most fundamental lack of a change, such as Mr. Alim Light, that of a very important change in meeting science with industry, with demands from all parts of society and industry, to be brought up with a law clause, which he had not done, as Mr. Alim Light had just said. But there's also something else. Dear friends, in the 6th article, we always agree that science will be transformed into a commercial meta, that the scientist will be able to use the product he found to benefit the country, except for his own abilities, to evaluate the investor's discovery with the joint company and bring it into the country's economy. This is what needs to be done; those discoveries should not remain in the dusty shelves of TÜBITAK, or of the scientist, but should be part of the country's economy as a value, but it has to be autonomous as an institution such as TBITAK. His resources are free, many are free; the use of such money must and must be made by a control mechanism and an autonomous organization. The position that TÜBITAK is now returning to has been lifted from the scientific autonomy and administrative autonomy of the prime minister and minister, and has reached a point where the political preferences of political power will be reflected in commercial areas. There's such a danger in this law, and there's such a harm. If you do what is best, what is best, what is right, what is wrong, and what will be done with the wrong people is not right. The purpose we participate in has serious problems due to such use. Our president of TÜBİTAK, as Mr. Sun put it, is a scholar of Kayseri; he is born in Kayseri, he reads, but he is also determined not to be a scholar, but also to be a merchant because he has that quality in his CVs. I'm also looking at these qualities, and if he can pull it off, it's nice if he can do it both as a scientist and a merchant, but when you're under it, it's not your business capital, it's the resources and the values of this country. So, you have to think about it very well, weigh it very well. Dear friends, I'd like to tell you that it is our duty to use the resources of the country properly and to use them properly. As lawmakers who came to this parliament, elected, sworn in, we have to think so. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0248par0435	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. For the other motion...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0249par0437	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0248par0438	I'm reading the reason: Reason: There is no need to extend the term of the president of TÜBITAK. Since it is a person-to-person arrangement, the clause is expected to be removed from the proposal.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0249par0442	Mr. President, we want roll call. [ Applause ]
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0248par0443	Of course... Mr. Şandir, Mr. Günal, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Adan, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Ugly, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Oral, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Akar. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 9th article. I'm going to process the motions together because I'm going to promise all three of them to the same property and separate motions, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. 302 rows 9 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Fair Wolf Idris Bauken Levent Tüzel Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Haydar Akar Rahmi Küreli of Love Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Ramis Topal Haluk Eyidoğan Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Enver Erdem Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0250par0477	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0248par0478	Your Honor, do you agree with the motions? We can't participate, Mr. President. On the motion, Mr. Tan. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0251par0482	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the amendment to this clause is to raise the 15-person counseling staff within the presidency of the Religious Affairs. So, why 40? Why 40? Where will these advisors be assigned? What are they gonna do? There's no explanation for that. It's only increased from 15 to 40. So why should we say yes? So if there's no explanation, there's no point in saying yes if there's no reason. So we say, Mr. Secretary, please come out and explain, what will this 40-person counseling staff do, where will they be assigned, and for what services? It is the right of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to know. Now, this is not a new application of diabetes. And before that, you know, there were similar recruitment allocations. No information has been made regarding the allocations of this staff. This was an arrangement for people who had graduated from the 1,000 mele, historical Kurdish madrases in eastern and southeast provinces, but who had received an imam-gay school or a high Islamic institute, but who had not a degree in theology faculty, but had received religious education in private institutions, who had been qualified to be appointed. About that, I, personally, have made several questions. Why will this thousand staff be taken? When will it be taken? How do you take it? Where will he be stationed? There's been no satisfactory information about any of this. That was a test last time. In response to this question proposal, I have received a statement saying: "These personnel will be assigned in 37 provinces and will be appointed according to the application from 37 provinces? " So, who applied? What criteria did he apply for? I thought you were going to do something else. What happened? Where are you going? Again, even with the written question motion, there is no satisfactory answer. Personally, even though I've been trying so hard and asking about it, I haven't been able to get a satisfactory answer so far. So, the same situation is also related to the upgrading of these 15 consultants to 40. Again, it's not clear what the Head of Religious Affairs is doing, what the Religious Foundation is doing, so there's no control, no interrogation, no questions. And the answers to the questions you're asking are the answers that make fun of you. Now, one of them is the Islamic Encyclopedia that the Dianet Foundation created. In this encyclopedia, there are friends, readers.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0252par0485	There's one that says it, there's one that says it.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0251par0486	Wonder again, here we have Arabs, Turks, Fars, no Kurds clause. Well, why don't you? Not according to what? The same way, there's the Banarians, there's the Greek stuff, there's no Armenian stuff, there's none of that. I asked with a written question motion again, and the answer came back, here, you say, "Triit in plain water," you say, "The Inspire," like a Silver House, something else that has nothing to do with it. Dear friends, let's not say "Divine." Today, the Diyanet is Turkey's largest institution, and what needs to be done today is not to be broken-cut regulations about the religion, but to be saved from false regulations, but first from the order of the religious state and its influence. About that, you remember, I had a long talk during the budget period, and I told you all about the history of Islam, the history of Christianity and the Jewish history. It's murder for religion to take government orders because it can't, the state can't control religion according to Islamic law. And I don't mean by secularism, I mean, according to the idea of Islam, Imam Azam Abu Hanife, I forbid religion to enter into the government's command. Let's organize this first, let's take Religious Affairs out of being a constitutional institution, let's redesign it as an autonomous institution, whatever it is, or let's leave this religion entirely to civil society. Otherwise, all of these arrangements will be persecution instead of service. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0253par0489	Thank you, Mr. Tan. On the other motion, Mr. Ozkes, on the Republican People's Party motion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0254par0492	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have become part of politics in the matter of a religious abortion. In an environment where the Deputy Prime Minister was present, he made an order and made a statement. He targeted anti-choice abortions to disrupt social integrity. For ten years, he made no statement, and when the Prime Minister said every abortion was a Uludere. Let the President of Religion take off his robe, and let him do the politics. By targeting the late Prime Minister, the late Inönul, he said that he had banned the teacher, the teacher of Namaz, and the book of Mevlit. - This book was revealed only in 1944 and 1945 that both books were not compatible with Islam. Didn't the Prime Minister suffer a plague by slandering and slandering the great statesman, the late Inönul? How will the Prime Minister be lawful with the late Innu? How will the religious prime minister get out of this right?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0255par0494	Is that your problem?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0254par0495	Mr. Prime Minister, reading verses, preparing a war with Syria. As Hazreti Ali said, silence is a dumb devil in the face of injustice. However, this statement belongs to the Holy Prophet Muhammad. This is the saying of Ali the Lord: Do not bow before injustice, and bow down, and you will lose your rights, and then your honor. If the Prime Minister resigns from the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project and extradite the Jewish Prize for Superior Courage, the world of Islam will find peace. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Syrian Chief Mufti Ahmet Hassun wants to meet with the President of the Religious Affairs. Let us not come to Israel's play, but let us meet as the speakers of the two countries. However, the chairman of the Religion, which runs on the helm of power, rejects this invitation from the Syrian President of the Religion. With European Jewish rabbis, surrounded by Christian priests, the neighboring Muslim country refuses to meet with the President of Syria. He's also canceling all previous contracts and programs. He is the President of Religious Affairs, who has rejected the invitation in the history of Islam, who chose the fight over the peace. Israel and the Christian world enjoy war with Syria the most, while the Islamic world grieves. Islam, whose name is peace, invites believers to peace. In terms of religious, cultural, political, social, commercial and neighbourly law, Turkey's war with Syria would not be right, it would not be illegal. Let us not forget that God's wrath is more severe. Religion has become a great empire. There are more than 100,000 officers, 3 vice presidents, 5 presidential, 7 general managers, 35 office heads, 250 Dianet Affairs experts, 100 High Council experts, 40 Dianet mufts, other than district and county mufts, 40 presidential ministers, 15 presidential advisors. Now, we're discussing the up to 40 of the 15 presidential advisors. There's waste on the diet, there's staffing, there's politicalization. Diyanet, who is responsible for the waste of money, is swimming in waste, eating the budget of poor poverty, which is taxed by strange gurus, with activities organised in luxury hotels. (CHP) Our people make the most expensive pilgrimage in the world. The money for the pilgrimage is spent $400,000 on the residence of the president of the Diet. The Diet itself spends 8m 183,971 euros of the Hajji's pilgrimage money, which was set up as a precautionary visit in 2011 without the consent of the pilgrims.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0256par0503	Did you say that when you were a mufti?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0254par0504	The religion is not satisfied with money or staffing.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0257par0505	Mr. Ozkes, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0254par0506	Religion should be close to God, not to power. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0257par0509	Dear scholar, Kütahya. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0258par0512	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 9 of Bag Number 302, which we are discussing. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers predict that this clause of the proposal should be raised to 40 for 25 more counseling staff to the President of the Religious Affairs. We suggest that this be removed from the proposal text. I couldn't find the reason for this proposal because it came up with a last-minute motion during the commission meeting, and it was added to the proposal text. It seems that Mr. Chairman of Religious Affairs is looking for counsel for new duties he's recently engaged in. He needs advisors to support him in his fetishes. In this country, the President of the Religious Affairs who has not given a ruling on anything outside his field over the years has recently begun to instruct Mr. Dianet Affairs on many issues that have not fallen on him from abortion, which apparently has led him to need these advisors. Dear lawmakers, we don't understand that at a time like this, when the lowest domestic savings took place during the Justice and Development Party administration, the government would use such a staff in a wasteful manner to give a raise to a citizen and a working officer. See, right now, more than 3,000 deputy imams are shaking before the upcoming holy Ramadan, waiting for the staff of the President of the Diet Affairs. You'll forget these things, you'll place your men in other places as you wish, you'll assign honorary documents to the brides and grooms of the Mufti, but you'll leave our sons-in-laws who have been abroad for many years, who have been drafted, who have been chosen by the test, who have served as a deputy imam there. Let's get this counsel staff up here, and we'll get 3,000 deputy imams, or an arrangement that will get the 4/B proxy imams to work, and it'll be better. Look, I'm going to share with you a few of the cries of deputy imams who have been sent to all of us via the Internet, which I'm sure has reached you. These people say: "We are working on the thorn when our mission will end. There are memories in us. More than 15,000 people today have been remembered in Turkey, acting imams, but are waiting for the appointment. However, with the latest regulation, the amendment to the legislation, the KPSS scores of these people have been left aside, the competency documents have been left aside. Under the new conditions, he served eight months of honorary duty. The one who received the document went away, and settled in the staff. What's wrong with these people? These children are all our people, our children. Now, on the one hand, you're going to be able to use the staff of counselors comfortably, but you're not going to hear these people's cries. Dear lawmakers, there was an arrangement in 2005 for the recruitment of deputy imams or many other deputies in other professions. Many of our young people here have benefited from it. However, in the purchases of 2010, 2011 and 2012, the ads came out, which smelled purely of politics, fully under the control of mufti, envisioning the establishment. The deputy imams say that he's been running the Ministry of Religious Affairs for years trying us already. Give us the resources, the resources of the state, before we get a proper staff and waste our efforts. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I hereby share with you the cry of MPs, imam-hatip, muezzin-kayim, and non-assigned hafiz. I believe you'll be able to support the motion we're about to make. But this counsel, without informing the House, says that the allocation of staff will hurt all of us, and I offer you my respect again by waiting for your support in our motion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0259par0519	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0260par0520	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0259par0521	You want the number of decisions enough to be searched. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 10 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th law proposal of the current 302 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Recep Gürkan Bkent Kuşoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Enver Erdem Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Erdoğan Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0261par0543	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0259par0544	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0262par0546	Mr. Ahmet Duran Bulut.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0259par0547	Mr. Cloud, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0263par0549	Mr. President, I'm speaking on the motion that the 10th amendment to the 302 row bill be removed from the proposal of the law. Precious lawmakers were one of Turkey's most respected institutions to the AKP authorities, and no test he did was discussed in this country, no one was sure of its results, but the test that he did on his own became controversial as a result of being in power, in order to influence all institutions, for the sake of staffing, for not caring for licenses, for not caring, for favoring, for this institution's passwords were broken, and the test codes he did on the exams became controversial. In institutions, this bill is now being submitted to the exception of the presidential consultant, the press and public relations consultant. There's a rule in the government that people who do the same work don't leave, they don't make exceptions, it's justice. In each ministry, in each institution, the importance, the credibility of these institutions will be shaken, according to individuals, by such positions. People who serve at that institution, people who do the same job, people who do the same job, they get treated differently, they get paid differently, they get paid differently, they get complimented, they get dissatisfaction, failure, inefficiency in other staffs. But the government, in this regard, has, in a mind-boggling way, pushed aside savings policies in the state, where resources are coming from... can you imagine, as many deputy ministers in Turkey as the number of ministers, almost as many of the advisors have been assigned power cars under them. Before the AKP came to the government, the ruling Justice Party in Turkey, the Republican People's Party, coalition governments, in these times, you remember, in the newspapers, the headlines, there are so many Mercedes authorities in the departments. They wrote such numbers, they were no longer able to write for ten years, because every year they were taken into the ministries of incredible luxury cars, they were not kept, they were not followed, they were wasted. Think of the municipalities. There's a reign in the municipalities. When you call a mayor, you will receive an answer outside of your home. It's impossible to find mayors in Turkey as if they had a unit called abroad. Whoever they're following... In this sense, when such a waste goes on its head, such institutions, of course, imitate it. As with the counseling staff at other institutions he has taken with him, the counselor at his own institution has taken on an exceptional staff and requested a special, exclusive fee for him, a privilege from the Parliament to give him a separate special office. The Agency's Law passed this House last year. Then why didn't they complete it and bring it? As with every law, half-assed, caravan is fucked on the road, and then, at the end of the year like this, at the end of the year, I submit to your appreciation how serious it is to kick into a bag, a sack, and bring it to the front of Parliament, to the level of Parliament. In this framework, I welcome the acceptance of this motion, the acceptance of the 10th amendment, the acceptance of my offer to remove it from this proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0264par0558	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. On the other motion, Mr. Gürkan, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0265par0561	Mr. President, I've made a promise to the esteemed MPs about the 302-tiered soup law. I salute you all. We've got it right. What's that? Exceptional civil service. Where we have a jam, we want to create a staff, we want to appoint our own staff, pass the KPSS tests that have been successfully implemented in this country since 1999, and we add a few items to the inside of a bag of law, where we put a few exceptional officers. What's with all the exceptions? Let him carry the terms of Article 48, which is in 657, that is all that is required. It doesn't matter how many civil servants he's been. We'll take this guy. So who is this guy? This guy's one of our closest, one of the torpedo guys, so let's take him and make him a ministry consultant somewhere. So I looked at 657, and it's been added 11 times since 2002. Undersecretarys, undersecretary... come on, that's understandable, but on the other hand, we've created exceptional civil servants... all the way to the expert, expert assistants. Now, there are over 4 million public servants in the country. We can't find anyone to consult with, or consult with in these, and the counseling staff for all institutions. The staff of advisors to the president of the Turkish Cypriots, the staff of advisors to the Chief of Staff, the staff of one advisor to all. In this case, we're now assigning five consulting staffs to the president of the SNS. And one press consultant. Come on, we need a press consultant, we need one. It's essential because the SNS has made several hundred press releases a year. So, what are the other counselors gonna do? What will the president of the CPS consult with these advisors, what will he discuss, what will he evaluate? I've thought about it, and since there are five counselors, I've come up with five different subjects. First of all, I said, I'm sure he'll consult with a consultant to prepare questions according to the allies. Two: well, there's a leak after these questions are prepared; it's a demanding job. He's going to consult a consultant about how to leak these questions. Three: well, somebody's got to win. Who will win, who will be won? That needs to be consulted by a consultant. Four: With this law, the CSI is setting up co-ordinators abroad. What do they do? It's like he's taking too many tests. Who are we going to assign to these foreign coordinators, who will get 3,000, 4,000 euros a month, who will get paid 4,000 euros a month, who will identify them. What will the 5th adviser do? There's also the position of CSI, you know, starting a company and collaborating with these companies. And of course we're going to assign someone to these companies, where they're going to get their rights, they're going to get their peace. These counselors will consider it. On the other hand, within the law, there is an extraordinary point in which AKP has brought the educational system, a very clear example of how AKP is looking at education. What are we doing with this law? We have 30,000 new teaching staffs, free teachers, and indeed 350,000 beautiful children are waiting to be appointed. But, of course, in a country, if you want to train the public, you're going to increase the teaching staff, you're going to need teachers, you're going to increase that. So, what do you do where 30,000 teachers are assigned, where they open as a staff, if you take very good care of education? You'll have 30,000 police personnel. In fact, if you assign one police officer to every school, every class, instead of appointing one, Turkey will become just the kind of country you want it to be. Of course, there's also a message from the Minister to the teachers at the video conference. What was he saying, Mr. Secretary? Those who do not think like us should find another job and go to another area.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0266par0577	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit02spe0267par0578	You want roll call, sir. With pleasure, have them come in. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ören, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Silver, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çam, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Kölli, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Gürkan. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0267par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 302 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of the Article 87 of the Civil Code, which requires a amendment to a clause that does not exist in the commission text, but is very closely related to the bill or proposal. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and a number of motions may be submitted in this article. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. I'm going to dismiss the motion if the commission doesn't participate in it most of the time. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Article 11 of the following article to the current Law Proposal of 302 rows. We present the additive as matter. Article 11. It is dated 4/11/1981 and added the following clause to the 2547 Higher Education Law. Article 63. - A student of the medical faculty, VI. During their 12 months of training, class intern students are paid a daily gross minimum wage specified for workers over the age of 16. The funds are transferred from the Finance Ministry budget to the university budget for this purpose during the related fiscal year. Intern students are provided with food assistance in the amount of food allowance provided to attending physicians as part of the relevant legislation within the university they serve. The funds are transferred from the Finance Ministry budget to the university budget for this purpose during the related fiscal year. Intern students are the fourth member of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, dated 31/5/2006 and 5510. They are considered insured under the first joke (c) of the article. According to Act 5510, social security premiums for students of the Internet are transferred from the Health Ministry budget to the university budget. Oktay Vural Ali Self-Knowing Light Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0268par0019	We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0267par0020	Members of parliament, since the Commission has not already participated in the motion, I am withdrawing the motion from the process. We will now proceed with the 11th article. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the Law Proposal, 302 rows in sight. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Aydın Ayyadın Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Article 11-4.11.1981 and Article 2547 of higher education have been added to the following temporary clause. "Current Article 62 - As of the date when this clause is in effect, students who are studying at secondary schools and students who are subject to admission and placement procedures are 45 of the law. In accordance with the first joke of the clause (b), (d) and (f) lines, the secondary school achievement points, which will be added from the candidates' central exams, are calculated according to the procedures and bases set by the higher education board prior to the adoption of Act 6287." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa Berber and MP Yilmaz junç and 6 MPs of Bart's Law Proposal number 302 are in session; The Order of the Public Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi; The Proposal of the National Education Ministry to Change the Law on the Agency and Jobs; the Proposal of the Law, Balıkesir MP Namık Havutçççça and 6 MPs; The Proposition of Unemployable Teachers to Make Changes in Some Laws; and the Law on National Education and Services of Public Officers; The Proposal of the Laws and Orders of the Minister of National Education; The Proposals of the Law and 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments to the Law on the Law and 2th Amendments of the Law and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments of the Minister of Ministerships and 2nd Officers and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments of Unals and 2th Amendments and 2th and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendment of Non of Non of Non. and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment and 2th and 2th and 2th and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment of Non of Non of Non of Non and 2th Amendment of Non of Non of Non of Non of Non of Non of Nons and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendments and 2th Amendment and 2th Amendment Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Enver Erdem "It is dated 11-4/11/1981 and added the following temporary clause to the 2547 Higher Education Law. "Temporary Article 62 -- In addition to the entry and placement of this clause in 2012, the first joke of Article 45 of this Law (b), (d) and (f)bents of this law are calculated according to the procedure and basis set by the Higher Education Board, which will be added to the candidates' central scores from the examinations." Does the commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0269par0042	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0267par0043	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0270par0045	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0267par0046	Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0271par0048	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 11 of Law Proposal 302. I salute your high council. Such an important soup, excuse me, our nation can't watch us when we're discussing the law of the bag. It is also useful to add to this law that the Parliament TV broadcast should continue while Parliament is working, because the law that you've made into soup is making very serious changes that concern every section of Turkey, but a very important part of society is unable to follow the issues we're doing here, unfortunately, in the Parliament. Therefore, I invite all of you to consider once again putting Parliament TV broadcasts into this law that will ensure that TRT 3 broadcasts continue as long as Parliament works. Now, I was a college student from 1981 to 1985. The ECHR was established in '82. We finished our school in four years under four separate classes. Every year, we went through the trouble of changing systems. Now, college entrance exams are changing the method of calculating middle school scores. When is it being changed? Four years ago, children who did the math according to the current system are changed a week before they took the university exam, making their own preferences to the science school, Anadolu high school, Anadolu teacher's high school, vocational high school. For one thing, this is not an acceptable procedure. It's playing with these kids' dreams. It's a violation of the rights of these children. Therefore, it is impossible to accept this change. Besides, when the change should be applied to whom, how? This needs to be identified correctly. No one has the right to play with our young people's dreams. And you shouldn't violate the right of a servant. The change in the week when a high school student who started high school four years ago will take the university exam on a high school average is unfair and inappropriate. An agricultural research institute has been working for years on its new plant species, testing that plant species over and over again in different climates and seasons, bringing the new species to the market when it thinks it's getting better. The 4th National Education Minister of your ten-year period of power is also on the road to education reform. Mr. Secretary, when we make radical decisions about our future generations, there's no pilot apps, there's not enough prep work. I know everything, but it seems that the one who knows is very wrong. We keep talking about the same laws here all the time. With the 4+4+4 system, you've been playing with the dreams of our young people who prefer to teach the classroom and be a kindergarten teacher. For the next few years, they'll be the most on the list of unassigned teachers. Again, the Ministry of National Education employs several paid teachers. Who does he employ as paid teachers? The college graduates he wanted. There are thousands of unassigned teachers. Of these, we have thousands of teachers who have received enough points to become teachers and applied to the Ministry of National Education to be appointed. And yet, while there are people who have won the teacher's test, who have a teaching degree, who have the ability to teach, you hand our children over to amateur teachers who have no teaching training, who have no teaching knowledge. You're also victimizing both our children and our teachers, and you have no right. As we study the education system, we need to make the necessary preparations on time, and according to the preparations, we need to implement pilot applications and then demonstrate changes to the education system. Education is not the toy of the AKP's power. The teaching profession is not a tool for AKP power. Therefore, I propose that this clause be removed from the bill, that our amendment proposal be accepted, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0272par0058	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 11th law proposal for the current 302 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Article 11-4.11.1981 and Article 2547 of higher education have been added to the following temporary clause. "Current Article 62 - As of the date when this clause is in effect, students who are studying at secondary schools and students who are subject to admission and placement procedures are 45 of the law. In accordance with the first joke of the clause (b), (d) and (f) lines, the secondary school achievement points, which will be added from the candidates' central exams, are calculated according to the procedures and bases set by the higher education board prior to the adoption of Act 6287." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0273par0067	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0272par0068	Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0274par0071	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0272par0072	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0275par0074	Mr. President, if you'll pay attention to this amendment proposal, you're proposing a new amendment to Article 2547, which you've brought with the National Education Act No. 6287, which is 4+4+4. So you've spent the national education law number 6287 in the Commission, regardless of our proposals, without talking to us or using violence, but it's the law that has passed its first bankruptcy today. And from now on, especially when the schools start, you'll see that families who can't send a five-year-old to school are not going to be able to apprentice 13-year-olds again. That's why you'll have to change it again. The same thing as the national law of education is actually no different than the complete removal of national education and planting matchwater at the root, my dear friends. So, with the national education law, the secular education system has been wiped out by the latest amendment, Tevhidi Tedrisat, the laws of revolution have been ignored, but you will have to come back from it one by one because people, your children, will force you to do so. Friends, the change in the 11th article was actually brought in because of the account your own children asked you about. You couldn't even answer for your own children, you couldn't answer. The substance text -- in fact, the text is not fully understood -- is very corrupt -- but the reason why is it that children who took the university exams this year were brought in this year to be valid in children who took the test this year, so that the weighted mid-education score before Law 6287 would be valid. Dear friends, you're bringing this account because you can't account for it to your children. You're bringing it in because there's a huge reaction from citizens and young people, but that's going to happen in the years after that. You won't get away with this. When you go home today, you won't be able to answer to your children, dear friends, like I couldn't. Now, my dear friends, you're bringing this for this year, maybe you're saving these kids from this plague, weighty mid-school success score. What's a weighted mid-education success score? Our kids got into SBS, they got into good schools, they got into good schools, they got into good schools, they got into college, and that's what the children's personal successes were all about, and that's where the weighted mid-education success points were added to that, but you can't apply that to other kids. Dear friends, you have placed the 61st interim clause of 6287, the temporary clause about children currently studying in vocational schools, and you have brought this provision for additional points in vocational upper secondary schools, but by not giving this right to children in the upper secondary schools of Anatolia, straight high schools, and by not bringing this arrangement, you are committing the sins of those children, and you are taking the sin of those children. The kids who go to vocational high schools are our kids, but aren't they our kids, our kids, your kids? How can you bear such a sin? I don't get it, guys. Now, when our children entered the SBS, they tried to enter successful schools. Now he had a coefficient when he entered the school, and everyone got plus points in the field of their choice; two, he had a high-profile mid-education achievement score based on the school's success. So they chose, and they worked for days and years, and they went to the classrooms, and they didn't sleep day and night. There were these rules when you entered school, you changed the rules in the middle of the game, you changed those rules when you left school, you changed those rules a week before you entered PTSD. You can't tell these kids that, guys. Every young man that comes before you will ask you, "What is my right? What is my work?" You will not be able to answer it. Whatever rule applies when you start school, the same rules have to apply when you get out of school, but you've eliminated this universal rule, this rule of equality. Now, my dear friends, if school success points don't matter, why is there any more SBS if there's no point in going to successful schools? We don't have the Minister of National Education here either, but why are the members of the National Ministry of Education answering: Why are the children entering the SBS? If entering a science school is not important, if it is not important to enter an Anatolian teacher, if it is not important to attend an Anatolian high school, why do these children enter SBS?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0276par0084	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you; your time is up.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0277par0087	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0276par0088	You want roll call. Here you go. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Öner, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Serter, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Şafah, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Oran, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Onur. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There's a motion for a new substance violation. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 11 of the framework. Mustafa Elitaş Ayşenur Islam Recep Gürkan The following temporary clause has been added to Law 12-2547. Those who do not benefit from the temporary Article 58 of the Law (including those who have studied within the framework of International Common License Programs) can begin their studies in the following education-school year if they apply to the institute of higher education, where their ties have been cut off since the day they entered into force. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0278par0114	There are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0276par0115	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anybody want a word on the motion? Question-answer? No. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, the proposal is thus added to the new 12th article. During the writing of the law, this clause will be added and other matter numbers will be identified. To avoid any confusion, we will proceed with the current commission report. Now, there are two motions on the existing 12th article, which I'm reading: This is the 12th draft of the current bill, 302 rows. After this date, we would like to change the terms of the change in income to be reported a month after this date. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Aydın Ayyadın Haluk Eyidoğan Levent Sky Free Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bart's MP, Yilmaz Tunisian and 6 MPs, who have been in contact with 302 rows, have been asked to make amendments to some Laws; The Orders of the People's Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; The Proposal of Law on National Education Ministry's Organization and Jobs; the Proposal of Law on Law on the Law, Balıkesir MP Namık Havutça; The Proposal of Non-Aditable Teachers to Free Kadros and State Officers' Law on Organizations Orders; The Proposal of 2nd Amendments and 2th Amendments to the Law on the Law and 2th Amendment to the Law and 2th Amendment of the Law and 2th Amendment of the Minister of the Ministership and 2th Amendments and 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of Ministerships and 2nd Amendments. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdoğan Enver Erdem Ali Öz "The following joke was added to Article 7 of Article 2828 of Social Services Law, dated 12-24/05/ 1983. "The person who provides care for the disabled and the disabled in their homes has to report the income change to the county office within three months of the first joke if the income in the disabled person exceeds the income scale specified by the first joke. After this date, income change will be reported or paid for maintenance services in case the state's office determines this situation, and as of the date of the change, with legal interest, it will be monitored and collected according to general provisions from the person providing care services," he said. Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0279par0137	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0276par0138	Mr. Secretary? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who will speak, Mr. Shandir?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0280par0141	Dear Ali Oz.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0276par0142	Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0281par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have submitted a motion on the 11th amendment, a new clause violation, and you have denied it. The fact that some rights were granted to them in exchange for the great persecutions suffered by the 6th graders in medical school would have meant giving them something they actually deserved, but unfortunately, I'd like to express first that I'm sorry to see that no one is interested while we're reading in the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we must first call these people "objectives," not "sorry." Helping the disabled, helping the disabled, helping the caretakers, the housekeepers, the helpers, it's of course a good thing to contribute to the state in terms of the social state, it's a good thing to have a monthly commitment, but in this law, every time you come to the General Assembly within a bill, and that's how you care about it. However, we think it would be a fairer approach for our disabled citizens in Turkey to be tied to these people on a monthly basis at the aid point of those who took over 70 per cent of the health board report and established the obstacle to their family. In fact, in a large commission by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, a review of the maintenance fees for these disableds on a major commission will be in front of a part of the budget, which we can accept as a waste, which is a part of the spending, which we can accept as a waste, and those who have little income above normal minimum wage will be able to avoid taking advantage of that right. Of course, I want to make it clear here that the disabled have a large number of problems, that we are not opposed to any improvements with the bill in order to address these problems. However, if you think about it, there are certain differences in a home care point for a person with severe heart failure, who has suffered from a home care system and a stroke. And when we pay these maintenance fees, we pay them all the same standard, same price, same money. That's not true. So we think it's better to reduce the amount of health care reports from the health boards, which are related to what diseases, if the level of apology is not in what age class, and the amount of assistance given is not as much as a minimum wage -- it's now a minimum wage given by our government, but it's more likely to reduce the amount for some of them and increase the amount for those who deserve it. At the same time, we think it would be better if these disability salaries were re-opened and discussed and reached a decision in a broad commission and the General Assembly, which would provide assistance to the disabled at home, at home, at home, at home, at their municipality of residence. This way, of course, it's good to help, but it's good to help people who don't deserve some of the help that we've helped, some of the people that we've helped in the social state, even though they don't deserve it, some of them don't get it even though they deserve it. In order to remove this obstacle, this matter must be brought up. I salute the High Assembly with the belief that such support for the disabled should be judged in a broader framework, not in the bag of legislation, but in the main commissions.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0282par0151	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 12th draft of the current bill, 302 rows. After this date, we would like to change the terms of the change in income to be reported a month after this date. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0283par0158	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0282par0159	Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk? Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0284par0164	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the 12th amendment of Bag Number 302. According to Article 2828 of the Social Services Act, the temporary 7th article of the Social Services Act 2828 states that the income must be paid by a minimum wage for those who are under 2/3 of the net minimum wage, or by an official or private care facility or by a household care fee, as I have just stated. So, are we doing something tonight that raises that salary in this bag of legislation, or are we doing something better about it? No. This is what I promised: that if the minimum amount of income is up to 2/3, and you don't report it within three months, these coins -- the payment will be immediately halted -- will be collected with interest, if necessary, even on the way to execution. This is a clause that predicts that when a person's income is over 500 liras, the payment must be stopped immediately and executed if necessary. Frankly, when you read this, and when you see this bag of laws in such a tight period, when you know that the ministers are trying to force a few substances into it, you're really surprised, you're terrified. I mean, we got every bird, and there's only one stork left. If there's a problem here, we'll leave right away, collect with interest. Now that the Minister has had the chance to put something in the bag of legislation, once we've tried to get rid of this word "sorry" together. We prefer the word "sorry" in terms and in laws. Look, if you say sorry, you take the apology to the center, and you think the person you call disabled is imperfect and responsible for the matter, and you go into context by keeping that flaw and deficiency above that person. But if you say it's blocked, you take the individual to the center, and you see the difficulty caused by the environmental barriers, and now you're thinking about removing those barriers. But for some reason, we, in our laws, in our additional regulations, insist and stubbornly use this word, which is an apology. When you say sorry, there is a sidewalk, to give you a very small example, that sidewalk is an obstacle to someone who is physically disabled and can't walk, but it's not an obstacle to a deaf person. When you say sorry, you don't have any trouble overcoming that obstacle because you don't put all the responsibility on that person. So you're saying that it's everywhere you are. Don't let me see you, no matter what happens to your family. If necessary, let us give you his money. This is a matter of secessioning the disabled from the community and literally preventing them from being involved in society. When you're blind, the heart is a product of folding logic. This logic is the same logic that in the Second Legislature, Lord Emrollah was then a student of the National Education Minister, and if there were no students, how well the Maarif power of power would be managed. Making a cure by keeping the disabled out of sight is not really right, it is not right, and it shows the AKP's view of the disabled. We have 8.5 million disabled people in 2002; 12.3 per cent and we're arguing at that time, why above the world average? But the number in 2008 is 1.7 million disabled, and the average is 2.3 per cent. The AKP failed to remove the obstacles in front of the disabled, but managed to eliminate 7 million disabled people overnight. That kind of logic, that's not an approach. (Applause from CHP rows) And when the world's disabled average is 10 per cent, someone in Turkey has to really explain how 2.3 per cent are disabled. The U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Handicapped Rights signed and approved at the end of 2009, but it did not apply to our internal law, there are serious shortcomings. I'll give you a little example: the initials E. E. I've got his name, Mr. Secretary. I'll give it to him right away. This friend graduated law school in the first place. He took the judge's exam and made it the 2nd place in Turkey, but was not appointed. You know why they don't? Article 8 of the Law of Judges and Prosecutors states that if there is a body or mental illness or injury that can prevent him from doing his job, there is no appointment for him to be disabled, such as speaking in a way that the environment may be unable to address and control the movement of his organs.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0285par0174	Mr. President, give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0284par0175	So he says if there's a tiny flaw in his arm...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0286par0176	We're not giving it to anyone, brother, so I'll ask you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0287par0177	Positive discrimination, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0286par0178	Okay, time's up.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0288par0179	I mean, Mr. President, he's talking about the handicapped, the handicapped.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0286par0180	It's disabled, so...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0288par0181	He's talking about the handicapped.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0286par0182	It doesn't say that anywhere, brother. We do the same thing to everyone, to all of them.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0288par0183	It says, it doesn't say. What is he talking about, Mr. President? What's he talking about?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0289par0184	That's very fair of you, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0286par0185	Your time is up, sir. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0290par0186	I'll continue my next speech. My respects.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0291par0189	He's expressing a problem with a disabled person.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0292par0190	This can't be happening, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0293par0191	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 13: T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 13th amendment of the current bill, 302 rows. In the last article of the article, the fee is collected along with the legal interest. We want the statement to be changed into ίlegal interest and other expenses are collected in order to be collected. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Aydın Ayyadın Haluk Eyidoğan Levent Sky Free Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 13 of the current Law Proposal 302 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz "The following temporary clause is added to Law 13-2828. "Temporial Article 9: The amount paid illegally due to the violation of the income measure mentioned in the first joke to people who have been paid due to the maintenance service to the disabled based on Article No. 2828 under Article 7 of the Social Services Act before this clause is taken into effect is collected with the amount of legal interest specified in the first joke. In the event of a double or more increase of the income scale in question, all improper payment is collected with legal interest. He has no right to receive in favour of those concerned with the sums collected within this scope before this clause goes into effect." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0294par0209	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0293par0210	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0295par0212	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0293par0213	I'm reading the reason: The term "retarded" is intended to be changed to "blocked." I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 13th amendment of the current bill, 302 rows. In the last article of the article, the fee is collected along with the legal interest. We want the statement to be changed into ίlegal interest and other expenses are collected in order to be collected. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0296par0222	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0293par0223	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0297par0226	Mr. Free Special.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0298par0227	Mr. President, you didn't promise, the group promised. You didn't give me a minute. He gave me five minutes, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0293par0228	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0299par0230	Mr. President, I thank you, I pay my respects. I'd also like to thank my group for showing the sensitivity you're not showing on the subject. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I've just been interrupted, but I'll start over. When you didn't make the necessary arrangements in civil law, what contract did you sign, what did you get approved in the House, it doesn't make sense. E. E. A law student from law school whose arm was missing, who graduated from law school with a lack of arm, took the 1st in law school, became the second in the test of the judge, was expected to be appointed, and was not appointed. We promised to remove such obstacles, internal law barriers, but he's busy with his work, and how can I increase the isolation of prisons a little more? The Minister of Justice, who thought, had found an opportunity and did not remove this barrier in front of this girl. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let's take a step further. In the Republican People's Party's election declaration, there is an additional elder protocol for the contract that you approved and did not implement. We say that the additional protocol must be signed without delay and that the obstacles to the disabled in Turkey must be removed quickly. There are so many shortages in this area, but we are still pursuing the interest and the ability to collect something that has been paid more. For example, medical board reports. All the lawmakers here know that we are constantly being asked to receive disability pensions or to determine the obstacle situation. Different hospitals in the same district detect different rates of disability. Let him go, there's a care allowance for these heavy-duty retards we're talking about today, and there's a list of 10 items to be asked for in total, 10 items. Let him go, you've accepted the 10th article, the 6th article of this is the income state. I printed out the county manager's office in Rize, where, for example, he asked for six additional items, and one of them was a document of tea income. We want 16 documents from the disabled about the home care allowance, and one of them is on the third floor, and one is on the 2nd floor at the bottom of the floor. That kind of logic, that kind of understanding doesn't exist. Also, you have to make it clear that home care allowance is $634 for January-June 2002 and $673 for July-December. It's called tecrit, which means don't stand in front of the disabled and the woman, and stop somewhere else. Look at the disabled at home, and I'll give you money; look at your patient at home, and I'll give you money. The logic is not incompatible with the social state; it is a logic that isolates women from social life and deprives the disabled from professional care. Sometimes it's a system that can turn into violence, sometimes death, and sometimes unimaginable torture, and in chains in the house, it brings out those visions of consciences. I want to get rid of my responsibility to build a state halfway house. Whatever his money is, let this problem go before my eyes. Such an approach is not in line with social state logic. The logic that sees a woman as a breeding machine is that when you give a marriage certificate after weddings, five children are good, but I want the word of at least three children. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) This logic, which takes the first step in carrying out women's savings on their bodies with the Caesarian and abortion, now you sit at home, look at the child, look at the disabled, but don't wander around, neither these children nor these patients are around. The home care of the disabled is extremely risky and very problematic because it is made by people who lack education. I went through the newspapers last year, and there's 35 samples in six months, but I'll read a couple of them as soon as I can: March 7, 2011: He beat and killed his English daughter. April 6, 2011: "Suspected death in the sea." They were found murdered by her sister and her sister's friend, and arrested. April 27, 2011: The mentally disabled girl burned to death. June 20, 2011: The mentally disabled person was found dead by the creek. June 21, 2011: "Lost mentally challenged young man found dead in the forest." There are thirty such specimens in six months. For all these reasons, there is a need for a whole new vision of disabled rights, the product of a real social state logic, which looks at the issue with a different perspective from its definition, its name, its solution proposals from perspective. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0300par0249	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 14th amendment of the current bill, 302 rows. We propose and propose that the statement of education at the end of the article be changed into "they have a degree in education." Sakine Öz Kazım Kurt Aydın Aya morning Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 14 amendment of the current Law Proposal 302 rows be changed as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdoğan Enver Erdem Muharrem Varlı (Article 14.) - The first joke (b) of Article 41 of Highway 2918, dated 13/10/1983, has been changed in the following way. They have at least an elementary school degree as part of the study situation." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0301par0273	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0300par0274	Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President. Dear Varli, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0278	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Again, as usual, an AKP classic. I've been a congressman for two semesters, my 5th year. Nothing's changed. All winter international agreements, spend time with this; when the holiday season begins, bring in new loaded materials, bags of laws, these... if these are over, we'll go on vacation........ let's not go on vacation. I mean, what kind of system does that have, like, a working system? We're not too interested in taking a vacation, but we need to get this work system in order. Come on, tomorrow the lawmakers arrive at twelve o'clock and arrive at one. So, what's the fault of the people who work here? Now, the stenographers who serve here, the friends who serve at the teapot, the law, the fellow officers in the Decisions, what are they going to do? I mean, we're not human beings, we're not machines, we're not cartoon heroes, so let's load up energy like this, sir, let's work until the morning, let's move on, then, day after day, we'll continue on the same terms. Now, we're all people; we need to rest and sleep like air, water, food, drinking. Look, the gentleman is taking a nap. Look, the guys in the back are napping. Of course, by this time of night, if you set up a operating system like this, if you put in the same operating system one more day at a time, people will fall asleep. Look, the Lord says, "Don't come at me with a servant." The only thing I won't forgive is the right of a servant. I mean, is there anything better to eat than that? You're officially taking credit for this right now, brother. You're killing the rights of these working people. So...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0303par0282	Who's eating?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0283	You eat, you eat. If you set up a study system like this, you're eating the rights of a slave.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0303par0284	What did we put in?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0285	Shut up, shut up! You don't understand, you shut up! Now, look, guys, if we agree here... here, yesterday, we all finished 52 articles in an hour, two hours, but you're not stubbornly, we're going to be like this. No, that's how we're going to do it. If you come up against us with a restraining order, of course, there will be motions on every clause, there will be talks on every substance. As a result, it will continue until morning.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0304par0287	Do you want us to accept the motion or not?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0288	You wouldn't take the motion, Mr. President. What motion did you agree to so you could accept it?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0304par0289	Do you want us to accept the motion or not, Mr. Muharrem?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0305par0290	We'll embarrass you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0291	Look, it's not in your capacity to accept the motion. Well, for once, look, you're eating the rights here. I have a legal proposal for this, since you didn't even put this together on the committee, you're eating your rights here.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0306par0293	No, do you want us to take the motion or not?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0294	So if my name is spoken here, then Muharrem Varli has also submitted this bill. What harm can you get out of it?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0306par0295	Mr. Muharrem has made a good motion, shall we agree?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0296	But look, you can't even do this, you can't even admit it, and you can't even tolerate it, unfortunately, even here, you're eating the rights of the people.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0307par0297	Speak the motion, the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0298	So, you have no intention of agreeing to a motion, I don't know, a deal.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0307par0299	Mr. Muharrem, discuss the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0302par0300	You're just trying to make things worse. Here, go on, we'll keep going up this hill, we'll keep going up this ramp, we'll keep fighting until the end. No knee collapse, we'll keep fighting. Come on, let's go, let's go! Dear friends, look, with this law, we're actually returning a right. In fact, primary school graduates were unfair, driving courses were unfair, and injustice is being eliminated. Well, it's a good thing, but you can't even make a good thing happen, you can't make a date, I'm afraid. You've done me justice here, and I don't give you my blessing. I bid you all good night.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0308par0304	And you've done us justice.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0309par0305	We'll accept the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0310par0306	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0311par0308	Pay attention to your servant.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0310par0309	Since the motion has been adopted and the 14th amendment has been changed completely, I will remove the motion of Mr. Sakine Öz and his friends, the Member of Manisa, who envisions the amendment to this clause. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article: T. B. M. Head of M It's the 15th Law Proposal of the current 302. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Aydın Ayyadın In a court of law, you will go to the international arbitration board. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 15th article in the framework of the current Law Proposal 302 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz "The following 68/A clause was added after Article 68 of Turkish Civil Aviation Act 2920, dated 15-14/10/1983. Article 68/A - Under the name of the Republic of Turkey signed in Cape Town on 16/11/2001 and in disputes that could be found in accordance with Law 10/3/2011, which would be approved by Law 6192, "Agreement on International Guarantees on Moving Equipment" and "International Responsibility of Agreement on International Trusts" and "International Relations to Agreement to Agreement" are the basis of the Protocol on the specific issues. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0312par0329	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0310par0330	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0313par0333	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0310par0334	I'm reading the reason: The material text is intended to be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. Head of M This is the 15th amendment of Law 302. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends In conflict, you go to the international arbitration board. Do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0314par0344	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0310par0345	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0315par0348	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0310par0349	Mr. Pine, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. A supplement is being made to Article 68 of the Turkish Civil Aviation Act. A clause signed on behalf of the Republic of Turkey on 16 November 2001 in Cape Town, on 10/3/2011 and approved by Law 6192, and a contract on International Guarantees on Portive Equipment. In possible disputes from this contract, an additional clause is being brought in regarding the implementation of the protocol. Of course these international contracts are good. It's particularly important about civilian aviation, but while our Minister of Transport is here, I'd like to tell him about the incident that happened in civilian aviation. Mr. Secretary, you're leaving, but about your Ministry... I'm here, I'm here.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0316par0356	Okay. As you know, friends, these kind of international contracts are important, that's good, that's true, but we're also dealing with a major problem in aviation business in our country. Talks have been held between Turkish Airlines and the Air-Business Union for a long time, but due to the uncompromising stance of Turkish Airlines administration, a law that was brought here in the middle of the night, and the air forces were put under the scope of the strike ban, and when the workers' long-held strike rights were taken from them, the workers and the trade union were reluctantly opposed to it. This is a very natural act of rights, and it had to be done, but the Turkish Airways administration immediately met and laid off 305 people, including 45 members of the Turkish Airlines, who were members of the cabinet. Now, the state of the Republic of Turkey signed such a contract today under a contract in Cape Town, but the state of the Republic of Turkey has also signed under contracts 87, 98, 151 of which it is a member of the International Labour Organization of Turkey, 60, and 305 of our friends have lost their jobs on the air force, as well as on the right to strike and the right to a collective contract and strike, but unfortunately the unions in Turkey have not yet had the opportunity to use the right to strike. 305 of our friends have been waiting in Istanbul for 30 days at the Outline Terminal of Turkish Airlines. We told Mr. Secretary, we said, "Mr. Secretary, with the families of our 305 friends, there's a population of nearly 2,000 who are unemployed today, who have lost their job. If the state of the Republic of Turkey has signed under some international contracts, it must also abide by these agreements, but unfortunately your Turkish Airways administration and your government, especially your government, and you, have raised your finger to pass that law here. Mr. Interior Commission President, we've said over and over in the Commission, don't do it, don't do it, don't reset the reputation of Turkey, don't reset the prestige of Turkey in the international community. At the ILO meetings in Geneva on June 12th, the Minister of Labor, was there, sadly and sadly, faced with a number of criticisms. We said, "Don't do this. We warned you here, on the stand, but despite all our warnings, you ignored what we said and you made that law. What happened? 305 people lost their jobs. We're hearing it now, we're watching it, according to reports from the Vatan newspaper Can Atak and some newspapers, that our friend, who made this bill, collects CVs through another friend of yours and sends them to the Turkish Airlines administration, where people are being recruited instead of 305 friends. We don't want anyone to be unemployed, but your consciences and hearts agree with the loss of 305 friends, and we say to the Minister and the government here once again, and we warn them, you have to make an effort to get 305 of our unfairly laid off friends back to work. Yes, the issue has gone to trial, and the decision will be made, but in Turkey, business courts unfortunately don't decide until a year ago. It's impossible to accept that our friends lost their job for a year, and we want to make an effort and effort to get our 305 friends out of government and your power back to work. This is what we expect from our friends, from our friends, from our lawmakers, and from our friends who raised their fingers to him. I wish you all a good evening, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0365	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0318par0366	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0367	Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0318par0369	No, no, no.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0370	There's been a disagreement. With the device...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0319par0371	What disagreement?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0372	The conflict is this, sir...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0319par0373	Don't shout, Mr. President, why are you shouting?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0374	Our friend here and our friend here didn't get along, that's all. That's what I'm deciding. Please let me give it to you. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Guys, we're going to vote on the device, please.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0320par0378	Mr. Tanju, I condemn you, how can you look here and say...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0379	Someone says there isn't, someone says there is, and we do our duty, but they're screaming from there.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0321par0380	Mr. President, can't you see?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0381	Sir, if these people don't get along, I have to do it with the device, Mr. Akar. Otherwise, you're in charge. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0321par0382	We'll manage it when the time comes, so leave those seats.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0322par0383	Why are you shouting, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0384	Mr. Tanal, sit down. Please... please... You're all preaching from different places. You scream more every day than I do. You're screaming everywhere. I have to maintain order. It's not your job, I have to. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Here you go, fellas. Yeah, I'm trying to do a mission, guys. I'm begging you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0323par0388	You have to be gentle, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0389	Not as long as you scream like that. You have to be nice, too. You have nothing to do with this order, I have a duty, I have to do it, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0323par0390	You can't do it out loud, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0391	You can never scream!
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0323par0393	I invite you to respect, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0395	Congressmans, the motion has not been accepted, there is enough to decide. Now I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the 302-level Law Proposal in Article 16 of Article 16 shall be changed in the form of lignite fields. Mustafa Elitaş Cemal Öztaylan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramadan Can Durdu Mehmet Kastal Harun Karaca Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th law proposal of the current 302 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the Article 16 of the current Law Proposal of 302 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay D. Ali Torlak Muharrem Varlı Celal Adan Ali Longırmak Do you agree with the two motions of the same nature, Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0324par0425	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0426	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0325par0427	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0428	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0326par0429	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0317par0430	Mr. Özensoy, please.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0326par0431	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our friends came out here and told us about the problems with the bag bill. Now, when there's a law in the bag, we're trying to fill what God gave us, or rather, you're trying to fill it. Here we are, 50, 60 articles, 150 amendments to the law. Now I'm going to show you here as a consultant. Now, if this item hadn't been submitted to the ruling party's motion, or, I don't know, if it hadn't been accepted, it would have been open to privatisation of boron salts, tromons and asphaltite mines and nuclear energy raw materials and so on. How? The interim article states: "In addition to Law 2840, the domains under Law 24/11/1994 are specialised by the President of the Privatisation Administration on Privatisation Applications of 4046 under the Law under the Law of 2840, which areas are included in the Law of 2840? I now have Act 2840, boron salts, trona and asphaltite mines, nuclear energy raw materials. Now, if there had not been a word added here -- I mean, if they hadn't been called the Lynyite fields, the mines would have been open to privatisation, which, as I put it, had been stateized earlier, according to the 168th article, had such mines been operated by the government. Now, I'd like to point out from here if there's actually been a financial error here, or if the official or the official or no one who wrote this material text has done this on purpose, and we need to question that. And I'm going to put it this way: you know, again, there's been a lot of public talk about privatisation of boron salts in the last few days, and that's also because it's about an additive, so it's about an additive to Law 2840, an additive to a joke. Here, there is an additional clause in the form of a third person, which can only be seen through a tender for the production and enrichment of these mines, technical, commercial, economic reasons, to remain in ownership of the product. This additive actually, of course, caused controversy, not privatisation of the mines, but because it was an article that opened the way for privatisation of businesses, and in public, the Bor mines are being privatized. There have been debates, and we've seen them in the press. But as I said, if this clause goes through, which is transferred to the Industrial Commission's subcommittee, hopefully it will come out of there with an arrangement that will prevent or prevent the privatisation of the boron enterprises in that sense. So in addition to running or enriching the boron mines, it can be transformed into enrichment or buying chemical transactions, which do not have some technological possibilities. You have to be very careful in that sense. As we all know, if we were to ask here, our ruling party friends would object to privatisation, they would oppose it. In fact, when this issue comes to the agenda, when it comes to the CSI Commission, I will even privatise the debt mine, I will resign as a member of parliament. Our friends, who said, sincerely expressed their opposition to the privatisation of the boron mine, even the Minister had an explanation, but tonight, if this next motion is accepted, it will be returned from a disaster, which I personally am happy to warn and correct the members of the Group Vice President and his interested friends. Good evening.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0327par0438	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0328par0439	Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0327par0440	Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0329par0442	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 16th amendment of Law Proposal 302. That's why I salute the High Council. Mr. President, when I looked at you from the chair I was just sitting in, I was really sorry. You represent an important office in the state, and it's not right for lawmakers who do a very difficult job at this time of night to yell at the lines of opposition with your face all red on their faces. I'm asking you to set an example for us in the seriousness of the state that your position requires, and I'm really sorry, but I'd like to start with this first. Dear friends, this is the 16th article in the privatisation of our lignite mines. State seriousness does not require a midnight operation on such an important matter to place a law clause in the Plan and Budget Commission. State seriousness requires that this be discussed thoroughly by the government, that the opinion of the relevant NGOs be taken from the opposition, and that the law on our billions of dollars worth of lignite mines should come as a bill, not an offer, but as a brief summary of what has happened on our lignite mines, we will be able to understand much more clearly why this is not at the ruling party. Dear friends, many of our lignite mines were nationalized in 1978 by the Republican People's Party. The reason it's publicized is because the use of these lignite mines in the private sector is reckless and does not serve the interests of the country. Our publicized lignite mines were closed in 2002 on the grounds that your reign was inefficient at the beginning of your power. Many of our closed lignite mines have been rented to certain companies -- pay attention, all kinds of goods and services in the state must be sold or rented -- without being tendered. Later, these leased lignite mines were bought at exorbitant prices to distribute coal to poor families without contract or to be given to thermal plants. Now, this court report you see here in my hand is the document of this whole story of shame, my dear friends. When you read the Court's 2010 report on Turkish Coal Company, when your party was in power, it's very difficult to say by the Ministry of Energy, but here is the document of what kind of corruption has been done, what kind of bad omens have been done, how their rights have been defeated, dear friends. Now, our linite mines of corruption are now subject to privatisation. Well, wasn't it privatized before? Yeah, it was privatized. How was it privatized? By one order of a general manager, the reödovans, which no one knows about, has already been dealt with without a contract, and when you look at such practices, these poor governances, these corruptions, the increase of these costs, the privatisation of this right to an orphan, has pave the way for this brutal capitalist thala, dear friends. Now, you're trying to rebuild it under the name of privatisation when all the applications of this, this illegal practice, this brutal capitalist practice are finished. Dear friends, when you look at the law, now that you've made it legal for the lignite, I hope you can tell the Minister of Energy what I'm saying, there are asphaltite mines here. This law says that the mines to be run by the state must be run by our asphaltite mines by the government. The lawmakers in the southeastern region know that we have asphaltite mines in Şırnak, our precious friends and asphaltite mines are run by the Ciner Group and are already privatised by Development Mining, but the law says that you have to be operated by the state. As with any procedure, your illegal practices continue. You're out of state seriousness, you don't know government administration, and you're trying to shut down this ignorance, this ignorance, this government experience with the dominant bag of laws in the middle of the night. I hope that you will soon come out of power with the votes of this nation, and this nation will be free of you. Thank you very much, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0330par0453	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0331par0454	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit03spe0330par0455	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0330par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the two motions, which had been jointly processed on Article 16 of the Law Proposal 302, was not sufficient. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, there are no motions. We'll now resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the 302-level Law Proposal in Article 16 of Article 16 shall be changed in the form of lignite fields. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0332par0013	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0330par0014	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0333par0015	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0330par0016	The reason, please. It is made clear that matter is only related to lignite fields. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article has been accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 17th law proposal of the current 302 rows. Instead of adding the word "all kinds of disasters" at the end of the article, we propose and propose that the expression be added. Kazim Kurt Aydın Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Musa Pine Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the framework 17 clause of the current Law Proposal 302 rows to the following form. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay D. Ali Torlak Muharrem Varlı Celal Adan Ali Longırmak Article 17-29/05/1986 and Article 2 of the Social Aid and Solidarity Act 3294 added to the following jokes. "In addition to being subject to law-based social security agencies or having months or incomes connected for months or months, those with minimum income, according to the criteria set by the Fund, according to the number of people in the household, are also under the Law. Aids to be made with this Law are made by giving the HELALKART. THE expenditures with HELALKART are based on a tradeshop outside the store in the country, or in the village, where the card owner resides. The procedure and the basics for the giving and using of HILALKART are determined by the regulation to be implemented by the Fund Board. Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0334par0042	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0330par0043	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0335par0044	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0336par0045	Mr. Tin Man, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0330par0046	Mr. Tin Man, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0337par0048	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 17th Amendment. I salute you all. In our country, the welfare and services system is not functioning in a healthy way. It is not possible to find the answer to the question of social welfare and social services from the system to whom, under what circumstances, how much, when, and how long? The system organises these benefits, not as a right, but as a blessing. The standard for assistance is low. Aids are more likely to be done according to the appreciation of political power. The system is available for pleasure and political use. The system is seen by the AKP as a political routing tool, as well as by the AKP. The problems of the social welfare system in general are the lack of effective control and control system, the difference between the resource-substantiated institution and the monitoring units, the lack of operational control of projects and benefits, the lack of objective criteria in distribution of aid and detection of target mass, the lack of framework social aid law, the lack of support based on the basis of rights, the lack of a trustee's committee membership election, the lack of political guidance, the lack of public institutions and NGOs providing social assistance, the lack of joint data sharing, the lack of joint terminology, and the lack of a large number of institutions that are operating in social aid, and the lack of assistance. Therefore, a comprehensive study must be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're correcting four issues with our motion. First of all, we're making a change in terms of the offer. We can see that this is not a perfect justice. It's like this: the expense of an eight-person family is never twice as much as the expense of a family of four, because there are fixed costs, like rent, like fuel. Therefore, we propose that we make this qualifier more fair. When the fund is established, we predict the minimum living expenses based on the number of individuals within the household and social assistance for those underlying it. We also have a very good suggestion that I believe you will agree with this offer. On the commission, Mr. Minister Fatma Hanım may have been caught up in his name, but she said it was the right thing to give him, and they said it was a work of their own. We say -- you know, it's a project of the National Movement Party -- that the aid of Law 3294 is to be given by the Holy Card. It's our recommendation that the funds be loaded with these cards, in their own neighborhood, in their own neighborhood, in their own town, in the tradeshop. In our proposal for Halal Kart (Hillal Kart), we leave the procedure and the basis for its use to be put into practice by the fund board. Of course, there's one thing we disagree with in the current proposal, and we're taking it out on our proposal. What's that? Help is also envisioned under the Law on Social Aid and Solidarity for those who have been injured from the pardon. The aid of those who have been injured from the pardon can't belong to Fak Fuk Fon, my dear friends. There are laws about that. There really is a problem with the implementation of these laws. We, the National Movement Party, often criticize it. The procedure is to make the necessary correction of the laws on disaster, on aid to victims of disaster. One of the things we want to get out of here again is that we don't want to be involved in an dishonorable act such as the use of social aid by relatives and veterans. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm hoping you'll support our offer, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0338par0059	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 17th law proposal of the current 302 rows. Instead of adding the word "all kinds of disasters" at the end of the article, we propose and propose that the expression be added. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0339par0066	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0338par0067	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0340par0068	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0338par0069	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0341par0070	Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0338par0071	Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0342par0073	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a promise on the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws Number 302. We proposed a small change in a motion on the 17th article of this. Thanks to the government, you accept. This is the case: In the current case, the welfare and solidarity are envisioned by Article 2 of the Advantage Law to help those in need. The 17th article also stipulates that those who suffer from disasters, martyrs, veterans, and Social Security will receive a salary from one of their social security institutions, while those whose income is less than a third of the net minimum wage will benefit from it. We asked that this word of disaster be consolidated because it was controversial, and then there would be no trouble. This is one of the most important, positive clauses in this proposal. There's a few positives, one of them. We see, along with the regulation of this clause, that there is a need for a new structure in the social security system and especially in the social welfare system, a new understanding needs to come because we haven't yet grasped all our citizens. There's an estimated 13 million masses that need to be included in the welfare system in particular. We don't know about these in particular. We don't fully understand how much of these have to be subject to social benefits at what level. For him, during the general election last year, our party, which was talked about a lot, had a family benefit, a family insurance system. We suggested that a family institution be established, set up as soon as possible. In that system, we specifically recommended a separate institution for the detection of the poor, the poor, the household, their families, the status of their income, and the monitoring of their income. In this institution, it also separates family members, one by one, young, old, and according to school education, separate health benefits were envisioned and provided by categories. The restructuring of this welfare system, with such understanding, needs to be redeveloped and handled this way, and it needs to be handled. Besides, we have, you know, an economy with a lot of off-the-books. There must also be some measures to prevent this discrepancy. Especially the social security area, the social welfare area, which is a very important area to avoid, given the finance ministry and the IRS. They need to use a common trick for individuals, for households, for corporations, for corporate personalities. With this common trick, they need to be able to track both corporate personalities and real personalities. As long as we can't do that, we'll always be troubled about it. Although we are making a fine arrangement here, there will be difficulties with the practice -- various charities, intergalactic differences, and inequalitys of different understandings. In order to minimize these, there must be a common number all over Turkey. I also want to thank you for accepting our motion. I pay all my respects at this time of night. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0083	Before the vote, I was told that Mr. Hamzacebi will make a slight change in the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0344par0084	We recommend that all kinds of disasters be changed from all kinds of disasters, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0085	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes, along with this last little change: those who accept... those who refuse... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 17th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 18th article: T. B. M. Head of M This is the 18th amendment of the current bill, 302 rows. Instead of the term "turn over" in the article, we ask that others be replaced by. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Aydın Ayyadın Haluk Eyidoğan Kerim Özkan M. Volcano Canalioğlu İstanbul Burdur Tripoli İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current Law Proposal 302 rows be replaced in the following way by Article 18 in the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfetttin Yilmaz Enver Erdem Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Alim Ik The following article has been added to Law 18-3294. ▪ That social benefits and benefits cannot be seized Subsequent Article 2- With benefits and project supports provided by this law, it is not foreclosed, even if it is by law that the person's consent to the adoption of the old and disabled aid of the 65-year-old, No. 2022, to the Non-Powered and the Monthly Bondage of Turkish Citizens," he said. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0345par0106	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0107	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0346par0108	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0347par0109	Read the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0110	The reason, please. It is expected to be replaced as a subsidiary of the application. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, since the 18th amendment has been changed completely by the motion adopted, I am withdrawing the motion of İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and his friends, which stipulates a formal amendment to this clause. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 19 be removed from the framework of the proposed Law of 302 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Enver Erdem Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0348par0124	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0125	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0349par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0127	Mr. Shandir, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0350par0128	Let the reason be read, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0129	Read the reason, please. It is recommended that the item be removed from the Proposal text, as there is no need for such regulation for the MPs, when the citizens have all these problems. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0351par0134	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0135	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0351par0136	In the motion that we have just accepted, we have the expression "apologic aid," which should actually be apologetic months. I'm offering your appreciation, sir, for changing it in this way.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0137	In that way, the design...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0351par0138	Yeah. ▪ There should have been disabled pensions.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0139	Okay. There are two motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 20th article of the current Law Proposal 302 rows to the following form. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Article 5 of Organised Industrial Areas No. 4562, dated 20-12/4/2000, has been changed in the following way. Article 5-The OSB is a private legal personality given by the Ministry on the application of the Institution Committee, which can or may not be able to act under the mandate of public benefit and borders. The cost of the ownership of the land and the obligation to pay the land price is OSB's corporate personality. T. B. M. Head of M 20 of the current bill number 302. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Salih Fırat == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0352par0157	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0158	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0353par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0343par0160	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0354par0162	Mr. President, I'm talking about the motion we made in Article 20 of Bag Number 302. Organised industrial areas -- most of the organised industrial areas are in my area -- are located in the province of Alexandria -- are associated with 13 organised industrial areas in Ankara, Izmir and Kopeeli, three of them with thirteen organised industrial areas, but when you look at the facial measurements, it is the city that has the smallest facial measure between these cities. It's become a waste of an organised industrial region, so when we read the goals of the establishment of organised industrial areas, it's a small production and repair and repair, trade, education, health fields, technology development, rational use of resources, use of information and IT technologies, a specific plan for the integration and development of industrial species within a specific plan and the development of these laws, in accordance with the proportions of approved land parts in the development plan, and they're saying that there are laws that are both administrative and social and technical infrastructures that have been transformed into a small state of Turkey, with small production and technical infrastructure. This republic is being given a new mandate. He really turned his flag into a missing republic. Although some of these 13 industrial areas are empty, there's not a shred of information on how to eliminate these organized industries, so there's an organized industrial zone in the center of the city, but it's random, and there's not a single clue as to how to remove it. The 5th article of this is the private legal personality that can or can be passed on for public benefit. The decision on public interest is made by the ministry following the application of the OSB delegation. The obligation to pay the land price for the ownership of the land is OSB's corporate personality. I mean, the government is making it public, but who's paying the price? Citizens in the OSB are paying. It was the right thing to do. But what is to be brought with this law? The OSB will pay for it, and the OSB's joint delegation will also make it public, so the citizens who are in the OSB will also make it public. Okay, so who's supposed to do the publicization, naturally? By the government. Why does it have to be done by the government? That is what Article 46 of the Constitution says. It says that under the title of publicisation, the state and state regulations are authorized to establish and to establish administrative altitudes in accordance with the needs of public interest, -- look, state and public corporate personalities -- in order to pay the real rewards in advance, all or some of the non-resistant property in private property, according to the basic and regulations shown by the law, and that's what you're saying, you're standing here against, you're saying, that the entire community of the OSBs is able to pay the money, at the same time, and we're not doing anything that's wrong, but it's already being done in violation of the Constitutional Law. This clause needs to be removed from here with our motion. It's really a faulty substance. Now, let's say he does publicize, he'll pay for the land. Here, again, there are recipes for how to pay for it in the Constitution, but there is no information on how and how the OSB entrepreneurs will pay for it. Look, the citizens won't be able to claim any rights in the land they've closed so cheaply. Of course, the court will say the path is open, but after years of trials... these will be publicized. They're going to market the land they bought for $20,000, $25,000, at higher prices than the citizens'. And there's no mention of how to pay a citizen. They're the owners, the citizens, who are also the victims here. At the beginning of my speech, I said, we've become an organized industrial dump. I'm telling you, there's a shortage of organised industrial areas in Turkey, and there's a problem, and they're just missing a flag. Look, apart from all municipal controls, there's no infrastructure control. Now, he laid the foundation for a factory called Posco, the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, and he is also the MP of Kopeli. There's not a single CED report. I went to that CED meeting. Here, the sewer will be provided by the Metropolitan Municipality, water will be provided by someone else, and the decontamination plant will again use the establishment of the existing organised industrial zone there. None of these are in any organized industrial districts, which are the most advanced organised industrial areas in Turkey, even though they are in our province of Marseilles, and there are so many flaws in these shortcomings, so I'm telling you that there is a flag missing, like the Vatican Republic, like the Vatican in Italy, that there are organised industrial regions in Turkey; the municipality can't intervene, and the districts can't intervene, and the governors can't intervene. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] - Give me a little more clearance. We've given the deed to Turkey to the Ministry of Urbanism, so give them that authority so we don't have anything! I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0355par0173	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0356par0176	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0355par0177	You have a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Chosener, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Köktur, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Young, Mr. Şeş, Mr. Öz, Mr. Onur, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Special Special, Mr. Eyidoğan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 20th article of the current Law proposal in 302 rows to the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Article 5 of Organised Industrial Areas No. 4562, dated 20-12/4/2000, has been changed in the following way. Article 5-The OSB is a private legal personality given by the Ministry on the application of the Institution Committee, which can or may not be able to act under the mandate of public benefit and borders. The cost of the ownership of the land and the obligation to pay the land price is OSB's corporate personality. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0357par0197	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0355par0198	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0358par0199	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0359par0200	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0355par0201	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to make matter more understandable. I submit to your votes the commission has passed, which the government has submitted: those who have agreed... those who have refused... the motion has been accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0360par0205	Mr. President, according to Article 60, I have a brief request for this clause, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0355par0206	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0360par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. The agreed clause shall be replaced by Article 5 of the Organised Industrial Territories Act. Organised industrial zones are a very unique model in the development of Turkish industry, taking on very large tasks, and all obstacles must be removed for the development of organised industrial areas. This idea may be arranged by action, but the regulation clearly contradicts Article 46 of the Constitution, as Mr. Haydar Akar said in the motion on the matter. Article 46 of the Constitution (the Constitution) states that the state and the public can do the formalisation. In Article 38 of the 1961 Constitution, the same sentence applies to the state and the public. Organised industrial areas are not a public corporate entity, and giving them the authority to state this is a clear violation of the Constitution's 46th Article. According to Article 5 of the Organised Industrial Territories Act, which is currently in effect, organised industrial areas are a private legal person who can or can be made public for the sake of public benefit. The lawmaker at the time designed it right, put it right, can be made public in his name. Who's gonna do it? The Ministry or other public officials. Now, this arrangement is being done with the intention of encouraging organised industrial areas, but it is not right to edit the Constitution's head in such a way that it is so contrary to it, Mr. President and the valued lawmakers, I present to you. You probably won't take my opinion into consideration, you'll admit it, but it'll be wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0361par0210	And then he...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0360par0211	No, the item will be voted now. Now, Mr. Elitaş will make a statement, state his public interest, possibly, and if you'll excuse me, I'll make another statement against him.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0362par0213	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0363par0215	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has just stated that this motion is a good-willed motion to clear the way for organised industrial areas, a violation of Constitutional amendments in Article 46 of the Constitution. In fact, the history of the incident is that we have given authority in the Organised Industrial Territories Act that organised industrial areas can nationalize on their own. Under this mandate, they have nationalised organised industrial areas, but the ongoing cases in an organised industrial region and now in some organised industrial areas, in accordance with the application of a case in a closed area in an organised industrial area, are not able to make such a public publicisation of organised industrial areas because it is clear in the 46th article of the State of the Constitution that some people are going to be able to publicize. Due to the work done by the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Commerce, and the top institutions of organised industrial areas, such an arrangement would remove barriers to publicisation and, in accordance with the decision made by the State Department, however, organised industrial zones would be able to publicize public policy if it were a private institution. I present to you the information of the esteemed MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the General Assembly of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0364par0219	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0365par0220	Mr. President, I have one more brief request, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0364par0221	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0365par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Group Vice President's statement is a confirmation of exactly what I said. The Supreme Court has said that it is not possible for organised industrial areas to be able to adopt the 46th Amendment of the Constitution, so the Court does not justify any other legislation, which is contrary to the 46th Article of the Constitution. It is not right to try to correct an application that the prosecutor finds against Article 46 of the Constitution. Also, it seems that the 5th Article of the Organised Industrial Territories Law did not give OSB powers to the OSBs, but was given such authority, I think, in practice perhaps, to the OSBs; it was given to the OSBs, to the administrative judiciary under that authority, and the State Department eventually cancelled this operation. Let's solve this problem, but it's not contrary to the Constitution. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0366par0226	Thank you. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 21 of the current 302 Orders Numbered Law proposal. In the matter, we would like to change the expression established by the "Organized Industrial Territories" to be changed into the "tested" and "to be replaced." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Aylin Nazlıaka Aydın Ayadın Levent Gök Ali Sarıbaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 21 of the current Law Proposal 302 from the text. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Does the Commission agree with the final motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0367par0242	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0366par0243	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0368par0244	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0369par0245	Dear scholar Light.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0366par0246	Dear scholar Light. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0370par0249	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 21 of the Law Proposal 302 that we are discussing. On this occasion, I salute you all again at a late hour. Dear lawmakers, the OSBs are really our pupils who have a very important place in both Turkey's employment and economics and exports. But I don't think that's the way to solve some of the problems, by creating a cover for past publicisation, when they have serious problems. I'd like to bring in many of the problems that the very well-known members of the Commission of Industry, Trade, Energy, Information and Technology are familiar with very closely, and discuss them more in detail on the commission, and also to express that there is no point in solving a problem with such a substance at this time of night, without the opinion of any member of the Commission, again at this time of night, without the opinion of a bag of the commission. Today, in our country, as of the end of 2011, there are about 240° OSBs -- a total of 147, including roads, drinking water, electricity and so on -- and 71 in 2012 -- and many of them have a few problems in common, although each of them has their own very special problems. In fact, I wish we could solve these problems. If only we could discuss the clauses in this bag of legislation that are the solution to these problems. For example, one of the most important problems that OSB executives have expressed in many places is that lost electricity costs have been loaded into OSBs. In certain parts of the country, people will not pay any price for electricity, you will bring the same amount of electricity that is smuggled into the OSB industry's entry costs, and you will spread equally to the population and to the head of electricity consumption in the region, and you will receive the money that is in these people's pockets. Let's figure this out. Let us not take from these people the lost fugitive cost used by others, proportionate to the amount of consumption in the OSB's electric meter. Second: there is a problem where significant amounts of participation are not collected. For example, it is one of the serious problems that TEİAS is not a partner in the OSB or that some other institutions and institutions do not share these accession costs. Taxes, such as workplaces, real estate, and so forth are collected by municipalities, but the OSBs bear the burden. On the other hand, municipalities or municipal private administrations are giving away hundreds of empty parcels in the OSBs, making way for the establishment of factories that should be established elsewhere in the OSBs. Let's find a solution here and stop them. On the other hand, the filling rate is very low, and there are also serious difficulties in the allocation of these expansion areas of the OSBs, which are in need of enlargement. In the new incentive system, there are three or four areas of difference between the OSBs of the two provinces adjacent to each other. For example, while Aksaray is in the fifth district of the OSB, the OSB will receive encouragement from the first district in Ankara's next-door district. Now, how are two OSBs 50 to 60 kilometers apart going to compete, compete? We need to figure this out. If we could at least arrange for the OSBs in the two neighbouring provinces to be in one or two different areas of encouragement, we would be able to support the OSBs that would not benefit from this new incentive system. There are serious problems with qualified personnel. Especially if we could make arrangements here to support vocational upper secondary schools or university of applied sciences in the OSB. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0371par0257	Dear Light, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 21 of the current 302 Orders Numbered Law proposal. In the matter, we would like to change the expression established by the "Organized Industrial Territories" to be changed into the "tested" and "to be replaced." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0372par0264	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0371par0265	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0373par0266	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0371par0267	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0374par0268	Mr. Aylin Nazliaka.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0371par0269	Mr. Nazlıaka, please.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0375par0271	Mr. President, my name is Aylin, my last name is Nazlıaka.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0371par0272	Is that so, sir? We usually call him by his last name, so I said Mr. Nazlıaka. Yes, ma'am.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0375par0274	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Some of our lawmakers, who have common sense about the bag of legislation that we're discussing, three days before the General Assembly closes, have made a statement. But I would like to present to you in particular the fact that such important laws are being discussed at this time of night in a non-profit working environment, as well as in the middle of the night, and while we're changing these laws, did you ask the NGOs, did you get their opinion, did you interview the academics, did you get their opinion? Do you think there's been a social consensus that you're bringing these items to the House agenda today? Of course, I'd like to remind you of that in a way that would once again invite you to think about it. Yes, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the 21st article of the law, the clause related to organised industrial areas, to the motion we made on this matter. Mr. Hatip has already expressed his opinion on the breach of Article 46 of the Constitution, and on behalf of the Republican People's Party, our Deputy Group President has also expressed his opinion. So, I'd like to point out from a slightly different perspective that organized industrial areas are currently involved. No doubt organised industrial areas are the lifeblood of our economy, creating a very important job, organised industrial areas, but unfortunately the growing inputs during the AKP period, and energy prices, high taxes, bureaucratic barriers and infrastructure deficits have tired the industry of the industry, valued lawmakers. In Turkey, industry is practically surrendered to imports of cheap interim goods. I want to give you an example of a better understanding of the problems the OSBs are experiencing in their own oil, and this example is right next to us, the problem of an organised industrial region 60 to 70km away from the Parliament, which is related to a problem in the capital of a country with the world's 17th largest economy. If such problems are happening in the capital, I'll leave you to appreciate what kind of problems there are in other cities. OSB, Ankara Industrial Chamber 2. OSB, Anatolian OSB, Mining Documentists, İhtisas OSB (OSB) connective routes are still unfinished. Our OSBs do not have a treatment facility. There is no doubt that the establishment of an OSB alone will cost a great deal of money. Our OSBs don't have the link collectors necessary to build a joint decontamination facility. We don't have network water in these more critical, industrial areas that I'm counting on. I also want to address the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor: Mr. Gökçek, please, let him stop dealing with abortions and artists and address Ankara's main problems. But last week, he himself gave us a criticism of the serious collapse in Ankara, and when he did the criticism, he gave us an adjective such as the idiot. Of course, it belongs to every sayer, and I don't think it's appropriate for a representative of the state. I do not find it appropriate for me to answer him in the same language, but I invite Mr. Gravity again to address the problems of the OSB. Now he may say that we have signed a protocol on the OSBs. However, unfortunately, it has been a year since signing this protocol, but this has not improved in a year's time, precious MPs. Now, I want to give you another example, but my time is running out, and I want to quickly talk about a problem with the POSB in Poland, which is that the POSB has signed a natural gas deal with the EPDK outside the mujavir field. The area of the OSB (OSB) area is included in the area of the mujavir. Because of my name, I need ten seconds of your time, and I've explained my name.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0376par0283	He won't, he won't. You go over there, you finish it, you tell it. He won't.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0377par0284	Here you go, sir. Finish it.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0375par0285	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0378par0287	Mr. President, have you given up?
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0377par0288	Your time is up, Mr. Nazliaka, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0378par0289	The system won't allow it.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0377par0290	Dear friends, I now submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0379par0291	I was going to tell you about something, but not for ten seconds...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0378par0293	The president gave it to me, but the system wouldn't allow it.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0377par0294	All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 21st article is accepted. In this way, the votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Congressmans, we will now begin the talks of the second section. The second part includes articles 22 and 42. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP. Mr. Wolf, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0380par0302	Mr. President, members of the Council of Ministers, I'm here to inform you that the Law Proposal No. 302...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0381par0303	Wait a minute, Mr. Kazim, wait a minute... don't start. Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0382par0305	Here you go. Gentlemen, please listen to the preacher, let's be quiet, please...
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0383par0307	Kazim Abi, wait.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0384par0308	Yes, I'll hold.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0382par0309	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0383par0310	Mr. President, stop the clock, let's wait.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0382par0311	All right, let's get it started.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0385par0312	Let's wait for friends to come out and go home. We'll go ahead and let them go.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0382par0313	Calm down, calm down... Mr. Wolf, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0386par0315	Mr. President, thank you. I've made a commitment to the second chapter. If our dear friends listen, I'll try to find out what we've done, what we've done, how we've done wrong. For one thing, whether the bag law is discussed as the basic law or not, we all need to see it very clearly when we look at the Civil Law. But why the rush? With this law, we amended 32 laws and discussed this change in 32 different laws in the Parliament as a fundamental law; this is a violation of the Civil Code; the Parliament must be a little more careful about it. Moreover, 23 of these 32 laws that we are now changing are laws made during the AKP era. So you've made the wrong law, you've made the wrong apps, and now we're trying to fix them with a bag of laws. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, although many of the laws in this department are relevant to different issues, a serious part of the following shows that an assessment of the University and Selection Centre should be made. Dear friends, there has never been a great deal of trouble in Turkey in university exams or in other public examinations, but unfortunately this has become a serious problem. Now, starting with this 22nd article, I'm going to try to evaluate the applications that we've started. For one thing, we bring different applications for controlling electricity distribution companies and electricity production companies. It reveals the contradiction of the law within itself. The 22nd article gives us the authority to do the work on improving, strengthening, expanding, and auditing of electricity distribution facilities, and the 29th article to a different location. What's the way to resolve this conflict, you have to evaluate it. Can the Energy Market Control Board not control it, but will the Ministry oversee it, or will the Ministry also privatise it by establishing a new company while overseeing this market? We need to have this discussion in this department. I consider all Turkey's contradictions to be quite, quite a feat, to be able to collect them in the same law, in the same bag. Again, in this episode, about the capital gas, maybe our friend will make a more detailed statement tomorrow, but you brought in the missing parts of it and put them in here. In particular, a serious problem is being resolved with this law, which has resulted in investors who have been assigned land by laws 4325 and 5084, especially because the economy has not been handled well recently, but because it cannot be resolved with this right and practical logic, it is once again revealed how wrong the incentive policies you have implemented so far have been. In particular, investment errors stemming from incentives and failure of the implementation system have caused Turkey to suffer a serious loss of national wealth and loss of employment. It's not only possible by the law that you've brought here today to collect this, to find the formula to collect it, because you can feel some investors trying to save, protect by reassigning themselves. The number of these companies is around 150, which we asked them who they were and who they were, but they weren't fully answered. My dear friends, in this law, some practices are intended to be brought to speed up judicial services, and some of the provisions of the Law of Debts are not implemented. Your authority, however, is busy eliminating judicial services, not speeding up judicial services. Hundreds of courts have been closed in Turkey, and the chances of judicial services accelerating in these closed courts have been eliminated. In both Eskişehir and our constituency, three courthouses are closed, and the number of those three closed courts is around 35,000. Congressmans, there are some new practices in this law that we must submit to the main assessment. One of them is in Article 36. An application that allows private vocational and technical schools to be established in organised industrial areas, and this opportunity, with some privatisations, will lead to a much different point of education that does not function properly. But does it really give him the formula for hiring at some point? There's no chance of a clear assessment. Again, I believe that in this department, the SNSM should be seriously evaluated and monitored because the test security in Turkey has been violated. The OSD that failed to ensure the safety of this test will now be making an effort to get this test to his private company, and we will see this practice here. Now, if we don't get a chance to prevent it, it's clear that no one's guaranteed test safety. Again, perhaps there is another exception to the Public Contraction Agency, which we try to make an exception to all laws and make a habit of. The entire operations of this company will be exempt from the Public Contraction Act, and the number of vice presidents of the Public Relations Agency, which has been slightly reduced in each law, has been increased from three to four. We're also dealing with this kind of weird app. Again, the process of avoiding the control of the Court, which you try to carry out in every period and every law, is also seriously raised in this department. You are revisiting and trying to regulate practices that will eliminate the possibility of the Court overseeing the administration. We consider that the law is only a correct approach at the point of eliminating payments on the purchase of criminal records, and I also say that questions about the testing system in Turkey should be re-examined by bringing up the questions asked about the recent police academy exams. I say that our friends will make the evaluation of the materials in this department, and that we will all be able to make this assessment together, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0387par0334	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The second speaker for the groups is Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0388par0338	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second part of the 302 law proposal. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, in this proposal of law, of course, in the second chapter, especially in 20 different kinds of articles, I'm going to make a point in these ten minutes of particularly important matters, and our friends will express more detailed opinions on other substances. This law proposes that the Department of Energy Ministry be authorized by the Energy Market Editing Agency to oversee the electricity equipment companies that need to be made. The ministry will be able to arrange this audit by providing services to audit companies that it will authorise institutions and institutions that have the expertise to take over, as well as public institutions and institutions that have the expertise. The regulatory and control duty of the Electric Market has been given to the EPDK according to legislation which is now in effect with the law. Therefore, it would be more accurate to strengthen and activate the Energy Market Editorial Institution in terms of control, but on the contrary, the actual audit of the institution is being removed from its control authority. This is definitely a wrong arrangement. In contrast, the privatisation of electricity distribution has not yielded the expected cheapness of the Electric Market Law, but has created the legal cover of transferring funds from consumers, which have cost money to distribution companies through electricity tariffs, service costs and other regulations. The consumer tariffs increased by 91% in housing subscribers from 2008-2011 to 85% in agricultural irrigation and low tension industry subscribers in the primary cities of development. In December 2007, when the electricity privatisation strategy began to be implemented from December 2007 to 2011, the distribution service price was 142 per cent, retail service price 155 per cent, and the public delivery service price increased by 124 per cent. During this period, inflation increased by 34 per cent, while distribution companies collected by up to 4 times more than inflation. If there is no electricity market index or electricity market index index each year, consumer prices must determine the price of electricity reduction by considering the index rate of change. In 2010, however, inflation took place at 6 per cent, while electricity cuts were increased by the EPDK by 68 per cent for 2011, transferring more than 55m lira from consumers to electricity companies. By the end of 2010, a large profit was provided for the distribution companies by raising the meter and the counterfeit price to $37 in 2011. For 2011, distribution companies used counter-pulling and counterfeiting costs as a means of sanctioning, and in a sense, they forced citizens to consent to the change of the subscriber. Electric distribution companies charged 102 million dollars for cutting electricity from 7,800,000 subscribers in 2010. The total number of times removed by electricity distribution companies by 2011 and May 2012 is 2,317,000. In place of these counters, $102 million has been collected from electricity subscribers at the price of the new counters. The number of missing fugitives in the distribution system was 5 per cent in Germany in 2009, 15 per cent in Turkey. The reduction of the number of missing fugitives has been cited as grounds for electrical privatisations, but as a result of privatisations, the loss rate of electricity has not dropped. Electric loss of power is 14.7 per cent in 2010. In 2011, the loss of transmission is 2 per cent of the missing fugitive rate is 16 per cent. The 2011 distribution is about 28 million megawatts an hour. In 2011, an additional amount of consumers -- please pay attention -- were collected at $3 billion and $300 million. When the honorable lawmakers looked at this proposal, they said the camel had a crooked neck, and the camel answered. I wonder if we have a friend who can call these arrangements right. Indeed, many of these substances are very difficult to defend. In line with the ability and potential of the disabled, the state must ensure that they develop, have equal opportunities, provide their economic and social well-being. In Turkey, however, some 8.5 million disabled citizens suffer from education, health, employment and transportation in all areas. The latest study on disabled citizens was carried out during the National Movement Party Government in 2002. Turkey's Retarded Research, conducted by the State Statistical Institute of Time in 2002, was identified in 2002 as the numerical state of obstacles in our country. According to the results of this study, 8 million, 432,000 disabled citizens live their lives as disabled citizens in our country. The ratio of this to the general population is 12.29 per cent. 36% of the disabled are illiterate, 77% are not part of the labour force. According to data from August 2011, the number of disabled citizens employed in public is 21,000, while the open disabled staff is 23,300. The empty disabled staff in the ministries established in the latest legislation is not included in these figures. Thus, the number of empty disabled staffs in the public is much higher. Again, as of the end of September 2011, the number of private sector businesses with a disabled quota deficit is 4.272. The Minister of Family and Social Policy said on December 16, 2011 that 20,000 disabled persons would be placed to work, while the same Undersecretary of the Ministry said on April 27, 2012 that 7,000 disabled people would be put to work. Mr. Secretary says 20 grand, Undersecretary puts it at 7,000. Again, Labour Minister Faruk Çelik announced on 4 April 2012 at the Assembly General Assembly that he would be placed to work on the OMSS exam with a disabled examination of 3.512 disabled persons. Thus, each official, each minister, makes his own statement. I'm calling from here to the government and the authorities, the responsible ministers. Please keep our promise to disabled citizens and place 20,000 disabled people in work. A seven-year period of study on the accessibility of disabled persons with Article 32 of this proposal is extended to one year and is extended to eight years on July 7, 2012. To make arrangements for the environmental and public transportation of the disabled with the interim 2nd and temporary 3th amendments of Law 5378. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the public institutions and municipalities have been given seven years. In the meantime, however, public institutions and municipalities have not done their duty. I hope to continue with this matter with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit04spe0389par0353	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Any other requests? No. Any requests on behalf of the individuals? No. Question-answer? No. The talks on chapter two are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-06-27sit05spe0389par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 302 from where we left off. The commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (June 28, 2012), the decision was made to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Thursday (June 28, 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
