tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, who wants to speak about Malatya being a capital city. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise that Malatya will become a capital city. Dear friends, Malatya's candidacy for the capital became a problem, and we worked hard to make it possible for my person and many of my dear fellow citizens, Malatya, to become a capital city. It's late, it's hard, but finally Malatya's on the list of cities to become a major city. We were going to take a breath of fresh air so we could get carried away. The AKP started winking at Malatian with capital city in one hand, with penalties in one hand. We'll make you a city, but we'll shut you down. We'll make you a city, but we'll take even the villages 150km away within the city limits. The short answer is Malatya. The question is, are there forty mules or forty lines? Know that by this law, a great village, not a great city, comes out of this law. According to AKP's new soup law, 1654 cities across Turkey will be closed, and 39 of them will belong to Malatya. The reason for this mind-blowing decision is unknown. It is not acceptable to make such a decision without asking the mayors, the locals, the parliament. Even if it was taken, it would not be legitimate, it would not be a public service. If you think about the time and the money to go to a village 100 miles from Malatya, you'll see that there's no profitable business. Dear friends, there's been a bulletin recently. The powers of elected mayors are being taken from them for five years. On April 18, 2009, when people went to the polls, it was said: "Pick up a mayor for five years." For five years, people were elected mayor, people were elected city council for five years, but a minister, who was not sure what was the product of the idea, published a general statement, saying that after this, municipalities -- you can't do any work at all. You can't do anything without permission from the governor from my governor. The national will has been violated by the vote of the people. It's impossible to recognize this sentence. This is where I tear up this district on behalf of our mayors in Malatya. I'm tearing it up, I'm leaving it here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, if this law passes, it won't be possible to take services to many of our cities, many of our counties. In Malatya, an Arabgir is 120 kilometers, Kulüncak is 116 kilometers, and Doğanyol Gökçe is 87 kilometers from the centre. Look, I want to give an example, an example that happened in Malatiah: Before we became a city, our township was wronged, and lied, and the inhabitants of Konak were deceived, and the people of Banaz were deceived, and the township was annulled. Now, there is still no proper service for the people of the host within a five-mile radius. You still can't see the look where their trash is being collected, the mansion, unfortunately, in the village view. If this law passes, villages dating back hundreds of years will be the neighborhood, historical cities will be destroyed. Again, I want to give you an example: our town of Hasançelebi was brought up in 1930 by the signature of Ataturk and Ismet Inönul. To remove the town of Hasançelebi, which has a longer history than many towns in Malatya, is also to destroy a date. If this law passes, friends, there will be great injustice in taxes. As much as the village of Doğanyol is paying taxes in the village of Koruntay, and the village of Arguvan, and the village of Arabgir, and the village of Suceyin, the people of Malatya, and the luxurious neighborhood, will pay the same tax. Dear friends, the village will continue to live in Malatya, but the people who will pay the city's taxes. It's unfair, it's unlawful, it's the greatest cruelty to a peasant. If this law passes, the villagers will no longer be able to farm, the villagers will be devastated. Before this law was passed, however, the meraks in Malatya began to be sold, and Malatya had no place left to sell but meras. My dear friends, the boundaries of the great city must be within a 20-30km radius. The municipalities outside this radius must not be touched, so the municipalities of the city must never be closed. Local governments must be strengthened and supported. No step should be taken in the villages to prevent agricultural production, and no mera should be sold. In addition, no district named Malatya shall be closed. Kulükak, Arguvan, Doğanyol, Kale must never be shut down. Now, I want to say something. Stop going in front of your noses, please take our suggestions seriously. We've done it, we've done it. The logic is not right, you have to stop now. Otherwise, the people in those towns will say the popular words of the last days, and they will say, 'Lan my son, go away.' I ask you to reconsider this law so that you don't hear it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Agha. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan (Iğdır) who wants to speak about the Boralan Border Gate. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0004par0026	Thank you. Reverend President, the esteemed MPs, as if the news of the martyrs in Turkey yesterday was not enough, we also began to receive news of the martyrs from Azerbaijan. The joy of Azerbaijan, expressed by our great Leader Ataturk, is our grief. I want to express that we share the pain of Azerbaijan on this painful day. Again, on the return to San Francisco, our President's Armenian opening is not dead, it is not over. We ask that our President reconsider his promise. Hopefully, our President, who will come to Iğdır....to-morrow....will not make a similar statement. Dear MPs, while PKK's attacks on our troops have been ongoing recently, PKK's extensions of universities have also continued their attacks on the country's students consciously and plannedly, and we are following this carefully. As the Justice and Development Party emptys every national concept, it tries to empty the interior of Igdir, who is with the National Movement Party. For the administration of the Justice and Development Party and its concerned ministers have not done anything until now, even though Iğdır had promised the Boralan Border Gate, which is the limit to three countries that have no other province of Turkey. Even worse, we see that the organised free industry, which was planned to be opened in Iğdır, along with the Boralan Border Gate, is being tried to be moved to other provinces, other countries, which have no borders on the three countries. We've warned the AKP over and over again from here, if you try to punish Iğdur like this, make sure that Iğdır will punish you as well as you did yesterday. Again, I would like to say that more than a hundred C2 documents in Iğdır have been cancelled by the AKP administration. Dear MPs, we celebrated Environmental Day yesterday, and I want to express one thing on this Environment Day: we have a beautiful association called Northern Nature in eastern Turkey. With the work of this association, with its contributions, the National Geographic team from the United States came to Iğdır, and we began to work for the international importance of two important bird heavens in Igdir. Two thirds of the current species of birds in Turkey are located in the Çyyyrıklı village of Tuzdır. This village -- our Forest and Water Minister -- is now in danger of making 302 species of birds, unfortunately. Minister, on Environmental Day, we would like you to make this promise that you will not invade the barren village of Igdır, one of Turkey's most important migration routes, one of the African-Avrusian migration routes, with HES. Likewise, the Blackwater reedy region of Iğdur is an international bird's paradise. But unfortunately, not only do you close the Boralan Border Gate in Iğdir, you not only take away our people's C2 documents, you don't own these two important bird heavens, which are the common value of the whole world. I hope, Minister of the Forest and Water Affairs Minister, that you will claim these two natural heavens of Igdir. It's not just yours, it's not just ours, it's an Iğdur. It's a world-class bird paradise. Imagine a place, one of the major migration routes in the world, two-thirds of the current number of birds in Turkey, and come and decide to make it HES. I don't believe this. You made one HES, and today the farmer of Iğdur is unable to water because of this HES in the paper, Mr. Minister, because of HES. And these are the days when farmers have to water. The farmer knows, and I'm a farmer's child, and if we don't do this watering these days, there's no good in Iğdur, and there's no good in those crops ever again. We've passed this on to your district manager over and over. Please, take care of it, and let him not take away the water he has no right to, that he has no right to, that he has no right to. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We didn't make a sound when those HESESTs were being made.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0004par0038	We said he'd do a normal study. But we see that it is necessary to oppose them, because they are taking the water out of my village's hands. Mr. Secretary, for your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. The third non-responsive statement is from Ankara MP Levent Gökil, who wants to talk about Ankara's problems. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have become the largest city in the Central Anatolian Region and the country's 2nd largest population in the period since Ankara took over its role and capitalism function in the declaration of the republic. Until 1975, he showed constant and decisive growth. This trend of growth has slowed since 1980. In our Ankara, there is no doubt that the foreign counties in particular face a very serious immigration problem. In almost all of our districts of Ankara, in the ten years since the AKP came to power, the foreign populations have nearly halved. For example, the population of Haymana district is from 55,000 to 32,000, the population of our district is from 59,000 to 36,000, the population of our town is from Nallıhan from 40,000 to 30,000, Ayash from 21,000 to 13,000, Bala from 39,000 to 18,000. It's possible to replicate the samples. The characteristics of all our counties are the same, and especially when their animalism and farming charms are lost, our people and peasants in the outer counties have taken their breath in Ankara, hoping to find work, but our citizens who have emigrated to Ankara have not been able to solve their business problems. For example, Haymana is an important district in Turkey and Ankara with 60 villages and 6 villages. However, some of the important institutions left Haymana, one by one, during the past year. Energy, for example, has been separated from Telekom, Military Branch, and Highway Haymana. Because of an electrical failure in Haymana, teams from Poletli or Lakehead will have to come or people will have to go here for a subscription. The housing problem is unresolved. Despite the promise of the highways, there are no double roads. Haymana is a town that has given the AKP's ruling power a very important vote. Another county, my dear friends, the Universe. Our universe county is about to be wiped off the map. The court in the Universe has been removed from service by the District Election Board, the Office of the Military Branch, TEDAS, Turkish Telekom, Kadastro, the Office of Earth Mahulları, the Office of the Agency. A hospital built last year in Evren district, unfortunately, a state hospital with thirty beds, I read the exact answer to a question motion by Mr. Minister: this decision has been made to be transferred to another institution on the grounds that it will be a launch capacity. Again, my dear friends, when we look at the town of Bala, we see the same problems. The twenty-bed hospital opened in Bala in 2011 and served under E1 status has been placed on E2 status last December. I mean, it's reduced to a position between the hospital and the clinic. My dear friends, these problems are the same in Koçhisar, the same in Polat. I'm a friend of yours who personally observed a recent trip to the village, where the roads of our Poletian and our Koçhisar were very out of repair and neglected. Moreover, from Koçhisar, even though our esteemed Minister, Ali Babacan, is from there, why do these services not go there, and it is really useful to discuss them? Dear MPs, these problems of our Ankara are taking place in the districts of our republic's capital, which are about 50 to 60km away from each of us. Education, culture, art and social activities have dropped from almost zero levels of development in foreign counties. Such a matter gives signals in a very serious way, urgently, and requires the necessary intervention. I, especially all of these foreign counties, I would like to warn your esteemed lawmakers, who have received more votes than any of the foreign counties I've told you about: it's good for you to go to these counties and find the problems in place. That's what we, the opposition, are saying, but it's your job to find solutions. With the increasingly small structure of the outer counties, our Ankara is about to become almost an empty city. I made a promise to draw attention to it. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0007par0057	Thank you, Mr. Sky. On behalf of the government, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu will respond to non-responsive remarks. Here you go, Mr. Eroglu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0008par0061	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all, sir. I've been specifically promised to respond to three of our valued MPs' non-responsibility conversations. Sir, I'll start with Malatya. Malatya, of course it's gonna be a big city. This is indeed great good news. As a city, of course, its own institutions, such as water sewage management in major cities, are going to have a huge increase in services. I'd like to make that very clear. Indeed, our government cares deeply about Malatya. So far, look, I've taken from some of the ministries of our government's investments in Malatya until the end of 2011. Our Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Transport, TOKI, Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, has invested a total investment of 3 billion 128,878 000 euros by the end of last year; it's really important. Now, so what have we done? Look, we have served Malatya a great deal in the past as the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and now as the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks for the development of Malatya. In Hakimhan, the watering of the Goodyurt Dam, the watering of the Arabgir Dam, the watering of the Darende Sofular Dam, the drilling of 11 wells, the studies of the Malatian Bolt Dam, all the channels of Akcadağ watering were restored. And right now, in Malatya, our Prime Minister will be arriving soon, opening three giant projects. Look, Malatya Kapkaya Dam is over. Our Prime Minister wants us to...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0009par0066	Once the canals are built, the channels...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0008par0067	I'll tell you about your networks, be patient, I'll tell you about it, I'll give you good news of it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0009par0068	Break Dam...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0008par0069	We also finished the Malatiah Boztepe Dam. Also, Project Bang, Derme and Circection watering is complete. These three giant openings are now ready. In Malatiah, we reformed twenty-four streams. I'm moving fast. Now, as for the ongoing work, Congressman, the Darende Skypinar watering is now under way, hopefully at the end of this year. In Malatya, we have offered the watering of the Kuruçay Boztepe Dam, the production contract has been held, and now it's started, which is...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0010par0073	Mr. Secretary, the water's full, but since the canal's not being built...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0008par0074	Okay, we're doing it now, construction's ongoing. The watering of Malatya Kapakaya Dam... look, 40,000 acres will be watered from here. All of it, look, the pipe system, we've turned it into a closed system, so let me summarize that. Previously on Projects...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0010par0076	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0008par0077	If you are patient, I will give good news to Malatya. We've turned 40,000 demarcation fields into closed systems. As a result, the contract was signed and the work continues on 20/1/2011. There's a $7 million grant this year. Reconstructions on the Malatya Yonca Project have been completed. The works of the Doğanşehir Willow Pond continue, six river reforms. Other than that, look, Congressman, there are a lot of projects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0011par0081	I didn't talk about it, but...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0008par0082	Look at us now in Malatya, and I'll give you the good news-- 10 of them...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0011par0083	The city of Belde has closed down...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0008par0084	I'll say it, let me. ...we're doing the levee and watering.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0011par0086	The clover dam... You can't wait. And if you remember, let's make Malatiah a green malatiah. We promised, and we keep our promise. I went to Malatiah many times. Look, right now, we've been working on 523, 250 acres -- so we've planted 43 million saplings. Look, he's going to be green. Was there a study in his temple? We started it. We've built a city forest, we've built two urban resting places, and there's so many... look, there's so many of them. I'm going fast, so you don't have to waste your time. We've set up seven automated weather observatorys. You've shut down the meteorology, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0012par0091	My Malatian citizen is all over the world.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0011par0092	You've shut down the Malatya Weather Department.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0012par0093	It's not a shutdown, it's an automatic weather station. Malatya Central, Arabgir, Balaban, Doğanşehir, Kale, Sultansuyu-TIGEM Erhaç Square, we have set up an automatic meteorological measuring station on 7 locations. Now, hopefully we'll build seven more. Look where? Arguvan, Battalgazi, Puturge, Darende, Hekimhan, Kulıncak, Yazhan, we will set up an automatic meteorological measuring station; so there is much to be done.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0011par0095	What about the clover dam, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0012par0096	In health... in national education, look, 1.733 classes are open. The Ministry of Transport... for God's sake, going to Malatya was a problem.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0011par0097	How many miles has it been?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0012par0098	Sir, look, the road was divided 258 kilometers by the end of last year. Was there such a thing, Malatya?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0011par0099	Look at the surrounding provinces; look at Elazig, look at Adıyaman.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0012par0100	6,886, TOKI... did you have TOKI? There are nearly 7,000 dwellings being built right now. The agricultural sector will grow much bigger with the greater city in the region, as part of the BELDES, and I particularly want to emphasize that. As for our other Regent, our precious Iğdır Regent, I took note of what they said. Congressman, let me make this brief: Of course, I have been to Iğdur, and I will still go. Because we promised the Dam of Fame. Work continues; it's one. Secondly, you know, there was a tremendous wind erosion in our December county. With my own eyes on him, we saved him by raising a magnificent even special bush called ebucehil. Of course, it is our duty to protect this bird heaven of yours. In addition, the water of the HESEs, the ancient water rights, the water needed to sustain life, will surely leave. I'm going to be his stalker, and I want to stress that in particular.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0013par0106	Do we have your word, Mr. Secretary, this bird heaven?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0012par0107	I'll look into it, I'll look into it. Of course, I'll look into it. After I've examined it, I think it's up to us to do it. Sir, for Ankara, I'd like to say a few words to our Deputy Ankara, Mr. Levent Gök. Of course, Ankara really is the capital; where did it come from in front of all of us? Of course, there's immigration in some counties, but now that we're moving...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0014par0109	Why are you closing this 39? Why are you closing 39?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0012par0110	I've just started Ankara. I'll tell you why it's closed.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0015par0111	Mr. Agha, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0012par0112	Now, we're doing a lot of river reforms in Ankara. In addition, we will do a lot of ponds and watering in Ankara under the scope of 1,000 ponds in a thousand days. Because people have to be employed where they are. We also live in Ankara, so that the state can live. The population, unfortunately, migrates to cities. Why? Because I want to give you some good news about our ponds, watering, even the private tree-planting. We're going to give all of Turkey's corrupt forest areas, or areas that belong to the treasure, to villages, citizens for forty-nine years, and here we've prepared the plans for walnuts, almonds, and I want to stress that in particular. Of course, in some very small places, roads and transportation are very good. It's really hard to find a doctor in some districts -- as the Minister of Health says -- because there are divided roads -- because they're developed, but it's possible to get to a full hospital in 15 or 20 minutes, because now there are roads, there are fast trains. In that respect, I think that should be considered. I think it's optimal for businesses to run all institutions. You've opened a hospital, from a doctor's point of view, if you build a hospital in every village, every small town, every county, then you don't have enough of your resources. Because they have 112 services, not just 112 services, but ambulance helicopters, as you know, ambulance planes, and I think they'll get our citizens to a full-fledged hospital as soon as possible. I salute you all with such feelings, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0016par0117	You didn't tell me 39.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0017par0118	Thank you, Mr. Eroglu. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0018par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. The problem with the mine, which is expected to be removed in Artvin province, continues. Yesterday, a CED meeting was asked to be held historically; the CED meeting, unfortunately, was called off in any way, without notice from the Environment County Directorate, without notices, without notices by the municipality, as if something was missing from somewhere, and yesterday's meeting with the CED have been cancelled, unfortunately -- because of security -- was necessary -- was cancelled a day earlier. I would like to point out that no matter what date you hold this meeting, we will not have this mine removed in Artvin. To those of you who want to get this out, I'd like to address this as the city's MP: Here, do this CED meeting again; for security reasons, we'll see if you're going to have that meeting or not. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0019par0127	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0020par0130	Mr. President, my promise is to the AKP government and its deputies. Ten years ago, we will fight against the curfews. Those who say, "We will not be allowed to strike the workers, we will not be able to bring an abortion ban on women." With full piracy and coup, you've achieved what the 12th of September couldn't do, defeating the airway workers' right to strike, signing the President in a hurry. You have directly interfered with the 18-month-old PITs, and now the contract is in the JHK. 305 workers were fired for resisting excessive labor, defending the right to strike. Were they not of the people who served in your campaign, calling the airline the public's way? Now, the public's flight safety has been seriously compromised. There's no flight safety left in lifting planes with employees he found operating in an extremely tense and tired environment. Tomorrow, the responsibility of accidents and the ban on plague strike will be on those who want to make slaves of workers. Recover the workers who have been expelled, the strike ban has been lifted.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0019par0132	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0021par0135	The Turkish Olympics, attended by a hundred and thirty-five countries, are held with great enthusiasm, and we are witnessing a full feast with its song, song, song, mehteri, extraordinary performances. Learning a language is learning a civilization, the key to the treasures of a culture. We'll see what those who walk through this door will do in the future. The breath of the Master opens like seven roses in a hundred and thirty-five lands, with thousands of servants, such as the Ahmet Yesevi dervishes, offering us a new Ottoman horizon with their hard work, effort, and service. Needless to say, what reflections are there in the hearts of Turkish songs, poems, which are read by students from Africa, Asia? A new world is now being built in our land. His tuition is being created by the new dervish veterans of this era. To be disturbed by these people who have waved Turkish language, Turkish culture and, of course, the Turkish flag in a hundred and thirty-five countries, is to be disturbed by the doors that open to us. The spirit - blowing service of a man of the heart attracts the reaction of strangers within us because it frees us from small strife and leads us to a great goal. These days, the Turkish Olympics have been a breath of happiness for all of us. There's not much to say.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0019par0137	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0022par0140	Thank you, Mayor. Retired General Teoman Koman was released earlier during the February 28th investigation, but was sent to prison after an appeal. Koman is the former Undersecretary of MIT. Koman is eighty-three years old. Hakan Fidan was also the Undersecretary of MIT, and when he was called to testify, the law was immediately passed. Didn't the Prime Minister give you permission to investigate these? So, how does this arrest work? Isn't the permit valid for pensioners from MIT? With the law passed, Emre Taner was saved and not summoned to testify, and Emre Bey was retired. We're waiting for the Prime Minister to make a statement about this. Also, while our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs is here, Istanbul is closed to northern Istanbul construction in the Environmental Order Plan. However, recently we understand that northern Istanbul will be established, and in this case, what about the water basins and water lakes in Istanbul's forests? Does the government and Istanbul have a program for this?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0023par0144	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0024par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, health is a form of spiritual, physical, social and political well-being. Its good form is scientific data that can best express itself in its native language. Last week, a Kurdish woman who applied to the health centre for her illness was rejected for speaking Turkish and speaking Kurdish, so she attempted to commit suicide from psychological destruction. May I present your attention. My respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0025par0151	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0026par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, there's a Ministry of Environment in this country. In 2012, Turkey ranked 109th in 132 countries in the World Environment Index. In 2010, our 77th country fell 32 places in just two years. Moreover, environmental scientists say Turkey's poor performance in nature protection has increasingly attracted the world's attention. When we consider that Turkey is one of the rare countries of the world in terms of biological wealth, our ranking in the Environment Index is very sad. There are many ways to protect the environment. One of them is recycling, which is extremely important for the preservation and efficient use of our natural resources. Imagine that 80 percent of the water used in a house is gray water from the bathroom and kitchen. Gray water can be saved by 50 percent of its recycling systems. Recycled water can also be used in irrigation fields, homes, reservoirs, such areas as these. Do you, therefore, plan to implement such recycling systems, especially in Istanbul, at the TOKI dwellings within your ministry?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0027par0159	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Drift...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0028par0162	Mr. President, thank you. It's no longer a dream for Malatya to be a great city, and I'd like to share it once again with the public that Malatya will become a great city in the reign of AK PARTI, and that those who don't know will learn. I also think that the opposition MP, who has no labour, no struggle to become a major city, should also know that Malatya is a major city today and that Malatya is a senior city and that Malatya is a late Ozal. And I also want to know that Malatya has a 30-year dream starting with the deceased Ozal. And it will be given to the AK PARTİ power to fulfill this dream, and that Malatya is opposed to being a major city by the talk he has made about becoming a capital city. And I am complaining to my Malatian citizens who will not only contribute to the city economy, but to it will also be divided into the city economy, and it will also be divided into a subdidivided by the subdivision of every municipality and the municipality.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0029par0166	Thank you, Mr. Çurk. Mr. Chandar...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0030par0169	Mr. President, thank you very much. This time, Bodrum City has joined the target of pressure on opposition municipalities that have been implemented in our country's tourism. The mayor and his staff have been in custody for some time. At the beginning of the season of tourism, the cancellations, the plane cancellations, the loss of these cancellations, where the local farmer sold three lira olives to compensate for this, where the roads of the shrine villages would be dealt with, rather than dealing with the problems with the peanut pine, we strongly condemn these pressures on opposition mayors, sir. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0031par0172	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0032par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, building control companies under Code 4708, which have been in our 19 pilot provinces since 2001, have spread throughout Turkey since 2011. However, with the changes in regulations over the past year, construction control companies working in this sector have been unable to properly control it. I invite the government and the government's minister to be sensitive to the problems of these companies and to solve the problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0033par0178	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0034par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, citizens from the village of Tillo, Adıyaman Gerger district, in Turkish are often called Lakeyurt. They're having trouble drinking water again this summer, just like every summer. With mules, they have to carry drinking water from unsanitary sources. Also, there are 33km of roads that are hard to drive in two and a half hours with Gerger. It's closed for a long time in winter. Now, while our honorary citizen and minister are here, I would like to ask that the Lakeyurt, the Tillo, do what it takes to solve this problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0035par0184	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0036par0187	Mr. President, I don't want to go into polymics under this Parliament with lawmakers of my own science, but the Congressman either didn't listen to me or he didn't understand that he was listening. I'm going to leave it to the public to see if it's from the size or ulterior motive. At the beginning of my speech, I said that I had advocated that Malatya would become a city, but not a great village. I'm asking the Malatians why they're willing to shut down which town, Congressman. We've been defending Malatya for years, but defending Malatya's rights is my responsibility to those who voted for me. In any case, I will continue to defend Malatya's rights. Who likes to close villages, who likes to close towns, I'd like to ask the Congressman here. I'm not complaining about me, I'm complaining about him to Malatya. I want you to know that I will never accept that Malatya is a village, that I will fight to the end here.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0035par0189	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0037par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a point to remind you that the dust pink painting the government has drawn is not like that at all. Last year cotton was $2 million, this year it was $1 million; last year the wheat was $660,000 lira; this year there is an increase between last year's urethra and this year's urethra at 30, 40 percent. There's a tremendous increase in gas prices. For example, DAP fertilizer is 1.5 million liras. Now, the farmers say that we can't sell our wheat, the office hasn't stepped in. Trader wants to drown too. Dervis Aydiz, a prominent farmer in Ceyhan district of Adana, called me. I'll sell my car, sell my house, sell my field. Cotton ain't worth nothing, wheat ain't worth nothing. This government is drawing pictures of dust and pink. The price of fertilizer has found the world. We can't buy fertilizer, we can't buy diesel, we can't plant our field. What are they talking about? He says, "How will this farmer buy these 2/B fields, treasured land, with what money?" Dervis Aydiz asks, please let the government answer.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0035par0194	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0038par0197	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, a serious melas was poured into the Sakarya River from the TİGEM enterprises in Eskişehir Mahmudiye, and in the last week very serious fish deaths have occurred and cannot be stopped. I wish your Ministry would make an immediate attempt on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0039par0200	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0040par0203	Mr. Minister, I have two demands from you as Congressman of the Footman, as our Home Minister. Gediz Tea and Ninesele Tea, you know, teas that need to be reformed and cleaned, because the canyon is the second largest canyon in the world, the Grand Canyon of Ulbey. It's very important that it can be opened to tourism from our point of view. We expect your support and your contribution in that regard. I also made a promise to the government to draw the attention of its officials that a pass from lawyer to judge was taken on May 6th. However, there are some doubts about this exam. The fact that two husband and wife have the same score shows that there are serious question marks on their websites. In this regard, I specifically request that the sensitivity be shown regarding this examination on May 6th.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0039par0205	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0041par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the land where I was born, Tuzluca County, has a dam romance of about 70 years, the Dam of Fame. It's been spoken of since I was a kid. Childhood's over, faculty's over, military's over, we're here; the Dam's still on the line. In 2006, DSI officials said there would be a tender; it was 2012. We'd appreciate it if you'd give us an answer on the subject, which is when the people of this region's love will end. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0042par0211	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0043par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank you on behalf of myself for making this promise with a minute, and it's really important. Another issue: The farmer is devastated by various disasters, such as the busy disaster in many parts of Asia Minor, such as the province of Tokat. This misery has become so devastating that by the time it reaches almost 100 percent of the products, most of them have been lost due to disasters. Therefore, the farmer asks that his debts be postponed. So they couldn't get product insurance because the product insurance isn't fully installed. At the point of support from the government, all farmers expect their debts to be postponed or at least some of them to be forgiven. That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0044par0218	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0045par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, 21 students from Hacettepe University Medical School have been taken into custody this morning. We know that the AKP government is in love with detaining all people who don't think like themselves, but this is the period of exams for these children. The detention of these children during this exam period will ruin these children's lives. I'd like to address the Minister of the Interior from here: the matter must be seized immediately and these children must be allowed to take the exams. Whatever it is, it can be solved later. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0046par0224	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0047par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, last year a postponement was made in Söke district of Aydın Province concerning farmers who suffered a terrible flood. It has been implemented that the debt of the damaged farmers be delayed by interest. This year, when cotton producers are being paid a bonus last year, a total of 1 million euros of about 500 farmers are being paid for more than one trillion liras and cut last year because you reported 30 per cent damage. These farmers have already suffered loss of quality and loss of goods. In this framework, even though their debts have been delayed by interest, cutting the premiums of 500 farmers has caused serious losses. We're expecting our Department of Agriculture's support on this.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0046par0229	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to reduce its dependence on energy use and explore the potential of our country's renewable energy sources, the Constitution is 98th in order to determine the measures needed to be taken. And the TBMM subcommittee 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, I respectfully request and request the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Kütahya]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] 7) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[Lug]] [[Ankara]] 14) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] 20) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 23) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] Today, energy has become the most important issue in the world. Because energy consumption is increasing day by day depending on technological development and population growth. The addiction to energy production has a negative effect on the prosperity and development of our country. Turkey is still dependent on outside oil, natural gas and quality coal. Thus, the highest price increases are constantly occurring in natural gas and oil products. The increases to these products are soon reflected at the cost of input into all production, particularly industrial products. Energy addiction also has a negative effect on the competitiveness of industry, and it also destabilises all economic balances. It is also true that price increases in energy inputs reduce exports and increase imports. In our country, about a fifth of the price of both oil and natural gas is tax. Turkey is among the most expensive energy-using countries in the world. Energy input prices must be lowered so that we can increase our competitiveness in the world markets. A frequent increase in oil, gas and electricity prices forces both producers and consumers in energy-dependent sectors in particular. In this regard, the energy issue of our country is of great interest to each family and each individual. Turkey has to develop its own internal resources to get rid of external dependency in products such as oil and natural gas. At the coming point today, Turkey must move from renewable energy sources to energy sources such as hydropower, wind, sun and geothermal to reach its prosperity level and improve its development as soon as possible. Our country has a very good climate belt and geographical position in terms of renewable energy sources. To turn this potential into an opportunity, our country's geographical position must be thoroughly studied. In which areas, solar energy, wind energy and geothermal energy should be identified and renewable energy sources should be used more effectively. Because even though food, housing, health, education, and employment are at the top of basic needs on earth from the past to today, energy is already in place among those needs today. Because energy is at the center of sustainable development, economic, social and environmental dimensions. Energy demand arises from the needs of industry, transportation, agriculture and social life. Therefore, in order to reduce dependence on energy, prosperity and development, our country's potential for renewable energy needs to be evaluated by research. This research proposal is designed to draw attention to our country's renewable energy sources. In this regard, our High Council is in great position. The Constitution is 98th in order for our High Council to carry out this mission. And the TBMM Charter 104 and 105. A Parliamentary Research Commission shall be established under the clause. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to determine the reasons for the problems related to the Black Sea Coast Road and the repeated floods, including the investigation of solution proposals and legal regulations for this measure. [[Let's go.]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] 8) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] 11) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 13) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Erzincan]] 22) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 23) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Niğde]] The Black Sea Coast Road is a project launched in 2007 with its shortcomings completed in about 20 years, which some call the Republic's Greatest Project, but continues to be discussed with political, economic and legal processes and most importantly environmental problems. The people of the Black Sea, one of our country's less developed regions, supported the construction of the road, despite warnings that the project would disrupt the ecological balance, block riverbeds from access to the sea, and cut off the sea from the coast at high prices. Because of the investment of 542km in roads, 6 counties, 63 districts, 17 cities, 2 airports and 9 ports would have achieved economic prosperity. 27km long 263 bridges, 41km long 12 single tube tunnels, 18.5km long 20 pairs of tubes tried to connect cities. In the beginning, $800 million cost was estimated at $4.2 billion of the road that was completed at an estimated cost, as well as the slaughter of nature. The only road to the coast, which did not cross the city center of our Army, has moved between the sea and our cities from the village of Gulya to the province of Artvin. The fact that cities are not destroyed by the sea, that the cliffs, that the coasts are protected, is repeatedly highlighted by the court's decisions and the experts in the matter. In fact, the Court's 2006 report, Planning and Control, reads: "A portion of the Black Sea Coast Road has been crossed over the old fillings, and for some, new fillings have been unplanned, and plans have been approved later. The roads of transport, located in the number 3621 Law, can be arranged in the area behind the land-direction approach border of the coastline. It has been determined that the decree has not been followed. No detailed research has been done prior to the construction of fillings on Black Sea Coast Road, no estimate of the amount of fillings in which areas will be done, nor of the environmental impacts. From fish species to microorganisms in the water, the project affected all species of life on the sea and on the coast. On the other hand, water raids are taking place that have caused major damage by preventing riverbeds from having natural access to the sea. Those who accept it as divine forget that we have prepared disasters with human hands. In the process of production, scientific studies have been cited as a provocateur for publishing reports, filing cancellation lawsuits, protesting warnings. In fact, more economic and natural projects have been prepared by our universities, but have not been considered. Projects, which the judiciary calls "inappropriate" to the public, have been carried out under the influence of the judiciary. The speed of the trial is slow next to the work machines, construction is finished, but the judicial process is not over. Environmental assessment analysis has yielded profits to construction companies, not to people in the Black Sea region, but to contractors, without social benefits analysis, without co-ordination with regional municipalities. Even the road routes have been decided by contractors. According to experts, the Black Sea has now become a linear city, and the worst has come to an irreversible stage. The law on the implementation of the coastal law is ignored, and the urban settlements are broken down and crossed by the sea. The Black Sea coast road represents a terrible mistake. This road, which has one side of the sea, has not only destroyed noses, coves, beaches, cliffs along the Black Sea coast, but has also attracted construction into a linear city between Samsun Sarp. And this project, which defies nature, is not suited to engineering or construction or urban planning. Particularly because of their wrong engineering plans, the city's central crossings are causing major damage to the city's centers, where the water that floods from the creeks is not able to reach the sea after the rains of the codes that run the way through the ground level of the city. Although the Black Sea region is the most rainy area in our country, this situation has come to light on its way to the coast, which has not been considered at all. The floods in our province of Giresun and the recent floods in our province of Rize show that as long as the road exists this way, it will continue to cause disasters. Experts say it is wrong to cross the road in high fillings in front of cities. They claim that this road should go through the rear of the settlements, but it is found to be expensive, and the coast is filled. It's that the sea filling is more expensive, and it's been explained repeatedly by experts that there's no way to evacuate high rain with the grid system. TMMOB will continue to cause floods, loss of lives and goods in all Black Sea Coast City cities, which have repeatedly brought up the wrongs and possible risks by all concerned professional rooms and sensitive areas. Also, deep cliffs and slopes are off balance, and the lands that have been tampered with with "Strength" are easily shifting and causing landslide. These conditions are being ignored, and the road is being repaired with a sea filling again. The alternatives to the Black Sea Coast Coast Road city crossings must be quickly projected, quickly removed the set between the cities and the Black Sea, and facilitated the access of rainwaters to the sea. If necessary measures are not taken, if the technical and engineering errors of the road are not discovered, it is likely that there will be casualties of life and property from Black Sea Coast Road, which turned our cities into dam lakes. A parliamentary investigation must be opened in order to take into consideration all these issues, to implement the necessary alternative projects, to investigate the problems and to determine the measures to be taken. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The villages of Van Ercish and Van Central districts suffered 7.2 earthquakes on 23 October 2011, followed by numerous aftershocks. On November 9, 2011, there was a second major earthquake of 5.6, with severe devastating effects, followed by another major earthquake of 5.2 in the region on November 15, 2011. In the turmoil following these earthquakes, there has been a major lack of coordination and the problem of distribution of benefits has arisen. In the second major earthquake of 5.6, after the first earthquake, several buildings were destroyed and 40 of our citizens were killed in the ruins of these buildings. In this context, in order to identify the people responsible for the damage detection of insensitivity, with the effects of extreme colds in the region, the Constitution of the 98th Amendment to solving the housing problem that threatens human health and is prone to major problems, and to address all the material, spiritual losses caused by the earthquake.It's the 104th of the 'Subject'. And 105.'I demand and demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened in accordance with Article III. [[Hakkari]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Pain]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] 13) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Hakkari]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] In the Van Central and Ercish districts and villages in the region of Ercish, history of October 23, 2011 had a devastating impact on the Van region of the 7.2-intensity earthquake that took place at 13.41 hours. Shortly after this disaster, ministers were present at the "Criminal Centre" of the Governorate and the relevant institutions of the state, representing the central government at the highest level, and were in post-flash administration. However, one of the most important local administrations in the province of Van has been prevented by the Governorate Crisis Center, where the Civil Society Organizations, the Offices of Occupation, have not been asked to join this Crisis Centre and therefore co-ordinated the problems of citizens after the disaster, and that the buildings that were damaged in the earthquake may be co-ordinated and assessed by joint work. Even if these unintended local governments in Crisis Management were working to address the problems of post-an earthquake citizens, they conducted these studies with their limited efforts, as they did not benefit from the resources and power of the central state. After the earthquake disaster, the need for "resolution" became the biggest problem, and the Redwood General Directorate, which holds the stockpile of tents, was late and inadequate in delivering tents. On the other hand, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay has expressed that his tent needs are above expected and that they have kept him waiting to see their own potential for help from abroad. Although 24 days have passed since the earthquake, it appears that many citizens are still miserable in their tenttails, and those who cannot buy tents are forced to build their own resources, and in these cold winter days, they are living in nylon tarps, which are very inadequate to warm up. Despite the amount of time, however, it is estimated that we still have citizens at the bottom of the cave-ins. Since the 5.6-lead earthquake occurred near the surface on November 9th, it was strongly felt, as a result of the collapse of 25 buildings in the Van center, two of which were hotels, and 40 of our citizens were killed. After the first earthquake, two hotels in 25 buildings were destroyed, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was seen not being examined by AFAD officials, so they stayed in these hotels and all the citizens who lost their lives died under the ruins of these hotels. With the November 9th earthquake in great chaos, the people of Van began to leave Van for fear of new earthquakes and destruction, and Van became a "ghost city. " 3. On 15 November, a third earthquake of 5.2, based in the village of Molakam, increased the negatives. After all these events, the ministers and even the Prime Minister, especially the governor of Van, did not take the problem seriously, despite the destruction. Instead of creating Crisis Management and co-ordinating all of the city's dynamics, they entered into an exclusionist position, eliminating BDP municipalities, and a political Ranta translation account of the drama of the Van people. In light of these events, what needs to be done is to learn from mistakes and to try to solve the problems created by the Van Earthquake with an overwhelming understanding of parties and effort, without eliminating local authorities. In order to address the problems of the next harsh winter conditions, containers to protect citizens from the cold in the short term need to be met with the most basic need for housing as well as permanent housing as soon as possible. It is imperative that a parliamentary investigation be opened before and after the earthquake to address the problems that have arisen. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'll have them read it and vote for you later: 05.06.2012 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Care: A. 01. 1. Watch out. Him. Oh. Oh. It's by O/259. The petition commission has also had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is favoured by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 25th Amendment of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0048par0418	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit01spe0046par0419	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the notice to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's enough to make a decision. Now we move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, group MPs Emine Gülter Tarhan, Yalova MP Muharrem Tüt and İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. We are starting talks on whether the foreign policy he is monitoring is free from the truth, claiming that it has damaged the country's security and interests, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu (11/12) is going to be asked to open a geneor on the agenda. The government is in place. Since the motion has been printed and distributed before and has been read in the 112th Union of the General Assembly, dated 29/5/2012, I do not reread it. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the motion will be promised this meeting, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I read the names of the members in question: Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı; İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kuruturk on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğul Türkesh on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; Antalya MP Ahmet Davutogoğlu on behalf of the government. Now, for the first word, the motion holder is Mersin MP Aytug Ater. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Horseman. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0049par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. I'll start by respectfully saluting the lawmakers who hold our national interests above their personal interests and ideological approaches. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what are the circumstances that drive us to give up the gene? Why did we prepare this gene? I'll tell you the last thing I'm gonna say. The Foreign Minister has put his ideological approaches above our national interests, has made our country a toy and a subcontractor of countries that have promised to support the AKP (AKP), and has humiliated our country many times by following unprincipled and incoherent foreign policy. That's why he shouldn't be sitting in that chair. Now, I'm going to go into some detail and try to explain to you why I was right about what I said. In fact, I wish I wasn't right. I want you to know that I did. In fact, the Foreign Minister has made it very clear that the United States of America, the United States of America, is in line with Turkey. What kind of conflict of interest is that? Are the interests of the blood spilled in Iraq in harmony with our national interests? What kind of national interest can we have in playing over Syria at the cost of turning Middle East into a pool of blood? Some of them may have ideological interests. We know very well that the United States of America will have no ideological interest in this geography. In its own interest, the United States, or the United States, has succeeded in speaking in a language that you can understand, with the ideological interests of the AKP. The United States and its supporters will provide financial and strategic gains by applauding it; the AKP will provide ideological gains in this country, in this geography. And that's what it's all about, and that's what makes us give up the gene. In fact, the interests of the United States and the interests of the AKP are incompatible, both sides are winning, but the loss is our country, unfortunately. So the Secretary of State must be removed from that seat immediately or removed properly. Now Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's words in Hitabeh to Youth make more sense. He says that even these ruling owners can express their personal interests with the political ambitions of the muslims. This is what we're going through today, I'm afraid. Our reputation in foreign policy has been reduced to the level that will be called by the Foreign Minister Obama with his index finger. Dear friends, the honorable Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey cannot be called by anyone with a finger move, and even if he is called, he will never leave, and if he is gone by accident, he will apologize to his people and resign. If not, then again the honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey will dismiss him. If that doesn't happen, it's a duty to give the Republican People's Party a gene. Now, I'd like to tell you in a few words that the Foreign Minister has caused the country financial damage, financial hardship. Mr. Secretary of State, what dwelling do you live in? How much do you pay for this dwelling? Who lives in the State Department's official residence? Mr. President is sitting down. Doesn't the president have a residence? Why doesn't he live in his own residence? And I'm not saying that by renting another dwelling, it's 47,000 lira a month, not year, you're taking 47000 Turkish liras out of orphans' throats and spending them in this dwelling, even though it's your own official residence. Dear lawmakers, let's look at some of our relations with our neighbors. Tell me a country, a neighbouring country so our foreign relations can be stable. Is there stability? I do. How? We're getting worse all the time. We're always following a foreign policy that's getting worse. We're going to watch zero problems. You said, unfortunately, we have zero neighbors now, zero neighbors who love us. Should I take Syria? Should I handle Iraq? Should I take Iran? Which one should I take? Everywhere I put my hand, I'm afraid there's a great deal of trouble. In Syria, Assad was your brother. You said, "My brother Assad"; and then, suddenly, he was Esed. You made a Joint Council of Ministers there, and then you went and shut down the Damascus Embassy, and then deported the Syrian Ambassador in Turkey. What's the motive, sir? The motive was to have a dictatorship there. Dear friends, even children laugh at your words. The regime in Syria has never changed, but it is now the regime, which was the father of Assad. The blood spilled in Syria is not confirmed by anyone. Violence in Syria is never acceptable to anyone who practices it. One more thing that cannot be accepted is that you were separated from a person you called "brother" yesterday by calling them "sisters" today. You said business, you said business will be good. You said business will be good. Now it's zero. We were not at the table in Iraq, we were at the wrong in Iraq; now we are at the Syrian table, we will make amends for this mistake. What do you mean by that? Are you saying we got revenge for the March 1st counter? Yeah, well, if that's the case, congratulations from here. I thought you were supposed to be an intermediary between Israel and Syria. There were two countries where we got along well, thanks to you, we became enemies with both of them. If that's what you call stability, yes, stability, but stability that's getting worse. You had to go through them and make sure and correct them, but you missed your chance. You know how you used to say, "Esat has missed the highway and is on a road that can't go back?" You're on the same road. Whatever you do now, you can't fix this foreign policy in any way. Why? You came out of this chair again, and you said: "There is a new order in the Middle East. We will be the owners of this order established in the Middle East. Didn't you or did you not say, "Open up," or did you not? Now, you've got your ambitions in front of your mind. Your ambition has blinded your eyes. You don't realize what a precipice you've dragged Turkey into, but we have to say these things and warn the Prime Minister. Because we love our country very much. Everyone now realizes the danger. Now everyone saw that you were eager to fight Syria. That's why, in order to keep our country out of the war, you must leave that seat immediately, so as not to do any more harm. As for Iran, you have allowed the establishment of a radar base belonging to the U.S.A., which protects Israel against Iran. We've had a lot of arguments; I won't be long here. You said NATO base, you deceived our people. Obama's out. It's our base. We'll hand it over to NATO. Yeah, well, don't you just come out and say you're sorry? I'm sorry, it was America's base, and now it's being transferred to NATO. You didn't say that either. You've deployed foreign soldiers there without permission from this Parliament, from the High Council. You have committed a constitutional offense, Mr. Secretary. In Iran, when you were supporting Iran in international talks on the nuclear programme? I thought you were with Iran. Now, all of a sudden, you began to apply the economic sanctions of the West to Iran. What countries, Armenia? Here you are, with the occupied Azerbaijan lands and the Karabakh problem, you went and did protocols with Armenia. If you haven't done it, you'll leave, you'll have 20 minutes here, you'll say I didn't do it. You've broken relations with Azerbaijan. In Iraq, you came to a cult representative wanted in Iraq, where you welcomed him. You invested it in GATA, so to speak, you did it in GATA. After that, you entrusted our border security to the United States. You slaughtered 34 of our citizens they pointed to. You want me to tell you about Cyprus? Here you go. Those who feed on Turkey cannot criticize Turkey. You are a representative of a diseased mentality. Thanks to you, Cyprus's policy has become completely unresolved. Libya? You received the Peace Prize, then you told the Prime Minister. I don't understand what kind of mood this is. And as if that wasn't enough, 15 or 20 days ago in the Foreign Affairs Commission, you signed an agreement to raise militias, not police, to raise militias. You want me to tell you about Israel? I don't know if Israel, who slaughtered nine of our citizens, who practiced inhumane practices in Gaza, apologized. If he apologized, I apologize for not knowing. That's why you have to get out of there, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0050par0041	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0049par0042	Who in God's name was throwing flares at us for entering the European Union? How did you trick people into throwing fireworks and entering the European Union? Why don't you get out of here and say sorry? It's no longer a goal of full membership in the European Union, the accession talks have stopped, you're still living in your imagination. Should I look at Egypt? You're just being ideological. You called the events that took place in Tahrir Square the same time in Tahrir Square the new regimes, the soldiers opened fire, and you kept silent. Why? Because you're ideological. Should I set an example of Sudan? You have hosted El Bashir in Turkey. This man was declared a murderer all over the world. Why? You've been ideological again. That's why you have to get out of that chair, get out of it, because you're hurting our country.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0051par0046	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Osman Taney Korkurk. Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0052par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Until recently, Turkey has been known as a stable state in its region and as a globally reassuring state; its identity, its belonging, its principles, its values, its foreign policy was perceived as a stable, respectable state. Turkish foreign policy prioritizes the results of initiatives, so Turkey would be careful to follow results-taking policies. He's interested in the developments around us; he's determined and applied our policy to influence these developments in our national interest, but we didn't directly intervene in matters that didn't belong to us. In particular, our neighbors, in the beginning, would not keep in line in the internal conflicts of the third countries, and we would not side with them. In this way, we were viewed as a large, dignified country, which had weight, constructive, reliable, attitude and policies in the region, which were adjudicated in disputes, although it had economic, political, military power, not by threatening and forcing it, but by using it as a soft force, and therefore with great weight, dignity. Today, Turkey has become a country that is rushed everywhere, anxious and concerned as if it is responsible for the solution to every problem, which has been exploited by others, who are eager to intervene in all matters. For this reason, Turkey has become a country in its own right to change its neighbours' regimes, which is not effective and unsecured, which is driven by countries in its region that do not want to get involved in thorny issues, that think out loud about everything, that may not be heard aloud, that may not be heard, that is not heard, that is not heard, and that is not very conciliative, and that is operating on this road. ▪ There are zero problems with neighbors. The policy is bankrupt, and there are no neighbors around whom we have no problems. Today, Turkey has been threatened by a section of its neighbours by others, claiming to have zero problems. Unfortunately, Mr. Professor Ahmet Davutoglu is responsible for this sad painting. That's what's really moving in our genome. Dear MPs, Mr. Davutoglu is a respected academic, he is surely well-informed in his field; he is a civilized, kind man, but as Secretary of State, unfortunately, he has never been successful at any level. He couldn't distinguish between his academic identity and the acting minister's identity, so mistakes and failures never stopped following him. The achievements and failures of foreign ministers affect their countries more clearly, more permanent and more vitally than most other ministries. As a matter of fact, Mr. Minister's execution has made Turkey, from the weighty position at the beginning of my words, a confused, disorganized, disorganized, aim of today's foreign policy, an unpredictable, and generally unreliable country. Foreign policy's theory is different, its application is different. Mr. Secretary, with his approach based on theoretical assumptions, he's gone after imaginary targets who have been cut off from reality. The fact that foreign environments have presented this course as a success on their own grounds -- in terms of amiyae -- has led the Minister to give him more gas and more speed to unnecessary and adventurous quests. An unfortunate vote by the United Nations Security Council has been seen as supporting Iran's nuclear policy as a result of Iran's efforts to intervene in order to develop an opening for Iran's nuclear policy in the direction the international community wishes. Nevertheless, the American early warning radar, which was deployed in the government's faulty policy against Syria and the Globecik, has also planted Iran in front of us. In this context, the Prime Minister and his delegation have had to pay Iran the most unsuccessful, sad, and humiliating foreign visit in recent years. The Minister's several other out-of-zone and regional initiatives have failed. As a matter of fact, there are no serious initiatives in which the Minister has received results. Our national problems have been neglected to try to solve other people's problems. The strategic depth, so to speak, has become a black hole. Despite this fact, it is very worrying that Mr. Davuoglu still does not accept any mistakes, that his policies continue to be true and in line with the interests of the country. While our foreign relations have made significant progress that directly concerns our country, Mr. Minister, Turkey has not given enough time to the Grand National Assembly and the Foreign Commission, and has not given the Parliament detailed information. In democratic parliamentary systems, however, it is a method that works in the best interest of the country, which has been regularly observed and has contributed to the creation of common lines between political parties in foreign policy. Dear friends, foreign policy has to be a national policy all over the world, so it must be carried out based on a national compromise in every serious country. The Minister has never sought a national compromise. There is no national consensus on the foreign policy the government is implementing today. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible for the Justice and Development Party. With this note history will record all the negatives that we've experienced -- including the decline of terrorism -- because of the wrong policies that have been implemented. Dear MPs, there are also serious problems in Mr. Davutoglu's relations with his institution. Yes, the improvements made by foreign workers on their rights, the fact that they have launched a new settlement for the Ministry and that the widespread use of advanced technology is one of the Minister's positive actions, but the major changes in the State Department's Law on the Agency's Law and the questions in their professional examinations raise serious concerns about the construction and future of this institution, which is based on elite and professional grounds. The increasing number of foreign ambassador appointments, hesitations about the merits of some of the ambassadors appointed by these appointments, the principles that have been found to be sought for new officials, transfers and promotions, and are being looked after, raise doubts about the ruling party's intentions. The Turkish Foreign Ministry is a very professional, well-grown, well-respected institution with a great reputation among its world counterparts, has been able to stay out of daily politics, and has the capacity to devote all its energy to the service of its country for seven days and 24 hours. We are concerned that the ministry's function is being pushed away from making ideas and contributing to policy-making in the Minister's era and is being directed towards providing logistical support and infrastructure services. We consider the developments I'm talking about and this new trend to the Ministry as a sign of the Justice and Development Party's efforts to establish a partisan sovereignty over the State Department. Unfortunately, the fact that the Minister has never answered any of the following questions raised by our MPs on this issue confirms our concerns. Dear lawmakers, changing the structure of the State Department's organization for partisans and ideological reasons can do a great deal of damage in this country in the long run. This ministry is a servant and representative of the state, the whole country and all of our people. Of course, the political decision will work according to the government's instructions, which is incumbent on authority and responsibility, but the protection and well-being of our country and our people throughout our republic is a prerequisite for our national interests to be kept out of the political influence of the State Department, which has always served as martyrs for international peace and stability. Dear lawmakers, I will also address the wrongs in our foreign policy. But first, I'd like to discuss a breach of the Constitution. We, the Republican People's Party, have stressed from the beginning that the Globecik radar is a US base, not a NATO facility. Mr. Davutoglu has always claimed otherwise, and despite our warnings, he has not told the public the truth. Months later, thanks to U.S. President Obama, at last, everyone learned that radar was really an American facility because of the request for the allocation of the radar to NATO. In this case, the constitutional dimension of the case of the Globecic comes to light. So we're asking now: why was the agreement signed with the United States on radar not submitted to Parliament's approval under Article 92 of our Constitution? By whose authority do American soldiers on the radar base serve on our land? Let me make it clear in advance that an explanation, according to Article 6 of Law 244, will not be sufficient to answer these questions. It is not a simple application agreement, but an important arrangement that concerns our national security in light of the threats of Russia and Iran. Even decisions made in the NATO Council, as in recent instances, Afghanistan and Libya, have evolved to be submitted to Parliamentary approval. However, it is clear that there is no NATO decision for the Globek. As to the extent of our national security, the government, who participated in the vote on the missile shield at the NATO summit in Lisbon on November 20, 2010, did not have to establish a warning radar in our country because of its participation. Persistent foreign policy required that our neighbors would hear a serious threat from such radar in the country and develop policies against us and not agree to the deployment of facilities within the NATO missile shield system in Turkey. Knowing that Iran and Russia would definitely object, the AKP government should be able to convince our allies that radar should be deployed to another NATO country. What kind of shortsightedness is it, my friends, to cause increased and diversified threats on our country when we're trying to ensure its safety? Dear MPs, Turkey's unilateral stance on Syria has deepened the violence spiral in this neighbouring country. The massacre we all condemn in Hula will not be erased from memory. On this side of the border, our people, our tradesman, have suffered economically and socially in our provinces from Mardin to Mersin. Also, as I briefly pointed out up there, the government's faulty Syrian policy has led to the provocation of terror in Turkey by this country, causing terrorism to escalate in our country. This matter must not be overlooked. Mr. Davutoglu, acting on international law and good neighbourly principles, instead of trying to operate internal dialogue mechanisms in Syria, has brought our country to the brink of war under the direction of the outside environments. When will Ankara stop following a policy based on the direction of Washington and European conservatives in the intervention of Syria, which the United Nations offers and avoids giving strong support to the Annan Plan, which the Arab League supports? The solution proposals of our party, which from the very beginning opposes the violence of the Syrian regime against its own people, who say that only the Syrian people can decide their country's future, support the movement of freedom and democracy that excludes violence in this country, are, unfortunately, turned down by the Justice and Development Party's government. At the most needed time, our country's diplomatic ties with Syria were also severed, leaving intelligence and communications tools in the hands of the media. The government's Syrian policy is wrong, and the Iraqi policy is full of mistakes. As a result of this policy, Turkey has been reduced to a country that has been implicated in Iraq's internal affairs, accused of hostility by the entity and the Iraqi Prime Minister himself. It is appropriate to establish good relations with Kurdistan Regional Management. However, exclusion of Baghdad upsets the internal balance of Iraq. Wrong policies led to the burning of the Turkish flag in Basra, and threatening Turkish companies with boycotts. Why has Turkey been constantly stressing neighbouring Iraq for the past few years, when we have been able to maintain Iraq's stability, territorial integrity and national unity, and to have equal relations with all the groups in the country, in line with the politics that our country initially followed? What does Mr. Davutoglu conclude when questioning the causes of this fragile situation in Iraq? Where does sectarianism come from? Mr. President, valued lawmakers, it seems one of the things that the Foreign Minister is most fond of is giving everyone a lesson in intelligence and democracy in Arab countries. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister how many arrested MPs, dozens of senior officers and hundreds of students from our Armed Forces are in prison, the judiciary is not independent, the women are constantly humiliated, the calls of all people are monitored, the widespread unemployment is under way, the acts of terrorism and violence are under way, and the OECD is in a better life index, and the party's party can't stop us from building the state of Sivas at the city convention. On top of that, I'd also like him to explain to the minister what he meant by establishing another state when there was a respected Republic of Turkey, a modern, dynamic, secular and democratic republic that was set up eighty years ago. Does the Minister think about how the Arab countries will perceive these conversations when he talks about forming the state of Chihan and becoming the owner of the Middle East, the leader and the servant? Mr. Secretary, when he tells these and Arab countries that we are going to be models, he must realize that these countries need neither the model nor the owner nor the servant, but have no such quests. There's not much point in being popular in the Arab streets by being anti-Israeli. Mr. Davutoglu will soon learn from his experience that democracy will not come to Arab countries with commandful, arrogant and threatening rhetoric and that he will drive the Arabs away from us. Each Arab country will choose its own path in accordance with its own quality and needs. To think that they might need an external change process is the most disrespectful to the Arab people. We also have unhealthy relations with Palestine. Turkey, which is expected to contribute to the unity of the Palestinian people, has had a negative impact on Palestinian solidarity with a policy that favours Hamas. Our relations with Israel have been corrupted by the mutual mistakes of the parties, and as a result, Turkey has been pushed out of the Middle East peace process. Turkey, the region's most important force, is a strategic loss in its efforts to resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict, peace and stability of the region. Mr. Foreign Minister, who has cost the lives of our citizens and has yet to apologize to Israel, has also suffered a political and legal defeat in the international plan and the Palmer Report, which the United Nations has personally provoked its writing. Today, Israel cooperates with the Greek Cypriot administration and Greece, seizing oil and gas sources in the eastern Mediterranean, while Turkey watches the situation, except for a few steps to show. On the other hand, the impact of our broken relations with Israel on the United States and on our ties with Europe is also ignored. The AKP government, which follows policy on regional issues in the US, boasts good relations with Washington. But in fact, the fact is that since the AKP is guarding the one-way interests of America's energy resources in the region, the parties are on a temporary honeymoon. However, Turkey's interests in the region are more comprehensive. On the basis of equality, bilateral relationships that are not based on permanent common interests and values are doomed to be fragile. This is also true of current Turkish-American relations. As the Republican People's Party, we desire permanent cooperation and mutual solidarity, based on equality and respect with the United States. These are the basic conditions of a healthy and lasting relationship. For this, Turkey and the United States must surely focus on maintaining and caring for each other's common interests in the region based on equality and mutual respect. Have the dangers of becoming so dependent on natural gas and now nuclear energy before Russia, who has declared serious discomfort with the spherical radar and has made veiled threats? Let us know that Russia is a country capable of making radical decisions in foreign policy. The history of Turkish-Russian relations is also full of lessons in this direction. With that respect, it is vital that our ties with Russia remain in a careful balance. The failed administration of Armenia's opening brought our relations with Armenia further back, and damaged our strong ties with Azerbaijan. The Armenian claims are well established on the agenda of the international public, especially the United States and Europe, due to insufficient policies followed by the ruling party. If necessary measures are not taken by us, the Armenian issue could cause Turkey a great deal of trouble in the context of political, legal and compensation demands. I'd like to draw the attention of the Supreme Assembly that 2015 may be a breaking point. Dear friends, Cyprus remains unresolved. The AKP government's view of the KKTC is wrong. The government sees and behaves not as an independent state, but as a unit of its own. In this environment, the Greek Cypriots are guiding the Cyprus issue, and Turkey is merely following a reactive policy. He, too, has left the wrong one step ahead of the policy of counting, which is even more dangerous today. Despite the Minister's commitments to this road, problems continue with Greece and the Aegean, and the problems with the Turkish minority in Western Thrace continue. Let's not forget that the problems of the Aegean are a conflict with the potential to bring sides to conflict at any moment. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are now known to the world that the ruling party has no such goal as full membership in the European Union. Our ministers have joined hands, driving our country away from its goal of full membership in the EU every day. There is only one reason for this estrangement and reluctance: EU membership requires adopting and implementing the basic values of modern civilization, such as democracy, rule of law, human rights, gender equality, basic freedoms, union rights and, most importantly, secularism. However, the ruling party and its ministers seek the golden age of Turkey, not in the universal and modern civilization, but among the ruins of the past. Mr. Davutoglu is the flag of this quest.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0053par0092	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0052par0094	Honourable MPs, the state of jihan, which Mr. Davutoglu, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, has declared to be the leader of change in the Middle East, are turning into an enemy country in the eyes of its neighbours. It endangers our foreign policy security, regional activity, and our international reputation. Foreign policy theory is not an area where you can display your fantasies and fantasies, where you can try to live them. Every mistake that is made will surely come back and the entire nation will pay for it. Turkey's foreign policy must be saved from its stalemate and weakness. The acceptance of our client will be a first step in that direction. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0053par0097	Thank you, Mr. Korutk. Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0054par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my speech, I salute the High Council. I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the People's Party for Foreign Affairs Group on the charge of political responsibility for failures that jeopardize the country's security and damage the country's interests. First of all, Mr. Davutoglu, as Secretary of State, I would certainly not wish that such a gene should be dealt with. However, the interests of the state of the Republic of Turkey are above all institutions and individuals. So if there's a mistake -- and I think there's a chain of heavy wrongs -- it has to be compensated and done. Mr. Davutoglu's thesis of zero problems with the neighbors he originally brought up was, in fact, tempting and exciting for many at first. Because peace was inspired by the wisdom of peace in the world, which Ataturk had marked at the time. I hope that all political parties under the roof of Turkey's Grand National Assembly aim to ensure that Turkey is a well-respected state in its region and in the world. Although Mr. Davutoglu tried to weave the paradigm of strategic depth, although he was fed by some delusional elements, he could certainly contribute to the use of this high purpose in flesh and bone. It is also true that some concrete steps have been taken in this framework at one time, and I accept that with peace and quietness. For example, from 2002 to 2009, a close relationship began with the region's countries. Under the leadership of Mr. Davutoglu, a peace and trade basin was specifically intended for the region, such as the Benelux model in the establishment of Syria and Iran and the European Union. A warm relationship with Syria, Iran, Egypt, Libya, and Libya was developed. At that time, the AKP was able to publicly defend Iraq's territorial integrity -- even at the level of expression. Our dialogue with Israel was so good that Turkey was shown as the only address for resolving the conflict between them and Syria. Talks had begun for full membership in the European Union, moving at full speed. The West was convinced that Turkey would finally become a modern democracy. And there were no mistakes? Of course I did, a lot. Even at the cost of tension with our own brother Azerbaijan, the protocol was signed with Armenia. The rights of the Turkishmen population in Iraq were ignored, their freedoms were not defended. Turkish hostility, which constitutes the core of the internal policy, has made the impact of all of us outside. Actions to corrode our pupil, the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus have been driven. The statements were made, and the statements were made against the person of the deceased Rauf Denktas. In light of the data, the AKP's foreign policy, considered gray, was to set fire to the bottomless wells, while the main event that pushed zero blacks, a Tunisian youth, Muhammad Bouazizi (Muhammad Bouazizi)'s body. Mr. Davutoglu was an Arab boy who destroyed his book on brick thick, his academic articles, his heated speeches, his pragmatism, which was showered with compliments by all, into ashes. Isn't that sad? An entire vision is gone. Peace has replaced foreign intervention, stability, chaos, order, anarchy. As of today, anyone that Prime Minister Erdogan shook his hand between 2002 and 2009 was either captured and put in cages for the alleged sake of the "democracy" or still wanted to be killed. However, until the Arab Spring, Turkey did not expect general democratisation in the region, although it was not shared publicly. Besides, I don't find it genuine that Mr. Davutoglu is hiding behind this so-called proof of democracy. Are there still more oppressive and authoritarian regimes than Tunisia, Egypt? Why have other regions, especially oil - rich monarchical structures, been ignored by the boasted and boasted wind of democracy? These questions must be asked. There's obviously been an provocation. In this sense, NATO's immediate involvement in the military plan when the rebellion that began in Tunisia and then spread through the domino effect was blocked in Libya. At the first moment, we also remember that those who came out in front of the press were involved in the operation with their lives as a result of closed-door talks. In this context, of course, it's important to compare the geography of the Arab Spring phenomenon with the map of the energy basins in those areas. When we do the comparison, we see that the state of the Republic of Turkey has not looted any natural resources, and has not attempted to exploit them like any other major invasive countries. So for the AKP, the spoils of the Arab Spring are not in the material plan, but in another area. So, what is this area? Which one is it? The policy of zero problems with the neighbours designed by Mr. Davutoglu was broken down in 2010 by public riots that took place throughout the Middle East and the Moorish countries, followed by a complete collapse in Syria. The crack we face today is the question of whether there are zero problems with the neighboring people or zero problems with the neighbouring regimes. Through recent developments, we can see that Mr. Davutoglu's problem was the politics of zero problems to be established in those geographys, which will be responsible for underground activities so far. This element must be addressed. At this point, the first free elections in Tunisia, the parliament in Egypt, and the first round of presidential elections in Egypt, were the same formation. In the newly formed Libya, Syria, the central focus alone is the same block. Are all these details simply coincidences? I think it's incredibly hard to think like that, guys. The leading figures of this organization have stated that they will protect freedoms, especially in countries where they have declared existence after the Arab Spring. And I'm going to share something with you on this occasion as a crucial note. One of the elite figures of the organization in Tunisia was held under the roof of Democracy and Islam Ethics Center in Washington, where John McCain and Joe Lieberman said to meet in Damascus next year during a talk he made during his visit to the camps in Hatay in May 2011. Those who want to know about this can and will find out who this person is. Isn't that interesting? So what you're saying is that what you're reading in the daily media, when you get to the bottom of it, you see two very different paintings. Apparently, according to new conditions in the Middle East, the task attributed to Turkey is a scarecrow, a shield. To fulfill Western desires in this region, a country needed to adopt a spiritual mission, which became Turkey, as part of its historical roots and heritage. Now, in the presence of the Grand Assembly, Mr. Davutoglu, how can you justify a period in your conscience when the state of the Republic of Turkey's foreign policy is co-directed with large, small international NGOs? Is that possible? This question must be answered in front of our nation by your side. If you'll excuse me, I'll put aside this aspect of the matter and continue to talk about other faces. Turkey has troubled relations with almost all its neighbours today. The formal relations with Syria, as well as the cold and threatening rhetoric between Iran and Turkey, have weakened Turkey's southern line. Relations with Iraq are certainly extremely fragile. Let it not be forgotten that as we fight directly with Syria and Iran, the state of the Republic of Turkey is also indirectly opposed to Russia and the People's Republic of China. The missile shield, located in the sphere, mentioned earlier valuable speakers - has led Russia and Iran to activate defence systems against our state. It is also noted that foreign affairs officials and high-ranking officials in the countries are making aggressive statements against Turkey through the press. In addition, while the global economic crisis has even begun to force huge sizes and there are millions of unemployed inside, and with an economy that is constantly on edge with our current deficit, is it possible to reason with Mr. Davutoglu's battle trumpets? It is also said that aid to Syrian refugees has exceeded $150m in spending so far in the Turkish camps. Is the figure covered by the national budget, or have allied countries in the region been asked to contribute? Does the financing and logistics of the resistance movement in Syria have to meet ordinary people of our country, such as electricity or natural gas, with various increases? Today, the AKP threatens the country's integrity as part of Arab Spring, while also precludes a so-called state structure in the northern part of the country. The reason is very simple; the AKP has formed an alliance with Barzani. The AKP's government, which has begun to focus on the PKK, is outside Barzani, and within it are many questions for him to enter arm in arm with foreignly imported extras who are so moderately approaching the issue, but who advocate as much destructive as the PKK. Let me be very clear, we're following your ball of smoky relationships, and you should know that we've written everything down in every detail. Members of parliament, at this point today, unfortunately the state of the Republic of Turkey is trying to create an impression that there is no case left called Cyprus. Indeed, Mr. Davutoglu considers Cyprus a problem, not a case. There are so many different and unrelated issues in the classroom, which the AKP has called national issues, that our truly national cause, Cyprus, thus dehumanizes and neutralizes it. AKP's national issues are spreading so wide that the concept is being emptied on this occasion. According to this, Gaza was promoted to a national issue in Damascus, Baghdad, Cairo, Tripoli, Tunisia, and Cyprus. We're getting some reports from people who are known for their proximity to power. There is a saying that if a positive outcome arises from Israel's certain activities in the south of Cyprus along with the Greek Cypriot administration -- oil, natural gas -- which I don't see as a possibility, but it is said -- Turkey could go to an agreement with the Greek Cypriot administration, and Cyprus would not be a so-called headache. Another option is that the state of the Republic of Turkey will withdraw in exchange for one or two military bases on the island of Cyprus. I leave it to our great nation. In connection with Cyprus, I also criticise Mr. Davutoglu around Turkish politics. A multi-directional foreign policy related to the Turkish world should be internalized. In the last nine years, that's not what we've seen. How sad it is that relations with the Turkish world don't work out. On the contrary, we witness the absence of a foreign policy that will not break the bonds of our historical roots, but will strengthen them and consolidate them. I tell our AKP friends that the Turkish world deserves much more than the participation of the Turkish Olympic event at the Prime Minister, Minister or MP level every year. We don't tell you to do that. We don't tell you, of course, to join them, to go, to cry, to cry, we have nothing to say to them, but we need more attention to the Turkish world; Uzbekistan needs more attention, Kazakhstan needs attention, Kyrgyztan needs attention. The AKP's total disregard for Central Asia's geography, which will witness global forces' power struggle in the coming years, the failure and even stopping of TİKA's activities in this region, is deeply incompatible with the strategic interests of our state. I want to make it clear that the Turkish world feels abandoned by Turkey today. It would be more appropriate for the Balkans to prioritize on this geography, rather than the African expansion that we are behind until the end, which is unscheduled by the power, but unscheduled by the government. I can't even refer to Turkey-EU relations as we approach 2015, to the government's impregnacy and instability, to the ups and downs that have been experienced with the United States, and to my limited time of hostility between us and some countries in our region. At these points, but the view is the same, it's miserable. On 26 April 2012, instead of informing the Supreme Assembly about Syrian policy, we were overly impressed by Mr. Davutoglu's behavior as the National Movement Party -- who spoke in a way that I did not describe to him in such a harsh way as to scold the opposition -- why he is doing this, whether he is aware of the mistakes he's made, or the internal calculations he's making -- which, of course, I don't know about them -- without respect, tolerance and democratic ethics. I couldn't make sense of the way Mr. Davutoglu, whom I knew of his kindness, his sensibility, put his attitude against us that day, and I'll make it clear to you on my own. Members of parliament, on top of everything else, everyone knows today that the AKP has created a coalition within itself. In national education and the Ministry of Interior, ideas and actions have changed completely with every new minister. Three ministers, three performances in national education. I hope that without a foreign minister's change, Foreign Affairs will really come to a national and more serious line that will meet Turkey's needs. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0055par0126	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0056par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge from the Peace and Democracy Party Group. I salute you all. Are we really having problems with our foreign policy, is Parliament in control of them? Is foreign policy the problem of a party, the problem of a government, even a majority, or the problem of all parties? Is foreign policy above parties? Is foreign policy based on emotional, hissy, anger, and day-to-day pragmatism, or is a truly radical foreign policy tradition developed? When we're looking for answers to these questions, let me be clear, we're having a situation with all the neighbors from zero to problem. This can also lead to misdirection because of the interests of the areas in which power, the government, the wrong policy, the wrong philosophical approach, the wrong foreign policy, and the changes in the region and world balances. When we look at it like this, I want to make a few headlines. Let me start at the beginning. The Greek Cypriots will be representatives of the European Union next term, and our relations are bad. I'm starting from Antioch to Habur. Syria is an event of its own. I'd like to talk to him in a little bit more detail. Iraq: We have a border to Iraq from Habur (Habur) to Shemdin). Something very serious is going on in Iraq, my friends. Even in the Shii-Sunni Arab conflict, 100 people die a day, over 1 million people die, there are human rights violations, and there are serious problems in Iraq with Shii Arabs, Sunni Arabs and Kurdistan Region, but there are also problems with it. There is a problem between Iran and Balacik Malatiah, to the point of Israel, to the point of İncirlik. There's trouble with Armenia, and we're coming, and I'd like to express in one word the problem with the European Union in foreign policy, as a friend of yours who's been in the European Union a lot of international law: my impression of Brussels, Strasbourg, Turkey-European Union relations are over. I'm not saying it's blocked; it's finished, it's been frozen for four years. It's been over for four years, it's frozen, it's frozen, it's freedom, it's justice, it's justice, even the title -- maybe 23 -- and if it can't be moved to the meeting, there's a very serious crisis, which is a reflection of the mistakes we've made in foreign policy, in national policy. What's going on? It's actually very easy to explain. In Turkey, the most journalists in the world will have prisoners, if you become one of the world's most journalists, your relations with the European Union will be broken, your membership will be questioned if you become one of the most defence lawyers in the world, your membership will be questioned if you become one of the most arrested, your membership will be questioned if you become one of the most arrested, your membership will be questioned again if you become one of the most political prisoners in the world. So the global crisis, the European Union, Europe, needs us. The conjunctural is growing in our favor, and Turkey is growing stronger in these developments, and its role is increasing. We're strong, they need us. The energy pipes will always flow over us to Europe, we'll warm them up, our light bulb will light them up. If you say, well, that's where you lost it, my friends. Foreign policy doesn't do that because your world imports, 60 percent of your exports were with these countries, the number it's now falling down to is 41 percent friends in the 41 percent, 41 percent in the 41 per cent. I don't count it in the field of law, in the field of human rights, in the field of democracy, and in the field of economics, there's this transformation, there's a decline. The crisis triggers Islamophobia, anti-Islamic racism, and itching racism, and what politicians in Turkey need to do in the face of forming a group in the European Parliament, is not to feed on the same thoughts as they do, and to look at them, to do as they do. If the Turkish, Islam, establish politics on a Hanefi-style approach, and you take this policy to foreign policy, you'll bring it to a very different point. Again, when we entered the last public debate, it was said that indeed foreign policy said that Turkey had been dragged into a very serious adventure in Syria, into a swamp. What's all this? War contractors can sometimes win the industry, my friends. Look, in Libya, Gaddafi fell, and they took over 338 companies. Our ministers are driving my truck through Libya to save nine of our companies. I thought the suitcase and the money were gone. So we were against NATO, and then we attacked with NATO, and we overpowered Gaddafi. What happened to our companies out there? Look, it's a question mark, make a note of it. So war contractors don't always win. He was appointed trustee to 338 companies. Again, I want to draw a lot of attention to religious conflicts and media sectors. You can control the national media, but you'll never, never have a chance to control international media. That's the downside of foreign policy for you. There are also colleagues of the media members who work in the national field that you address, insult, hurt, and insult, who would never, ever value the foreign policy of a policy that works internationally and acts like that to their own member. They care about your press as much as you do. There's a very dangerous dimension to this, and I'd like to remind you of that. You can be utopian in foreign policy, you can have ideals, Neo-Osman, you may want to expand with the imperial spirit again, but when you bring this, your own wishes, your own utopias, your own idealism into foreign policy in the fate of a country, you're alone. Now, that's a problem. After these points, I'd like to get into some Syrian stuff. A few things I'd like to talk about with a little bit of weight. Look, there was an explosion on May 10. I'm told it's a Qaedeli job. There was a Hula massacre; 108 civilians died. The Annan Plan is shaking. The opposition says that this is what the Shahbiha forces have done. Here, I warn power from here: there is no Shebbiha politics in foreign policy, my friends. Shepbiha politics never happens in foreign policy, because diplomacy has rules, it has experiences. What does Ban Ki-moon say? His administration, Russia, says that the United Nations should be informed differently, and at the same time he condemns the massacre of Mr. Prime Minister Hula. If in Hula, you defend human rights, law, and you can't live out of what you defended in Hula, if you don't live in a tragedy of your citizens, where F-16 fighter planes are dropping bombs in your own country, then your foreign policy will fail, too, my friends. Again, I want to make another point: The refugees have arrived, up to 47 thousand; they have landed, now 30,000. There were MPs in Antioch. And from Hatay, ye have built cities in order, even unto Yayedag, and unto Reyhan, and unto Apadim, and unto that which is in order. The prefabricates were wonderful; we appreciate it, we congratulate you, and you set them up very quickly. So, for God's sake, why did you fail in the Van earthquake? Why did you fail in the Van earthquake? Same dwelling, same opportunity, same thing. But if there's a soldier in there, and he crosses the border once in a while, and he comes back with a gun, well, it's a little bit of a war between the two countries. It's very dangerous and very, very dangerous. Again, Mr. Atalay announced the expenses made for those from Syria: 150 million... not 150 million, friends, many more. From the budget, where did we do that? I don't know what pen it's made of. Friends will be paid for Syria's national alliance, and Turkey is among the paying countries. Before you go through this House, you're giving money from the budget to the citizen, based on what authority and law. Again, there are different sections in Syria. Within these different sections, Arabs, Nusayris, other than the Sunnis, Kurds, Süryanians, Armenians, again, Shia groups... now, in such a balance, when you think that Syria is taking a power from Lebanon to Iran, a government that corresponds to 50-50 percent of the opposition equation, you have to calculate what it will do to Turkey, and what it takes to do with the world scale of this ruling opposition equation, when you look at it as a force behind Iran, China and Russia, and what that power has taken behind it, and what you're going to do with it, in the Middle East, from Iraq to Iran to Iran and Iran. In Iraq, you'd be aching for a disaster that killed 1 million people. Again, there is a Kurdish population in Syria, about 10 -3 million percent. What was done to them was no different than the massacres of Hama, Hummus, and the massacres in the days of Saddam. They took their identity, and said, "You are Ecnebi." They seized their land, seized their property, and were constantly crushed under the boots of the Baas regime. But if one of the 20 Kurdish parties in the opposition coalition today is not participating in Istanbul, they are not participating because of the wrongs in foreign policy. There was a spring in Turkey-Syrian relations. Assad came, and our Prime Minister spoke, and went about, and went to the closed market. One day in the Plan and Budget Commission, I said, "Friends, this conversation won't go away." Believe me, 15 of the members of the EC PARTY came at us. Ya, you're jealous. Ya, I'm not jealous, brother. I know this Baas regime. What did he do to his citizen in the past? It's going to do the same, and it's not going to last. They came at me, but it turns out it's different. Whoever the Prime Minister kissed, and Assad is one of them, Mubarak, Gaddafi, is going after each other. So in this foreign policy, you shift from brotherhood to enemy axis. Now, here you will establish the Syrian National Council for democratic Syria, not only will there be Kurds in it, but you will be against Kurds there. Does your politics, foreign policy have to be based on racism? Why are you taking such a hostile approach to Kurds in foreign policy? Why do you think the Kurds in Syria started from Cizre, from Derik, from Tirbespi, from Afrin, all the way to Aleppo, all the way up to Ankara, all the way across the border... where do you get the sense of making a buffer zone? Of course, if you're thinking about building a base all the way up to the Kurdish mountains of Cebel El Ekrad -- which is famous in Syria -- it's not a right foreign policy, my friend. This is Pargalı after the Sultan of the Great Century. You take your armies as Pargalı. You go to Syria. You take foreign policy. That's the foreign policy that's being implemented right now. You go and conquer like Pargalı, and you come and you say, "It's been conquered." Don't mess around with tampon zones like that. That happens in movies, not in real life, my friends. Again, the Bezar Assad administration and AKP administration have great similarities: they deny Kurdish identity, their language, the AK PARTI too; they forbid the name of the village, the AK PARTI insists; they do not allow the opposition, and the EC PARTI doesn't allow the Kurdish people to have the same hostility, and the Arabisation policy continues. Now, after all this, I'd like to finish by referring to these two words of the Secretary of State. This is actually the basic philosophy of foreign policy. It says this is the 100th year of our exit from the Middle East. Wherever we have lost from 1911 to 1923, whatever land we have withdrawn from, between 2011 and 23 - in the 100th year - we will meet again in that land. This is a mandatory historical mission. Mr. Secretary of State, we received this speech from a meeting in Kayseri. If you go, if you start a war across the border, we're not behind you, go on your own, don't come forward trusting us; we're telling you clearly. Again, your words in the Konya County Congress are terrifying, philosophically terrifying, in terms of the development of foreign policy in terms of political terms: (EACH PARTI is not a conjunctural movement, but the birth of a global force in the historic march of our beloved nation, the mission of a new legal world case. What is this, a conquest? Go to Vienna, my brother, for the mighty Solomon stood at the gates. There's the gates of Vienna, there's the Danube, there's Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria... a process where the Arab Spring rises, the peoples stand up, the ideal of equality and freedom, but you will conquer the world with the spirit of conquest. Turkey's foreign policy should know that this racist fascist understanding, nationalist understanding is being tried in the Second World War of the Nürnberg courts as a war criminal. Haven't you learned anything from history, recent history? As of the age of most of you, the AK PARTIES have seen that process. I won't go any further, but your Sunni Islamic Synthesis thesis is disastrous, discrimination, racism; I'm not saying it's radical religion.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0057par0154	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0056par0156	Mr. President, thank you. If you develop foreign policy on the Sunni Islamic thesis, you will also take my brother, the brothers of Nusayri, and my brothers in Syria, and the Alekis in Turkey, and your brothers in Kerkukuk and Kurdmen in Turkey. You say we've lived together in history for a thousand years, but you haven't understood anything from that date. You can set up your national policy in a racist way on the Sunni Islamic thesis, but foreign policy never. It's wrong, it's dangerous, it's adventure, it's drifting into the swamp. If you want to do a bad thing to Turkey, you can put it into a war every ten years, you can fight a country in Syria or Iraq or Iran, and it won't be able to recover for 50 years. You pay, you put taxes on American weapons here, you get it from the citizen. We don't have a single vote for that kind of foreign policy, folks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're very clear, we don't approve of such foreign policy and we express our opposition. We make it clear that we're going to vote against it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0058par0162	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0056par0163	We're not against it, so we want you to know that we're voting in favor of the gene.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0058par0165	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Antalya MP Mevlüt Sergeant. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0168	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you first. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the motion by the Republican People's Party against our Foreign Minister, Mr Ahmet Davutoglu. Dear friends, when we look at the content of your gene, it's really crudely prepared, and when we look at the charges, it's clear that there are allegations and accusations that never match the facts, therefore, that are far from the facts of Turkey and the realities of the world. Therefore, it is not possible for us to agree to this motion for a gene question. Dear friends, first of all, you have to see the change in Turkish foreign policy, you have to observe it. Of course, we may have a difference of vision with the opposition, we may have a difference of opinion, and of course we'll have a difference of practice, but how can we ignore the changes in Turkish foreign policy over the last decade? In fact, the change is not only in Turkish foreign policy; today, for the past 20 years, there has been radical change in the world, and there have been serious changes in the region in which Turkey has been based in the centre of Turkey in recent years. Those who adapt to these changes have survived, but those who do not see this change, those who do not renew their policies, those who do not strengthen their country, those who cannot take precautions, have also failed. Look, I'll give you two examples: today the European Union is struggling with crisis. Not only is the European Union struggling with the economic crisis, the European Union today has failed to achieve deep integration. In the same way, the European Union has also experienced major deviations in its enlargement policy today, a unity that does not know what to do. Why? Because the European Union has not seen this institutional change, it has failed to take its precautions, and it does not have a leadership to take those measures, I'm afraid. Likewise, when we look at countries in neighbouring regions today, Arab Bahar and I see together how the regimes that so far ignore the democratic demands of the people, which are unable to adapt to change, have been destroyed, but Turkey, thankfully, has seen this change, has done this analysis. With the power of the EC PARTY, Turkey has seen and taken measures under the leadership of our Prime Minister. Therefore, Turkey is one of the world's largest growing economies today. On the other hand, dear friends, Turkey is one of the largest steps towards democratisation, becoming a law state, and strengthening its social structure. And Turkey has begun to become a very effective country, with its strong economy and social structure and, on the other hand, by strengthening its foreign policy in this way, and Turkey has especially used its power to strengthen and strengthen its relations with bilateral countries. Today, when we look at bilateral relations, Turkey has lifted visas with more than 60 countries, and we see together how their economic relationship with these countries is strengthened, the figures say this.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0060par0176	What countries?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0177	In the same way, Turkey has improved its foreign trade with only neighbouring countries today. In 2002, our trade with the neighbors was only 8 per cent of our total foreign trade volume, and today it's up to 32 per cent, the numbers say that. So, dear friends, of course, with this strong structure of Turkey to strengthen bilateral relations, on the one hand the strengthening of democracy and the strengthening of its economy have become an active, proactive foreign policy and a respected and effective country in international organisations. Today, dear friends, when we look at it, we can criticize Turkey's European Union process today, and we can also criticize the European Union's stance. Well, hasn't a country that's been at the door of the European Union for 50 years taken a date of talks from the European Union in 2004 and started negotiations in 2005? Unfortunately, we all know why the negotiations are slow today, dear friends, but we can't. Isn't it because of Cyprus? Because of our upright stance on Cyprus and on other matters, the European Union -- like Merkel, who lost the election again -- has been a setback in their relationship because of the attitude of their country and its leaders, or it is not a step back from our attitude or our determination. We believe in this process. On the other hand, dear friends, you're saying: "Turkey's reputation has weakened." So, in 2009, for 2009 and 2010, how many votes were Turkey elected to the United Nations Security Council 47 years later? With 152 votes. With the support of 152 dignitaries of the world's member states. About, what does that mean? It is supported by eight of every 10 countries. What happened to Turkey's reputation being weakened? I thought Turkey was an unloved country. So when you say that, you need to be a little more knowing and careful. We used to brag about giving NATO only soldiers, the country that has the most troops since the United States of America. But we're in the political wing today, we're in the decision-making mechanisms. For the first time, he is the assistant secretary general of a Turkish NATO.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0061par0181	In exchange for Rasmussen...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0182	On the other hand, we call it Islam. We call it a country mostly Muslim. We call it the Islamic Conference Organization, but its former name is the Islamic Conference Organization. Today, for the first time in our time, the Secretary General of Islamic Co-operation became Turk and was re-elected and we have a diplomat at the head of the institution for preventing chemical weapons. So, my dear friends, what kind of country was Turkey until 2004 on the Council of Europe, where I am honored to be president for two years? It was a country under control, treated second-class for lack of human rights in democracy. But thanks to the Parliament's -- we passed those laws with the People's Party of the Republic -- and our government's reforms and successful policies, Turkey was released from control in June 2004, and for the first time in its history, a Turk, for the first time in sixty-three years, made president of this Muslim institution.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0062par0184	They've been inside for five years, not guilty. What justice are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0185	On the other hand, at the same time, Turkey chaired the Council of Ministers' Committee of the European Council, and Mr. Davutoglu, our Minister, has successfully conducted its presidency and has contributed greatly to the Council of Europe's reform, especially the European Court of Human Rights, thanks to his successful work in six months. Again, as chairman of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, Tunisia has given huge support to many countries, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, to countries in need of help. Again, dear friends, with the recommendation of our Minister for Minister for Foreign Affairs for the fight against increasing racism in Europe, their report, "Live Together in Europe in the 21st century," has now become the European Council's campaign. Therefore, it has left permanent marks, and in the same way, the convention on women's violence or women's protection from violence and preventing domestic violence has been prepared, the first signatory country is Turkey, and the first country to approve is Turkey with your support, dear friends. So when we look at it today, we see together how effective it is in all international organisations where Turkey is a member. Dear friends, Turkey used to be a helpless country, had economic crises, and waited at the IMF gate, but thankfully today Turkey is no longer a aiding country. Turkey is a country that helps, a donor country that helps. Last year, Turkey has made 1.5 billion dollars a year. On the one hand, cash helps many countries, such as Somalia, on the other hand, build schools all over the world through TİKA, build hospitals, bring water to villages, help our sister countries. So we need to see very well where Turkey is coming from, and we need to analyze it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0063par0188	People live in tents at minus 20 degrees in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0189	On the other hand, Turkey no longer waits at the IMF gate. He also paid the $23.5 billion debt to the IMF and dropped it to 1.7 billion. And in April of next year, hopefully, we'll settle that debt.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0064par0190	What about the other debts?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0191	Dear friends, of course, we have not neglected our relatives, citizens, relatives, and brothers abroad as we carried out these policies. So far, we've gone to the non-Turkish Ahiska Turks, we've found them, and we've passed the law to return them to Georgia, and now we're doing the necessary work.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0064par0192	If you don't know, don't the people know about the Ahiska Turks, Mevlüt Bey? What a shame.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0193	Again, we were with the Crimean Tatars who were exiled, and there was no one before us until today. And they've returned before, dear friends, but they have no home, no school, no mosque. We did all of this and we're doing it, dear friends. We're with the Gagavuz Turks. In the Balkans, we are with those Turkish brothers and sisters that Ottomans planted in the Balkans, and we are with our Muslim brothers. We're here for all of them.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0065par0195	Gagavuz are not Muslims.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0196	Dear friends, for the first time today, our citizens who live abroad are allowed to vote in our time. In the previous election, unfortunately, the Supreme Election Board called it off, but together, by taking the necessary measures, by enhancing additional laws, we've all solved this together. I'd like to say, dear friends, that our citizens abroad are proud and proud of the passport they now carry, the country, the increasing Turkish lira and the Prime Minister. And he's always proud and appreciative of the Precious Minister who runs this active foreign policy. We need to see this, too. Dear friends, now that we're looking at the charges, what is it, sir, that Turkey has taken command of America? So what's wrong with Turkey's strategic partnership with America since it was founded from the beginning? There's no mistake. Is it appropriate to be partnered with Obama today? That's right. America's effort to cooperate with a country like Turkey today is actually a sign of Turkey's power, but as you say, Turkey does not say yes to everything America wants today. Look, you say Syria, Syria. Who opposed this work in 2003 when we took steps to improve relations with Syria? Israel and America. Israel and America were our allies at the time, but despite their opposition, we took these steps and strengthened our relations with Syria. In the same way, after Iran and the agreement on the prevention of nuclear weapons, who used the opposite vote at the United Nations Security Council against the sanctions against Iran, even though America wanted it? Turkey and Brazil. So let's not give Turkey such unnecessary metaphors, and we must all support the strengthening of Turkey's relations with America, its friendship with the United States. Now, with Iran, of course, we're good neighbors of nuclear weapons and other things, we're objective, we're not biased, but do we have to agree with Iran's policy in Iraq today, the policy he's following in Syria today, the policy he's trying to follow in Bahrain? On the contrary, we will, of course, oppose policies that we do not accept, and we will, of course, promote our relations with Iran in mutual interest, but despite all that, Iran's desire to negotiate nuclear weapons in Istanbul, Turkey, Turkey is a sign of confidence in Turkey's neutrality, dear friends. Dear friends, now you say that relations with Israel have weakened and defamed. Well, Israel was our ally. Would we condone the massacre in Gaza, in terms of good relations with Israel?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0066par0201	What did you do if you didn't condone it?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0067par0202	Why don't you make him apologize?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0203	And would we, my dear friends, allow ourselves to be attacked by the Blue Marmara, where our citizens have been slaughtered again? Today, I'm afraid...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0067par0204	You have such a good relationship, make him apologize!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0205	Dear friends, of course we will mend relations with Israel, but our condition is clear: Israel will apologize. We clearly say this everywhere, and our attitude is the same.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0067par0206	We're asking why you can't do it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0207	As for the matter of Armenia, dear friends, they used to accuse us of so - called genocide, and we used to say, "We didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it." For the first time during the AK PARTI period, at that time, Turkey was attacked by a decision in parliament by co-operating with the Republican People's Party, and for the first time, our Prime Minister offered to set up a commission, and Armenia avoided this offer, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0068par0208	That's the first time I've said that in 2001.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0059par0209	Mr. President, there's been bullying all morning, I'm afraid you haven't warned me. This creates an extremely disrespectful and low-level environment. We listened to friends with respect. Could you please warn me?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0069par0210	Go ahead, continue your conversation.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0070par0211	None of this is true!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0071par0212	You're throwing without backup!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0213	Thank you, Mr. President, for your neutral administration. Dear friends, we have signed a protocol with Armenia. Have we approved this protocol from the House? We were all on the same line. What was our condition? The occupied brother of Ermenistan will be withdrawn from Azerbaijan's land and a solution will come to Karabağ. Otherwise we won't do it. We said, "We won't sign." We said, "We won't approve."
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0073par0215	There was not a word in your agreement, not a word in protocol!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0216	And there is no clause in the bilateral agreement with the third country, but in the presence of five foreign ministers that day, Mr. Foreign Minister Davutoglu accepted it from Armenia through serious initiatives and diplomatic efforts. But then, with the pressure of diaspora and the extremists inside, Armenia couldn't approve of this protocol, and it didn't leave the occupied land. As a result, we did not approve of the protocol with Armenia because we had declared it from the beginning. Have there been attempts in Turkey and Azerbaijan, and elsewhere, to disrupt our relations with Azerbaijan? Has the conflict been attempted? Yeah.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0073par0217	Who threw the flags away?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0218	In the end, however, Azerbaijan and Azerbaijan President Aliyev also saw the facts. He himself told me that during our official visit to him as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that he had seen the truth and that other friends other than Turkey -- his friend -- and his brother -- were not in the process. Now, dear friends, now our attitude toward Iraq has been evident from the beginning. From the very beginning, we believe in the border integrity of Iraq, and we say so.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0074par0220	Pray to the American soldiers, the girls have been raped well!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0221	In the same way, we said that Iraq's resources should be used by everyone -- without discrimination and ethnic groups -- through all ethnic groups living in Iraq. We want stability in Iraq, we want confidence in Iraq. Friends at the Republican People's Party know that we invited all political parties in Iraq to Turkey through our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including Arab, Kurdish, Sunni, Shii and Turkmen without realizing it...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0075par0223	Don't put Turkmen at the end, that's where the problem comes out, first count Turkmen.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0224	...in both the Republican People's Party and the AK PARTY, how to make politics, how to form parties, how to organize them, we've told them together equally, dear friends. Therefore, there is no way for us to discriminate. But today, of course, we will oppose the religious policy in Iraq, and of course, it is not for us to support the religious policy there.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0076par0225	Why did you invite Iyad Allavi?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0226	Now, dear friends, look at the accusations, sir: we are in conflict with the vision of Ataturk in the country of peace, and it says that our zero-problem policy with the neighbors who are a regional or specific example of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Dear friends, this is completely unreal. Look, I'll tell you why it's unreal. Of course, it's a vision, a vision revealed by Ataturk. But I'd like to ask you: throughout the history of the Republic of Turkey, have we fully implemented the vision of peace in the homeland? No.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0077par0229	God, it's always the same story.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0230	Have there been military coups in this country? We're talking about peace in the dorm. Did this country hang its own prime minister? He hung it up. Have ethnic and sectarian conflicts been created in this country, and have the nation been broken to one another, dear friends? It's broken.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0078par0232	You did it in Sivas.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0233	Again, dear friends, these ideological camps, have our young people been massacred by conflict? It's been taken care of.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0079par0234	Tell it to Omar Dinçer, Omar Dinçer..
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0235	These are just an excuse, dear friends. After the beatings, have those young saplings been slaughtered on death rows again, dear friends? It's been cut down. And there were no unsolved murders in this country again? Okay.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0080par0236	Why don't you look into it?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0081par0237	It's still happening!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0238	Does this mean that the vision that Ataturk put forth was wrong? No. Let's look at foreign policy. Is Turkey on the brink of war with Bulgaria again, rightfully, at 89? He's here. Did Greece come to the brink of war often again? He's here. In the same way, did he put troops on the Syrian border because he supported terrorism? He piled it up rightfully. Dear friends, have we rightly interfered with Cyprus? We did. So, the ideals, the visions, the facts on the land don't always match. (CHP rows) The important thing is, are you violating it, or is the other side violating it, dear friends? Thus, in this process, the zero problem policy with neighbors does not mean ignoring all the developments, all the mistakes in the neighbors, and accepting them.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0082par0241	Where, indeed, is Piri Reis? Has anyone seen Piri Reis?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0242	Dear friends, as I said at the beginning, this motion has been made unprofessionally.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0083par0243	Mr. President, do you hear that?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0244	If we don't know who signed it, if we don't know who did it, believe me, you'll think it was prepared to weaken Turkey's power by someone who meant Turkey, who was biased. (AK PARTY applause, CHP lines) What's that got to do with it? Yeah, that's right. Almost, if they have any more courage, if they are not ashamed of this nation, these friends of ours will justify Israel and Armenia in these matters only to attack Ahmet Davutoglu and only the AK PARTI power.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0084par0247	Why don't you buy land from Israel?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0085par0248	You gave land to the Greeks and the Israelis, earth!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0249	Thus, it is an attempt to weaken Turkey's power and efficiency. Therefore, dear friends, it is not possible for us to support this unprofessional motion. Mr. Davutoglu, I don't support him just because he's my friend. Mr. Davutoglu and our ancestors have been friends for nearly three hundred years. And I'm not defending myself because we're sharing the territory of the Toros again. Dear friends, of course, in order to implement the foreign policy of the EC PARTI government, with our Prime Minister's instructions, the policies prepared by our party and by our government...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0086par0253	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. ...successful work, working day and night for Turkey's reputation and activities, traveling around the country, not sleeping properly in his home, and everywhere we go, he is respected by himself, mentioned by his name.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0087par0257	Who said don't sweep into the hole?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0072par0258	...We will, of course, support our minister, who is effective in Turkey's foreign policy vision, working on the land, and vote against this proposal, which has been preempted, misprepared, and is not accurate in its content. Thank you all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0088par0262	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0089par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0088par0264	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0089par0265	Mr. Sargeglu has said and said several times that he was prepared in the language, and he has clearly insulted our group. I demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0088par0266	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0090par0268	Mr. President, there's no insult here!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0089par0271	Now, Mr. Sergeant, this one says it's unprofessional. So he means that they're stories, what crimes we have behind us, they can't find them! That's what you mean. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, he says, "We have moved to the aiding country. " That's right, you sent money to Libya, and then what happened to the businessmen. Your strategic depth has been fingered, Mr. Secretary. In one night, you did Asad.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0091par0276	This has nothing to do with bullying.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0089par0277	Zero is the problem, zero is the neighbour, zero is the minister! The Prime Minister's most insane project is Davutoglu. There is no more crazy project than Mr. Davutoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] To those who hold Syrian politics to a cult, are they from the same sect as Obama, who follow the same policy as Obama? Give me his answer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It may be that Assad (Assad) and some of our friends share a religious resemblance, but that does not mean that there is a political resemblance. You follow the same policies as Obama, are you from the same sect? Then you'll have to answer that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The thing that's going on in Turkey is that the sovereign forces said to you: "We will finish the work of Libya, Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Iran, and you will help us." But you said: "What will we get in return?" They said to you: "You will also destroy the republic of Ataturk." You'll destroy the secularism. You will disband the Turkish army. You'll shut up their colleges. You're going to take down the government's institutions. You'll deal with the institutions of the Republic. And you said, well, that's very nice. That's the bargain you make with the sovereign forces. Mr. Sergeant, I'm telling you to tell them the truth. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0092par0287	Thank you, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0093par0288	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0092par0289	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0093par0290	Sir, Mr. Speaker had another pick-me-up especially when he was correcting the bullying.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0092par0291	Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please don't give me any more taunts.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0094par0294	We had no idea what the Mujahideen had become.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0095par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, when the facts are expressed here, I wonder what we can find out from behind these truths, how we can go about it, they're in an account. But let me tell you, what you're saying here is very funny. This account doesn't work either, so don't go into such an account. We express our truth as it is, and all the public knows it. Now, dear friends, look, Turkey has come to a period that has done what it hasn't done in years; Turkey has broken taboos, Turkey has wiped out Baasci regimes. Look, after you took over the multiparty election -- I'm asking you, yes -- when did you become in power alone with the support of the nation? When did you become one? You couldn't, and you couldn't.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0096par0299	Never mind, tell me about Marmara.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0095par0300	With this policy, with this opposition, there's no way you can be. Look, in foreign policy, there are no more two-bending prime ministers in this country; there is a Prime Minister in foreign policy who sets the agenda of the world...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0097par0302	Is there a Secretary of State with a finger?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0095par0303	...a Prime Minister who sets the agenda of the world and uses initiative at the point of solving the world's problems.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0097par0304	They fingered you in your strategic depth.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0098par0305	They called him back to Davos, Davos.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0095par0306	Now, the whole world is very curious about what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey is going to talk about because there's a government that guides the world, a Prime Minister who guides the world.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0097par0307	To the world!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0095par0308	If it weren't for this, would we have been a temporary member of the Security Council by the vote of 151 countries? On the one hand, could the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe be a Turk? On the other hand, could the Secretary General of the Islamic Conference be a Turk? For the first time, if this is happening at this time, if this is the first time that Turkey's ever been in a world-directing situation, please be a little more national about foreign policy, and at the foreign policy point, I say stop defending Armenia, Israel, and I thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0099par0310	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0100par0312	But we want to know about Marmara. We'd like to know about Marmara, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0099par0313	Please... please... Now, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Ahmet Davutoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0100par0319	Here you go, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0099par0320	Here you are, Mr. Davutoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0101par0321	Mr. President, I stand before you on the basis of a gene question given against me by the People's Republican Party. On this occasion, I will be more than happy to share our foreign policy vision with you again. First of all, I want to thank Mr. Korutrk and Mr. Turkesh for the positive words they've stressed on my person and academic work. Besides, until the Arab Spring comes out...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0102par0323	Arab zemheri!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0101par0324	I'd like to thank them for their words of praise about the foreign policy we follow. At least, I consider it appreciated as a sign that the general foundations of this foreign policy vision are appreciated. They asked the question, and they claimed: "Is your conscience comfortable, or do you make an assessment of yourself? " Yes, we always do an accounting every day, when we wake up in the morning, before we go to bed at night. None of these positions, none of these positions are permanent. What matters is what kind of legacy we left in the future, what kind of country we're renovating to future generations. From that point on, I personally want to share with you today this accounting that I do every day to give meaning to my position every day. And I want to thank the senior citizens for this opportunity, because this Congress is such an accounting office, and because of the policies that we follow, there is no place to account except for God, the people and the Supreme Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0103par0326	Have fear of God. You have Muslim blood on your hands.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0101par0327	Now, look, in a very civilized way...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0103par0329	You've got Muslim blood on your hands. Don't speak the name of God.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0101par0330	Congressman friend, just a minute... In a very civilized manner, Mr. Turkesh and Mr. Kuruturk have also watched the speeches of Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0103par0332	But they spoke civilizedly.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0101par0333	Please... and I'm not insulting anyone. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0103par0334	Don't abuse.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0104par0336	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0105par0337	Congressmans, please, I think that all the MPs here are mature enough to know how to listen to the speaker. Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0106par0339	The speaker shouldn't talk in a provocative way, shouldn't abuse.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0340	Now, for me, the foreign policy mission, the Foreign Ministry mission, has four main goals: First, to strengthen Turkey's role in the international system and order, to increase its credibility, appearance and efficiency in the international field. The most obvious indicator of this mission is that in recent years, it has shown itself as an increase in the structure and representation of our State Department. Look, I'll give you some statistics: in 2002 we had 163 foreign diplomatic missions, 202...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0108par0341	What difference does it make?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0342	...what we're about to open in the next few years, we'll be up to 219, gradually 231, in a year or two. Our number of embassies has risen from 93 to 120, to 130 in the coming period. Every day I'm here for this accounting... (CHP rows of noise) Please... Now, because of this increase in the history of the Republic, in the last two years, in the history of the Republic...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0109par0344	Mr. Secretary, how many speak Arabic?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0345	...we've increased our total foreign diplomatic mission by 25 percent, and we're among the top ten countries in the world. So in the context of our 2023 target, the number of foreign representatives of our State Department appears to have reached these goals.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0110par0346	What did it do?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0347	When we reach 231, we'll be among the top five countries in the world with the largest foreign diplomatic mission in a few years. This is an indication of Turkey's presence everywhere. Every time I wake up in the morning, every time I walk into my office, there are some maps in front of me. One is a map of our foreign diplomatic missions; one is a map of countries where we started implementing visa exemptions. I'll just give you an example of how we do this accounting, just as a sign of how we do it, from a continent: this is our situation in Africa in 2002, we have only 12 embassies in 87 years; this is our foreign diplomatic mission in 2012.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0111par0349	You know what continent that is, don't you?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0350	I say to our great Council, this is accounting. I say this to our great Assembly, in the sight of our great Parliament, I say to our nation, as Secretary of State, in every country in the world -- its scale, its population -- we will carry out this mission until our glorious flag is waved, every country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Recently, we have opened an embassy in Burma. The ambassador of Burma asked my instructions before he left, and I said: "Go, I have one request, go, go, visit the tomb of our martyrs who were taken by the British in the First World War, and visit the tomb of the martyred martyrs in Arakan, and tell them that we are here, we bring the flag that you have been martyred for, and we will wave it here for eternity." (PARTİ rankings, applause) This is the accounting I do every morning: wherever we have a citizen, where we must be, where we must be, where we must wave the flag.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0112par0353	What about the martyrs in Cyprus?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0354	Again, every day when I wake up in the morning, I wonder where we're missing representation, we're doing accounting with our Prime Minister. See, before, we were members of NATO, the Council of Europe, the Agency for Islamic Co-operation, but our representation was very low. Now an assistant NATO Secretary General is a Turk, and a Turkish MP has taken over the chairmanship of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. Sergeant, and I thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0113par0356	You made Rasmussen the Secretary General, and you got him in return.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0357	The Secretary General of Islamic Co-operation is a Turk. Look, Mr. Turkesh, I thank you very much for Central Asia's sensitivity, but in 20 years there was no Turkish World Council in Central Asia, on behalf of member states. The state of the Republic of Turkey founded the Turkish World Council in Istanbul, and the Secretary General is an ambassador, Halil Akincı. The Turkish World Council will then form the altar of our Central Asian policy. The African Union has accepted three strategic members, one is China, one is India, and the third is Turkey. We're strategic partners with the African Union. We have strategic membership with the Gulf Co-operation Council. We're observers in the Arab League. From the Caribbean to the Pacific, we are either observers or strategic partners in all international organisations, including ASEAN, CARICOM, MERCOSUR. Now I give you another good news: right now, while our foreign policy is being criticised, Beijing is being approved as a dialogue partner for Turkey's Shanghai Co-operation Organization, at this time. And so all over the world, they say, "Why are we not represented in the Asian formation of the Shanghai Co-operation Organization?" We were asked questions, and we were there. There are almost no regional and international organisations that we are currently not represented by, and we will soon reinforce the rest. My second mission as Secretary of State was to take measures to ensure the safety of our citizens everywhere in the world, freedom of movement, and as a matter of fact, we've lifted visas with more than 60 countries.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0114par0361	What countries are they, what countries are they?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0362	Because we don't have natural gas sources, we don't have big oil sources; our only capital is our people. We're going to tear down all the walls in front of our people.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0115par0363	There were, there were; you gave to the Romans, to the Romans!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0364	From the south of Africa to Russia, you ask, "What countries?," Russia. Just lifting visas with Russia is a revolution in Turkish-Russian relations. Go ahead and ask our workers, contractors, firms who work in Russia. We'll clear the visas with the European Union, I assure you. We're conducting tough negotiations, we'll continue to run them. What we tell them is that the visa exemption is our right, and the Recitation Agreement only comes in with visa exemptions. These days, we are conducting deep negotiations on this issue. Again, it's our job as State Department to ensure the safety of citizens where they are. See, there was a civil war in Kyrgyzistan, where Turkey was the first to land and evacuate its citizens. We evacuated our citizens in Libya, Tunisia, Egypt. Libyan evacuation is a myth in itself. With the contributions of all our institutions, our Chief of Staff, our Ministry of Transport, AFAD, all institutions have demonstrated the power of the state of the Republic of Turkey. In one week, 25,000 of our citizens were returned to their families without a bloody nose. Ten thousand citizens from 63 countries have been brought together.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0115par0366	$2 billion in there...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0367	At a meeting, the Rwandan Foreign Minister came and said: "How will we get our students out of there?" The next thing we knew, our Turkish brothers put our students on a plane and landed in Rwanda. At that time, we realized the power of the Republic of Turkey, and at that time we realized how the state of the Republic of Turkey has shown compassion for everyone, regardless of race, language, or religion.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0116par0369	The Turkish companies in Libya were seized, what did you do?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0370	Look, from our brother who was held hostage in Afghanistan for six months, from the Revolution we rescued, from Venezuela, from Darfur, Iraq, from which we saved our citizens, the families of our citizens, one by one. I welcome them at every ambassador's conference. And our greatest source of happiness is to inform the families of those citizens that they have survived. From now on, as the State Department, we will continue to have power wherever we have a citizen as the government of the Republic of Turkey. The performance assessment of our foreign policy mission, which needs to be done in the third accounting, is the power Turkey has achieved at a global level. How much power do we have in the international field? Look, 50 years later, we joined the United Nations Security Council.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0116par0372	Who are the other candidates, the other candidates?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0373	We performed extraordinaryly in 2009-2010. I'd like to thank our diplomats, all who've done all the work. They thought we'd run again in a year or two. No, we're running for 2015-2016 again because we know that the country that deserves to be there is the Republic of Turkey. We continue our active role in the entire United Nations system. Finally, I bring this to our great nation from here: the United Nations will have a centre in Istanbul. All regional offices of the United Nations will be gathered in Istanbul, and will be a United Nations city, such as Istanbul, Geneva, Vienna, and Nairobi. (AK PARTY) The centre of global politics, global conscience, will be in Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0116par0375	Why don't you choose Ankara?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0376	The flags of all the countries of the world will also be waved in Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0117par0377	What is your problem with Ankara, Minister?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0378	Again, we are seriously conducting accession talks in the European Union. We've never strayed from the goal of the European Union.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0118par0379	Do you have a problem with Ankara?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0380	In the United Nations system, Turkey is the president of the minimum-developed platform of countries -- the global cultural order, which you should all appreciate in the name of social justice -- with the alliance of civilizations within the United Nations system. We're the president of the world's most oppressed, the poorest, and we're the ones who are trying to increase their level of development as quickly as possible. In the past, we were the object country of the IMF, the borrower. This year, as the active country of the IMF Executive Directors' Board, what will be lent to whom? We will be on the side that decides, not the one who asks for a loan. Here's the effect of our global power. Our Prime Minister will soon join the G-20 Summit in Mexico, then join the Rio Summit in the United Nations, the development summit. Turkey is the country that is most heard and is most likely to say what, because Turkey is the country that fights the global economic crisis in the right way, while everyone is struggling with unemployment, and Turkey is the country that keeps increasing its employment. How do we do that? We're doing this with effective economic policies that we're implementing, on the one hand, diversifying Turkey's market, its market, by applying foreign policy to meet Turkey's energy needs. And I'd like to give you the only example of Somalia that's finally become a legend all over Africa. Here's the conscience when you call it Vicdan. One day, two planes landed in Somalia, where everyone thought they had forgotten. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey landed with elite artists, businessmen, ministers, most importantly, their families, and showed the world that we are interested in each and every one of humanity. We have motivated the human conscience to keep no one hungry and exposed.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0119par0383	You're lying, people stayed in the tent at minus 25 degrees, in the tent.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0384	This was discussed throughout Africa. At a Somali meeting, at a Somali diaspora meeting, the Diaspora leader says: "All countries make promises, and Turks make promises." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When our Prime Minister left, we said we'd be ambassadors. We opened in two months. We'll rehabilitate the airport and start regular flights. We said that in six months Turkish Airlines began their flights. For the first time in 20 years, Mogadishu was connected to the world through Istanbul. All oppressed peoples will be connected to the world through Turkey from now on. We are the voice of the global conscience and the global economy. The fourth dimension of our foreign policy mission is a regional area, a regional area to start with from neighbouring countries. Let's do an accounting. In the Balkans, Turkey-Bosna Herzegovina-Serbia, Turkey-Bosna Herzegovina-Croatian trilogy mechanisms were established. This year, together with Serbia in the 100th year of the Balkans, we launched Project for the 100th Year of Balkan Peace, together with the country that was thought to have been the most troubled in the past. We will be in Belgrade next week to attend the Balkan summit. We will remove all hostility from the Balkans. We don't intend to be hostile with anyone. But we say, yes, whoever we were separated with last century, a hundred years ago -- the testimony of Mr. Kaplan, again -- in the Balkans, in the Caucasus, in the Middle East, I repeat what I said in Kayseri, with whomever the walls were established, whether Arab or Arab or Kurdish -- whether the Azerbaijan or Georgian -- we will lift them up one by one, our brothers and we will embrace them one by one. We'll form new regional arrangements with them, hand in hand, without ordering them, without commanding them. Look, we're having a three-way meeting this week in Tripoli, Turkey-Georgia-Azerbaijan, the Foreign Minister's meeting. Last month we had a three-way meeting in Nahchivan, Turkey-Iran-Azerbaijan. Why are we doing this? To bring peace to the Caucasus. And we will have all kinds of relations with the Armenians, as long as they respect the general peace in the Caucasus, despite all obstacles, and with the vision that they have abandoned the Azerbaijan land. We're not looking for permanent hostility with anyone, we're looking for lasting friendships. See, from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Kirgizistan, Somalia to Lebanon, Afghanistan to Palestine, we've been involved in all national compromises. This is not an intervention. Let's sit in Ankara, let's not interfere in the world. We've abandoned that understanding. What happened? When there was an internal conflict in Kyrgyzistan -- and I know that Mr. Turkesh knows the details -- the first Foreign Ministry plane to land at Bishkek was my plane, and I'm honored because we have to deal with the fate of my Kirgiz and Uzbek brothers there. Before the general elections on October 10, 2010, we are the ones who gathered all the ethnic groups in Kyrgyztan, all the ethnic groups, the major national congress, and his co-chair, and allowed the elections to pass in peace. We never abandoned our brothers in Central Asia, nor our brothers in the Middle East, nor in the Balkans. And as one of my greatest honors during the Foreign Ministry, I may recall that I, a scholar, an academic, and an intellectual, was honored to go there and attend the funeral prayer of Mr. Genghis Mountainci, the author of the great classic book, Mr. Genghis Mountainci, who was to be buried with no owners in England, while I, in one night, returned his body and returned to his home and attended his funeral prayer. And from now on, we will look after Turkish, whoever had a historical relationship with us, even if we didn't have a citizen, regardless of race, ethnities, sects. Whether it's in Central Asia or the Middle East or the Turkmen or the Arab or our Kurdish brother, I say this for Mr. Kaplan... Mr. Assad, President of Syria... one of the agendas of each meeting since 2005 is respect for the Kurdish identity and citizenship. (HPP rows ▪ Do you respect them? Sound.) We hear you. When we arrived on April 4, last year, our only demand was to give our first and only demand to our Kurdish brothers their identities, their citizenship identity -- not even their identity as a citizen -- and that was our first and primary demand.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0120par0391	What about our language, Mr. Secretary, our language?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0392	We will continue these regional policies hand in hand with all our friends, no distinction at all. Now, in this general picture, there are two new challenges, right in front of the state of the Republic of Turkey, where its external representation is increasing, its international activity is increasing, its regional activity is increasing, its ability to have its citizens is increasing. This challenge is in front of the whole world, not just ours. One is the economic crisis in Europe, one is the major political change in the Middle East. When we wake up in the morning, we look at the West, and there's an economic crisis belt from Greece to Italy to Spain to Ireland. We're looking south, from Syria to Yemen to Morocco, and in the middle of it, there's a country at the center of it that becomes the world's rising power with democracy, economic development, foreign policy activity. And that's when, while we're dealing with these crises, we also see these possibilities: the economic crisis in the European Union has shown how resistant our economy is. The political crisis in the Middle East showed how democracy is established in Turkey. Last year, all Middle Eastern people were seeking elections from Libya to Syria, from Yemen to Egypt, while we held the June 12th elections with the world's appreciation. If our democracy is sound, if our economy is strong, we will continue to be active in these areas. Now, I come to relations with neighbouring countries that are often stressed. Look, if someone says, "We have problems with all our neighbors." I don't mean to question anyone here, but we need to get a geography or a list of our neighbors first. We currently run Russia, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Romania, Azerbaijan, the High-level Strategic Business Union Council with Kazakhstan, if you consider a distant neighbour. Georgia and I even removed the passports, we're passing by ID. With Syria, which seems to be the problem, which is now troubled, we have made every effort to make sure Syria does not suffer. Again, for the record, in Syria, we have never adopted a religious and ethnic-based policy, we don't promote it, we don't promote it in the region. We want to do two things in our region: we follow an effective crisis management policy in the region against people who want to start a cult or ethnically cold war. Second, we will continue our efforts to make our region a single haven of peace, stability and prosperity around political dialogue, economic interplay and cultural pluralism, and that is our vision.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0121par0400	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0107par0401	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, around this vision, I'm just going to mention our June program so that this whole picture can be seen in a wholeness. In June, two days ago, we held the Conference of the Alliance of Civilisations, we held the United Nations Somali Conference, and now the World Economic Forum continues, tomorrow we will host the Global Anti-Terrorism Forum, we will hold the 20th Year Summit of Black Sea Economic Co-operation, we will hold the Turkey-Azerbaijan-Gürcistan Trilateral Meeting, we will hold the Istanbul Process in Kabul, the Second Afghanistan-Istan Process, and we will hold a Nuclear Summit in Istanbul, with my Afghan counterpart in Istanbul, and we will attend the summit of Mr. Rio on June 16th and 20th. If this is a country's one-month foreign policy agenda, then the result is that this country is no longer a sick man, not a sick man of the 90s, is on its feet, has survived the convalescence period, and puts its weight on the world's agenda as a new giant. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) No one is ever going to be able to bring this giant back to sleep, I assure you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0122par0405	Thank you, Mr. Davutoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0123par0406	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0124par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0122par0408	Wait a minute, Mr. Slim, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0125par0409	The new Prime Minister has been announced, and good luck to the new Prime Minister!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0122par0410	Wait a minute, Mr. Lawmakers, I want to hear the request. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0126par0412	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, in the last sentence of his speech, he said: "Stop defending Ermenistan and Israel." At that moment, of course, I didn't want to say anything because you called the Minister, I didn't mean to disturb the Minister. I want to answer him, it's a very obvious tease.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0122par0413	Mr. Tütin, please answer with him in a limited manner to avoid any new taunts.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0127par0414	You just said that, but he picked on me again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0122par0415	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0128par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. We didn't defend Armenia and Israel, but let me tell you, Mr. Aydın, who banned the Azerbaijan flags in Bursa? Who went to the match with the President of Armenia? Who banned Azerbaijan flags in Bursa?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0129par0421	He didn't, he didn't.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0128par0422	Two: We give these minefields to the Israelis. When we say...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0129par0423	Did we?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0128par0424	...Mr. Prime Minister came out and said, "Don't be racist. We cancelled it at the Constitutional Court." Did Mr. Baykal meet with the Israeli businessman, Mr. Erdogan, in secret at that time?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0130par0425	They're stale, they're gone.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0128par0426	Three: the other one, the assistant secretary general of NATO, was chosen as a Turk. You said, Mr. Minister, that's right. You had three conditions: 1) The Muslims would be apologized for the insult to the Holy Prophet. 2) Roj TV was to be turned off. 3) NATO Assistant Secretary General would become a Turk. In return, we would vote for NATO Vice Secretary General. One of those three things was done, two of them weren't made; there was no apology, Roj TV didn't turn off, but you went in and voted in the NATO Secretary General election. Another thing you said was that you were always interested in the Turks, that we gave them our hand. I'll tell you a name, perhaps you've forgotten, Rabia Kadir, the Turk of Uygur, in case you remember this. You say you helped Somalia, that's right, the Prime Minister went and helped. Well, there's hunger in South Sudan. Why don't you take care of it? Is there any chance that your friendship with El Bashir will cause trouble here? [[Applause from CHP rows]] And the last thing I want to say is that as an academic, as a minister, as an intellectual, I saw for the first time an intellectual who called himself "The Light." And no one calls himself an angel. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0131par0437	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0132par0438	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0131par0439	Here you are, Mr. Davutoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0132par0443	Thank you, Mr. Encel, and I've been able to explain a few things that I haven't been able to explain. First of all, when the NATO Secretary General Rasmussen was elected, we had not three but five conditions, but one after the other.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0133par0446	Which one? Was there an apology for the insult to Muhammad?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0132par0447	A Turkish deputy NATO Secretary General has been appointed. The number of our military stars has been increased.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0134par0449	Comic crisis...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0132par0450	Rasmussen made it clear in his speech at the Civilisations Alliance in Istanbul that he had the will and regret to correct relations with the Islamic world.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0134par0451	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The fairy tale...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0132par0452	The legal process on Roj TV has been completed, and Roj TV has been established in connection with terrorism, and the closure of Roj TV is currently under way. We follow what is promised to us, and we get the result.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0134par0454	It's been five years, five years. Who are you kidding?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0132par0455	Secondly, it's a matter of South Sudan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0134par0456	You fool the AKP Group. How are you going to trick us?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0132par0457	See, we are one of the first countries to open an embassy in South Sudan. As meticulous as we are about the Northern Sudan, we show the same thoroughness about the South Sudan. We opened one of the first embassies and one of the most active embassies in South Sudan. We're the ones who stepped in to resolve the conflicts between the North Sudan and the South Sudan. I'd like that to be known.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0135par0458	The result is...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0132par0459	Thirdly, what you're saying about the Uygur Turks in particular... Look, in the history of the republic, we've made four trips in the past three years, including Urumchi (Urumchi), Kashgarίa, President of the Republic of Turkey, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, and myself twice, and we've embraced our descendants there. While our close friendship with China continues, we also develop and continue to develop relations with Sincan Uygur Autonomous Region. You can criticize us on all of these matters, but what happens is, look at the facts, analyze the facts, criticize those facts, or there may be misleading consequences. If you criticize the consequences of what we have done and what we have achieved, then you'll be in the wrong position. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0136par0464	Thank you, Mr. Davutoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0137par0465	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary is not telling the truth. No Turkish has been appointed Assistant Secretary General of NATO. Since a Turk could not be appointed, a temporary staff was appointed, and a few years later they will be reinstated. So please tell the truth, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0136par0466	We've got it on record, sir. You've fixed it. Yes, Mr. Kaplan, what is your request?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0138par0468	The Minister pronounced my name and made an assessment of the Kurds in Syria.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0136par0469	What is it?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0138par0470	It's not true, I want to explain it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0136par0471	Please don't engage in new taunts, correct them. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0138par0473	It'll be diplomatic, sir. Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0136par0474	Please, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0138par0477	Dear friends, I'm highlighting a fact here. There are 16 Kurdish parties in Syria, and not a single party was involved when the Syrian National Council met in Istanbul. I'm drawing your attention. Why didn't he join? All the Kurdish parties in Syria... look, I'm counting them all, they're not all Kurdistan Workers' Party. The PYD didn't attend the biggest party, but 14 parties didn't. I want to emphasize something that Mr. Minister must understand: Even the Syrian National Council has said, "We will not leave Syria's fate at the mercy of Turkey." He said, "And as soon as the opposition in Syria returns, the Syrian National Council has decided to recognise the Kurds in the constitution as soon as they leave Turkey and pay compensation for their persecution until now." Why are you putting pressure on Kurdish opposition? Why don't you know the Kurds, you don't know their organization, you don't know their party? Syria has 10 per cent Kurds, 3 million inhabitants. What's with all the Kurdish hostility? What's with the racism? What's with the anti-fascist approach? Here, here's the mistake, fellas. You say Nusayri to the Nusayri, you are hostile to the sect, you are hostile to the Kurds because of their Kurds. Why? Because Kurds live in the land where you're going to build a buffer zone in the Middle East. Democratic autonomy and status rights are now inevitable in the Middle East. Do not interfere with the peoples of other countries in the right to decide their own destiny. This foreign policy is wrong, it's a dead end. We're warning this. Kurdish hostility does not give anyone, party and power and Turkey. It is the right foreign policy to weave a thousand years of brotherhood with a ten thousand-year strategy of brotherhood and friendship. Here, a foreign policy implementing Kurdish and Turkish brotherhood in both the Middle East and Turkey is successful. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0139par0481	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Davutoglu has a request to make amends, in his place. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0140par0486	Thank you, Mr. President, especially for giving me this opportunity. On two things...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0139par0489	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0140par0490	For one thing, what Mr. Oğan is stressing is that the NATO Assistant Secretary General is based on transformation, which is appointed. Therefore, there is no false information. NATO Assistant Secretary General, one of the permanent assistants was given to a Turkish diplomat, but in all NATO, the system is based on transformation. I'd like to stress one thing to Mr. Kaplan. When it comes to Turkey, Syria, Iraq or any country, we don't observe any ethnic and religious agendas. We give all our brothers and sisters all kinds of support.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0141par0492	Then explain!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0140par0493	Wait a minute... the Syrian National...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0141par0494	Why did they not attend Istanbul?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0142par0495	Please...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0141par0496	Explain!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0143par0497	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0142par0498	Please, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0143par0499	The Syrian National Council...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0144par0500	Explain!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0143par0501	Wait a minute, I'll explain.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0144par0502	Tell me why they didn't join!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0145par0503	Please, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0143par0504	I'll explain. The Syrian National Council is a structure of Syrian parties, groups for the future of Syria. We don't interfere with them, but I'll tell you this, which means you're not getting the information: right now there's a process of election of the Syrian National Council as president. One of the most powerful candidates is known as Seyda Abdulbasid, of Kurdish origin, the strongest... possibly a Kurd could take over the Syrian National Council. For us, it is not the ethnic or religious basis of who is in charge of Syria, but it is enough that he is Syrian, that he is our brother. In particular, we have always encouraged Kurdish brothers to enter the system as much as possible in both Syria and Iraq. That's why we developed our relations with the Northern Iraqi Regional Management. We view any injustice to our Kurdish brothers as unfair to ourselves. I mean our Kurdish brothers outside the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Turkey's policy on this issue is clear. We have come to defend an ancient brotherhood, and we will defend this brotherhood forever. And we won't allow anyone here who wants to tempt this brotherhood. Kurdish groups of the Syrian National Council attended the Pendik meeting. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0146par0508	Thank you, Mr. Davutoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0147par0509	He's lying, he's lying! You're lying! How dare you come in front of this coven! You've ruined Turkey's reputation!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0146par0510	Mr. Young, please... Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0148par0512	Sir, both Mr. Tütin and Mr. Kaplan have spoken to our group, and I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0149par0513	The Civil Code has a code of conduct. Are you the government, brother? You don't live, he doesn't. We're questioning the government. You're confused.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0146par0514	One moment, sir... one moment...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0149par0515	You're confusing living and running, so don't.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0146par0516	Mr. Kaplan, please, take your seat. Mr. Aydın, please come, you have two minutes. And please don't pick on me anymore, let's get this over with. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0522	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we're being carefully watched by the public here, and I assure you, he's taking a lot of credit for the conversation here. First of all, you're not the only representative of the Kurds.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0151par0526	Neither are you!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0527	I'll tell you this: I'm deputy leader of the group of the AK PARTY, Adıyaman MP, Kurdish, alhamdulillah Muslim, an honorable citizen of the Republic of Turkey; that is to be known. That's for you to know.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0151par0529	And you're not a representative of the Turks. You're 49 percent! Don't forget you're 49 percent. Everyone represents as much as the vote they get. They don't know anything else.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0530	Don't express yourself as a representative of a group.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0151par0531	You don't represent the Turks or the Kurds. Talk as much as you get a vote.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0532	We represent all of Turkey. We are a group that represents all of Anatolia, all of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0152par0533	Turkish is not ethnic, you're using it wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0534	So we don't do regional, ethnic and religious nationalism, but please don't discriminate over ethnic politics here.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0152par0535	You're using it wrong. Turkish is not an ethnic name.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0536	Dear friends, another friend of ours, another group of vice presidents, has lined up lies here. I'd like to ask you: You have stated that the Israeli businessman met with the Prime Minister, can you prove that? If you don't prove it, you're a mufter.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0153par0539	He said it himself!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0540	I've spoken to our Prime Minister, there's never been a meeting like this. If you don't prove it, you're a mufter, you're a slanderer!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0153par0541	He said it himself!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0542	Second: General Staff has made a statement regarding minefields. Fourteen applications. None of these are from the government of Israel or Israel. That's your second lie. And there's no land about minefields that we give to Israel or anywhere else. Again, about the Jews, about Israel... look, dear friends, we have no personal problems with Jews or any other ethnic group; we have a problem with Israel's government, which is ionist, oppressive, persecuted. [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines, noise from CHP and MHP rows]] We gave nine martyrs during the Blue Marmara, and when we raised the whole world for this cruelty, who did you meet, what did you do?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0154par0546	You're responsible!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0547	All the public knows that. I'll leave all this to the public's discretion.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0155par0550	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0551	In other words, we have no problem with the Republic, we have no problem with the Republic.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0155par0552	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0553	We crown the republic with democracy, we crown the republic with which you eviscerate.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0156par0554	You're destroying the Republic, you're destroying it!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0155par0555	Mr. Aydın, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0556	But you have a problem with this republic, with this people.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0155par0558	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0157par0559	I guess I don't have to explain anything, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0150par0560	You're a mufter if you don't prove it!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0158par0561	Don't you guys have anything better to do than break up these people? You're ethnic racists.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0159par0562	Finally, I promise you, Muharrem Fine, please don't pick on me again. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0565	Now, look, Mr. Aydın, I follow my opponents in politics as I follow the memory of my own party, but you haven't followed the president yet.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0161par0566	I followed him.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0567	Look, the Prime Minister said, "First, I didn't see Ofer. " He said.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0161par0568	No, he didn't.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0569	Then the Conqueror went on Altaylı's show, okay? Go check the records and you'll see.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0161par0570	Prove it!
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0571	Conqueror Altaylı... or what will I prove, the Prime Minister himself proved. Can't you hear me speak Turkish?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0161par0572	The Prime Minister didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0573	Prime Minister Fatih Altaylı was on his schedule, and I spoke to Ofer.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0161par0574	You got it wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0575	He says to prove it! Everyone wrote it all over Turkey. Two...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0161par0577	You got it wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0578	Look, I'm telling you about the others again. Mr. Aydın, do you want to sell the land to the Israelis? He did.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0161par0579	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0580	What do you mean, you don't have it?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0161par0581	There isn't.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0162par0582	There's no Israeli company in it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0160par0583	Look, my dear friend, the situation you had twenty-five or thirty years ago was that you were a mujahideen, then you were promoted to a contractor, and now you've been promoted to anything! That doesn't make sense. (HPP cheers) You are Haram, halal, give me God, your strange servant is eating God. You are in your senses. Have you, in this land, forbidden or forbidden the Azerbaijan flags in Bursa? You're the one who banned the Azerbaijan flags, you've come to us, now you're smearing mud, and I'm returning it to you openly. You came to this stand and you lied. I don't need to prove it, the Prime Minister has already proven that he has. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0163par0586	Thank you, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0164par0587	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0165par0588	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit02spe0163par0592	Talks on whether or not to issue a motion on the foreign minister will be filed. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up. All those in favor of bringing up the motion for the gene... those in favor of the motion... are inadmissible. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0163par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the proposals for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is ranked in the first place, in 156 rows. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Talks were completed on the entire bill in the 111, dated 24/5/2012. Now, I would like to submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We're starting negotiations on chapter one. The first chapter covers the 1st to 18th article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz will speak on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] (x) 233 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 111th Constabulary, dated 24/5/2012.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0166par0020	Mr. President, lawmakers, the method of mediation, or alternative conflict resolution, is still being discussed in many European countries. It's not exactly accepted and adopted. The key point of criticism is that mediation is a method dictated by neoliberism, a step towards reducing the state to facilitate the spread of international capital. In this understanding, the limitation of the state in terms of justice, national defence and domestic security is intended to be reduced. For example, Belgium, the heart of the European Union, has expressed concern that intermediary activity will eventually deepen the dissolution between different ethnic identities that exist in the country, that the judiciary will shrink and that the social and political structure will be resolved as a result, and the nation's state will be harmed. In a country like Belgium where the nation is criticized for its concern that the state can be resolved, I'd like you to consider once again what it could cost in our country, free of any political prejudice. Let's say that people with different ethnic identities only go to their mediators, and different groups of religions and sects go to their mediators, and they sort out the discrepancies according to their own rules. How, then, will the unity and integrity of this country be preserved? The arbitration bill has been brought up on grounds such as reducing the burden of the judiciary, accelerating the judiciary. However, we think the bill could lead to an alternative, multi-law system to independent and neutral courts, and also a system of justice directly dependent on power. Because the control of mediation activities, training of mediators, is directly authorized by the Ministry of Justice in their written and verbal examinations. Given the Justice Department's political position on the judge's exams, it's not hard to imagine that the midterms will also be aimed at the choice of supporters. However, the Federal Commission for Negotiation was also established in Belgium to oversee and manage the mediation system. This commission consists of 2 lawyers, 2 notars and 2 mediators. This commission has been carefully observed as an independent, autonomous structure of the Ministry of Justice. In the mediation bill we discussed today, the Justice Department is directly in charge of many issues. On the upper body of mediation, representatives of the Justice Department bureaucrats and institutions controlled by the Ministry are also in the majority. So in no way the control and management of the mediators by an autonomous institution has been taken into account in this bill, and our motions in this direction have been rejected. As it turns out, despite the example of European countries in the mediation system brought in by the bill, the Ministry of Justice is trying to create a system of intermediary directly dependent on it, despite its more qualified legal regulations. This is why the bill is used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish Nation, as stated in Article 9 of the Constitution. Instead of independent courts using judicial authority on behalf of the Turkish nation, direct mediators from the Ministry of Justice will be authorized to resolve the issues between citizens and the courts and the legal system will be excluded. The mediation system will be easily used for groups who want to prosecute the congregation, cult, Sharia, mafia rules or ethnically. The constitutional claim of anti-constitutionalism of the anti-constitutional law was also expressed in Italy by the barmen, and therefore referred to the Supreme Court. This process continues in Italy. In fact, lawyers have even voiced their reaction by striking against the system of mediation. Again, a member of the Justice Commission in Italy has made it clear that mediation is culturally backward, that the exclusion of courts and lawyers in the resolution of conflicts is an insult to the law. So it's not just in our country, it's in other countries that there are similar discussions. In the 15th article of the bill, the process that can be carried out by the judge cannot be done by the mediator. Even though it is said, the mediator conducts the mediation work, taking into account the nature of conflict, the demands of the parties, and the basics needed for a swift resolution of conflict. Moreover, after the mediation talks, the parties can also receive a warrant from the court, which can be carried out if they want to. As it turns out, mediation is a judicial activity within the framework of the procedure set by the parties. That's why the Constitution is against Article 9. As the bill is drafting, the Law on Law shall be stated by many bar presidents as it is stated that a amendment to Article 35/a will be possible to produce solutions. Under Article 35/a of the Law, it is possible for lawyers to be able to reconcile the parties without trial or trial and to file a report. A amendment to this clause has been suggested that if a settlement of parties and their attorneys is not reached first, the non-compromise clause should be brought to the court as a condition of the case. In this way, many discrepancies can be resolved before the trial. However, when the goal was to create an institution directly linked to the ministry, not to reduce the burden of the judiciary, the adoption of these proposals, of course, was not an issue by the AKP Group. Members of parliament, the most problematic clause of this bill is the fourth article that regulates the confidentiality of mediating activities. Under this clause, the mediator conducts operations in secrecy, contrary to the principle of commonality, according to the rules of the parties. In this case, if the parties want to resolve conflicts under the pressure of the neighborhood, the cult, the ritual, according to the rules of the mafia, then that's also possible, because it's not possible to oversee this activity in secrecy. And that could bring us to the alternate categorical system. When it comes to privacy, women can be referred to an intermediary called by husband, father, or neighborhood pressure, and signed under duress. With this signed report, the right to custody of her child, the right to talk to her child, the right to compensation and property regimes, or the right to inheritance, can be eliminated in secrecy. Our concerns about these matters are not baseless. In Britain and Canada, mediating activities have been agreed to allow Muslims to come up with solutions according to their own beliefs, resulting in serious violations of women's rights. Moreover, an arrangement to punish people for six months in violation of confidentiality by Article 33 makes this situation even more severe. In Austria, however, the rule of secrecy is a professional secret only in terms of the mediator, not binding sides. In the countries in which we imitate this arrangement, what reason is there for such harsh sanctions in our arrangement? Are the customs and rules of the congregation that can be used during intermediary a need to be concealed? How will the law of secrecy prove that such severe sanctions are being imposed on the 5th article, and that there is a limit to documents of the parties' desire to participate in medialisation activities, while the time limit is being imposed? In terms of proof of the interruption of these deadlines, how will those who seek a mediator dare to appeal to the court if the preliminary arbitration report is seen as a violation of confidentiality and a prison sentence? Negotiation is not an act of finding right and wrong, as stated in the basis of the bill; it is considered equal, and it is not based on the protection of the weak against the strong. However, the experience of our legal system over the years is essential to the protection of the weak from the strong against the wrong. For example, when the principle of interpretation in the work law is established in favour of the worker, such principles in mediation will not be considered in any way when there is the protection of a woman who is child and economically weak in family law. In America, however, the balance of power between the parties is highly noted. If there is no balance of power, there is no mediation, and the judge is given extensive discretion in this regard. The title of Article 9 of the draft was referred to by the mediator as carefully and objectively carrying out the mission. What will happen when the mediator does not do his duty objectively, when he does not observe the equality of the parties, and when he suppresses the pressure, when he fails to do his duty, in violation of the will of the parties? What's the sanction? There is no regulation in the bill. The only arrangement is the removal of the negotiator from his record. But that's not enough. There's no way that the negotiator could've...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0167par0037	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0166par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to complete this gap, the Turkish Penal Code, under Article 257, has unfortunately not been accepted by the commission in accordance with the motion of the mediator to be punished for his duties and to be protected as a public official for crimes against him in the same way. I demand that our friends in the AKP Group reconsider. For all these reasons, I demand that our proposals here today to address the difficulties in the draft text be taken into account, our criticism taken into account, and that the irregularities, injustices, and shortcomings of this bill be corrected immediately. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0168par0043	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Elazığ MP Enver Erdem on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0169par0047	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on part one of the First Amendment bill in Law Incompatibility Number 233. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, we, the National Movement Party, are not opposed to the establishment of a mediating mechanism as an alternative solution to law conflicts. In many countries around the world, it is important that this system, which exists in our culture, is created as a more common and legal mechanism, which aims to resolve problems through compromise. Today, in inter-wife disputes, family elders are trying to resolve these problems through peace, as well as through governors, governors, mayors, and commanders, who serve in the area on issues that are important in the field of pay-per-view, such as blood feuds. Again, within our legal system, the Law on Village Law 442, the Law on Oil, Tax Law on the Protection of consumer 4077, the Law on Public Work Conventions, Strike and Lockavt Law, Law on Business Courts No. 5521, Law on Law on Law 6100, and many other regulations have been allowed to compromise. When we look at countries that apply the intermediary system, we see that they are implementing three different models in the world. The first of these applications is in-house models; the second, non-court models; the third, by the court or by the courts. If the model in our country had been chosen within the court or in front of the court, the mediation system would have been more reliable and less critical. If an in-laws system had been chosen again, concerns would have been eliminated that the mediation system would have created a new judicial mechanism outside the judiciary. However, this was not achieved. A similar model of non-court models adopted in Austria and Denmark was adopted. As an institution, the intermediary mechanism is not subject to objections at the point of need for this establishment. One of the main issues of debate and objection in the introduction of the intermediary system is whether these activities are judicial activities? Second, it is the issue of whether the Constitution is contrary or not. The government and the Justice Minister and AKP Group of this government, which brought this bill to your attention, do not see mediating activities as a judicial activity. Well, I'd like to ask the Minister why we're doing this arrangement. Aren't we doing it to reduce the work of the judge? Can we call these activities a commercial activity? Administratorial activity, would you say? Or is it a cultural or agricultural activity? The work is an act of judgment. Mr. Secretary, you're trying to make this work look like a different job to people, as you did before. Look, you set up a radar base for Malatya Globecik, and you said: "This is not against Iran, this will not protect Israel. What did former French President Sarkozy tell you? We call the cat a cat. Didn't he say so? And please don't tell me these activities have nothing to do with judgment. Of course, we know very well why you call it judicial activity, but why, if you call it judicial activity, it would violate at least a few articles of the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Ergin, Minister of Justice says that 6 million cases a year have been turned into case files, and unless the workload is reduced to the courts, we can't eliminate court buildings that are delayed by increasing the number of prosecutors. The judge says and considers alternative conflict solutions as a solution. And we say, as the National Movement Party, that once you've made this arrangement, you can't relieve the burden of the trial. Again, conflicts in the legal state must be addressed by neutral and independent judicial authorities. The excessity of the workload of the judiciary should not be the basis of alternative judgment. Again, the current government, Mr. Secretary, you have to find ways to work faster by maintaining the neutrality and independence of the judiciary. At the beginning of these measures, the number of judges you have said for years has been few must be increased. Again, Mr. Attorney General, do not seek justice only in court and case files. Hand over to the rightful owners what the workers and workers deserve out of the welfare of the officer. Resolve interstate funding and investment injustice. Give up your unfair practices across the country. Dear lawmakers, the Minister does not tell us why the court's workload has increased in enormous proportions, not to mention the flaws of the AKP's Authority in this increase. The courts are full, let's not send the cases to the courts. He says -- as in the Czech Law -- the prisons are full, let the courts go. But he's not talking about what needs to be done to make independent and neutral courts work faster. Dear lawmakers, we also see that there are some incomplete regulations in this bill, ranking 233. First of all, how do we maintain the neutralness of the mediator when we have not yet fully established the neutrality and independence of the judiciary? There is no regulation in the bill. While the mediator should be considered a public official in implementing the Penal Code, there is no regulation on this application. The intermediary process is an undiagnosed process. If the negotiator abuses his position again, there's no telling what will happen. A lack of regulation and sanctions has been one of the key flaws in the arrangement. We're looking for a law school graduate condition to be a negotiator, communication techniques, negotiations and conflict solutions, behavioral psychology, and since the media won't do what the judge does, since they won't do the material law and they won't be able to decide, so we're looking for a law school graduate condition to be a negotiator, which is not clear. I think it's unfair that such an arrangement has been made so that only law graduates can become mediators, even though our people who graduated from tens of thousands of economies and administrative sciences and other schools are out of work on the streets. Of course, I also think the logic of this arrangement is a compromise given by the bar to accept the mechanism of mediation. Dear lawmakers, is it possible that this system will again be used for multi-lawy or for those who want to judge in their own ethnic court? In this respect, this law must be studied more carefully. As a final statement, as well as performances in countries with applications in the world, the mediation system appears to be a provision that carries with it many hesitations, that does not reduce the burden of the judiciary, that even in countries where the practices exist, the citizens have no knowledge of the system, but should be introduced as a global imperative. In any case, I wish this arrangement to be a blessing to our nation.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0170par0060	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0171par0064	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on part one of the First Amendment bill in Law Incompatibility Number 233. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are a process in which the parties resolve conflict by negotiating with the aid of a mediator, a neutral and objective third party. The mediator is an independent and neutral person who tries to facilitate the communication of the parties, keep them at the table, and helps the parties with techniques that will help them come up with their own solutions. In order for the incompatible parties to begin mediation, they need to agree on a neutral and independent third-person mediator, while it is sufficient for the parties to give instructions to their attorneys who have already given power of attorney to seek reconciliation. Given the challenges that can be made in a mediator's agreement, the fact that lawyers can immediately initiate the process of reaching a compromise with instructions from the employer allows reconciliation to be advantageous based on mediation. One of the main reasons for increasing the workload of the courts is the fact that there are discrepancies in matters that are too trivial to be brought to court. Resolved before resorting to judicial measures will prevent parties from taking unnecessary judicial costs and courts from wasting their time on much more important matters. It is suggested that the establishment of the intermediary establishment in our country is urgently needed for these reasons. The most critical aspect of this bill, designed to satisfy this need, is that lawyers are not given the necessary importance and that the institution of mediation is being created under the command of a bureaucratic organization without autonomy. It is based on the legalisation of the bill by educational institutions who want to train to mediate with the draft bill and the permission of the office of the Bureau of Arbitration, which will be established under the Ministry of Justice's General Directorate of Legal Affairs. This is a dangerous arrangement that can easily allow companies who have no experience in intermediary education to seek permission by applying to the Justice Minister's Office, a political figure. Intermediation training must be given through the municipal bars, which the Turkish Bar Association will find appropriate, under the authority and responsibility of the Turkish Bar Association. The arrangements for effective control of intermediary training by both the Turkish Bar Association and the Arbitration Board can also be implemented by the Turkish Bar Association and the Council. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have the right to use the title of mediator and the powers provided by this title. The negotiator has to state that title during the mediation operation." It does. In this respect, the bill generally forms a trade as a compromise, setting the conditions for registration to this occupation, the intermediary record, and bringing various arrangements for the training of mediators, the functioning and control of the mediation institution. It is seen as a means of a solution to an alternative conflict with the bill, to ensure that mediation, which is a solution, can also travel in our country in parallel with its development in the European Union, in the world and in private. To be brought here, it must also be reminded of harsh criticism that the law will lead to severe consequences, such as the ability to implement an alternative law through mediation, and the privatisation of the state's justice service, and disinheriting its citizens from the guarantee of the state of law. The lack of a decision to finish law school in the intermediary profession will ensure that a profession, such as the profession of mediation, is born, and that people who have no legal knowledge of the law will have a say in legal matters. In this sense, intermediary arises as an arrangement that undermines the reputation of lawyers and ignores them. There's a law school in almost every university in our country, and it's impossible to understand that such an arrangement has been introduced while the lawyer who has reached thousands is out of work. According to us, intermediary should be carried out by lawyers who know how to do this job, trained as a profession. An amendment to the final phase of their work in the judicial aid system in the Netherlands, which is the country where the mediation system is best established and successful in Europe, has come to the attention. Applying for the Dutch judicial aid system is subject to a preliminary assessment by staff with the necessary training in the legal aid offices, which is seen as appropriate, and the finder's fee is covered by the legal aid budget. As problems began to develop by writing agreements by non-lawyer intermediaries as a result of mediation in this system, it was considered to be reviewed by a lawyer, and that lawyer's fee would be covered by the legal aid budget. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, under Article 28 of the bill, "In order to carry out the duties set forth in this Law, the Office of Director General is established. In order to carry out the duties set out in this Law on mediating services, the Council of Arbitration is formed within the Ministry." It's called. We see that there is no such concern as an independent structure should be brought in with a bill of law. The independence of the Liaison Board must be ensured by changing the membership and presidential structure as well as by having the Council's independent budget and personnel. In the formation of the board, the weight of the Justice Department staff must be lifted, and the representation of mediator representatives from the implementation must be strengthened by civil society organisations, particularly the Association of Bars of Turkey. Since intermediary is not an act of trial, it will be sufficient for the chairman-in-chief of Legal Affairs or the head of the Mediation Agency to represent only the Ministry of Justice. The negotiators who will be on the board must be personally elected by the negotiators instead of the Minister of Justice. It is imperative that the intermediary profession be carried out by lawmakers again, so that the bill brought to the effect and speed of judgment does not lead to dangerous consequences. Again, it is clear that a hundred hours of legal training scheduled for negotiators will be inadequate. With a hundred hours of training, no one can be an expert in anything, especially in the profession of intermediary, which requires legal knowledge and philosophy. The Liaison Board, which will organise the principles of the trade of intermediary, must be strictly independent. Without the regulations I mentioned, the passing of the law will be at the expense of all of us, and none of the ease intended by law will be provided. I hereby salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0172par0084	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of his personal name, Mr. Bursa MP Kemal Sherbetcioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Sherbetchioğlu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0173par0088	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and your own holy nation. I have taken a personal oath on the bill of the Arbitration Act of Laws of 233 rows of Incompatibility. There are alternative solutions to every country and sociological reality. Negotiation is the most common and successful in the world among alternative conflict solutions. Therefore, the law that is prepared is related to non-designation mediation. Today, as is the result of urbanization, heavy living and living conditions in major cities, and the failure of our cultural dynamics across the globe, unfortunately our people are estranged in our country, and even in the smallest conflicts and conflicts that can be solved by dialogue, the sides are in courts. At this point, it is vital for the parties to end conflict by agreeing with their own will, instead of solving conflicts through the case, to maintain social peace and to dominate the culture of reconciliation. The intermediary process is not competing with the judicial system, nor is the goal to eliminate the possibility to resort to judicial means. Access to justice is a fundamental right secured in Article 6 of our Constitution's 36th and European Convention on Human Rights. The goal is a simpler and easier solution to conflict without damaging the absolute sovereignty of the state's jurisdiction. In 2004, the European Parliament and the European Council's directive for specific aspects of mediation in law and trade discrepancies includes provisions on the field of civil law and trade issues. Instead of the difficult and complex legal system of member states, this directive aims to resolve disputes easier and simpler with the agreement. Member states of the European Union have adopted and implemented laws on alternative solutions in the process. In countries such as Germany, Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovakia, mediation is organised by special laws. While the parties may always be able to resolve their differences by agreeing and taking advantage of the third party, it is necessary for the state to regulate this area and to give it to the parties, as it is in the world and in Europe. The bill will be implemented in discrepancies stemming from private legal relations that only parties can save freely. The intermediary process will not be taken into account for the statute of limitations and the calculated deniability of time. The information acquired by parties and mediators during the intermediary operation will be kept confidential; other judicial authorities will not be able to endure court and prosecution. The reason for this is to ensure confidence in mediating activity and prevent the use of compromises against it. This information and documents will not be requested by the courts. The negotiator is the third person the parties have chosen to agree on. The mediator must be independent and neutral and receive a good education and register. The institutions that will provide training for the mediator's education will need permission from the Ministry of Justice, provided they have the necessary conditions. At the end of the process, the mediator does not make a decision, but tries to eliminate conflict by communicating between the scientific method and the parties. At the end of the intermediary operation, the parties can form an agreement document, if they wish, to appeal to the court of execution to give the document the harm of execution. In this way, the document of the treaty, which has been passed as an actuary document, shall be counted. In order to encourage mediation, the document signed by the parties has been passed as the victim's stamp tax and expenditure. In order for the intermediary operation to be carried out, a separate organization has been organised, and this organization has been carried out by the Ministry of Justice. The ministry envisioned the establishment of a separate agency presidency, and a separate Mediation Board was formed where representatives of different institutions and organisations would participate. As members of the Justice Commission, we have received serious figures and information that while this is not the primary goal of visits to the European countries and the United States, where the mediation is being implemented effectively, the mediation contributes to reducing the judicial burden of concerned countries. Although the numbers have changed from the country to the country, I wish you all to the well-being of the peacekeeping establishment and our bill, which I believe will reduce the burden of judgment and contribute to our culture of social reconciliation, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0174par0103	Thank you, Mr. Sherbetcioğlu. On behalf of him, Sakarya MP Ali Ihsan Yavuz. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0175par0107	Mr. President, I have made a promise to you regarding the Law of Arbitration in Laws 233 rows. I hereby salute the High Council. Negotiation is an institution that will be applied optionally in resolving private law disputes stemming from jobs and transactions that can be saved freely, and will never eliminate the right to use a person's judicial means, unless it harms the absolute sovereignty of the state's jurisdiction, a simple, easy, and compromise of conflicts. Interrogation is the most important of alternative conflict solutions. In recent years, many countries have been engaged in alternative conflict solutions, especially mediation. While we are late, it is very meaningful that a draft law on mediation is drawn up. This bill has been carefully handled by the Justice Commission, and has been passed through the commission with a good assessment of the practices of many states in this regard. I want to make it very clear that there is no room for any of the doubts that the opposition party members have raised. Because even though this mechanism is new, our nation has, in some sense, successfully applied similar methods in the past. During our 20-30-year visit to the state of Wisconsin of the United States of America, where the method of mediation has been implemented, your history of a judge has a rich example and practice of alternative conflict solutions. We've learned a lot about this from your history. It makes sense to say that. Indeed, we believe that as a nation of very rich historical and cultural backgrounds, the method of reconciliation will soon be established, accepted, and, in addition to reducing the workload, contribute to the development of the social peace and reconciliation environment -- God willing. We cannot participate in any criticism of opposition parties regarding the method of intermediary. The civilized world, especially the method of intervening, is trying to improve and more importantly every day to develop alternative conflict solutions. In fact, some countries have made it necessary for the parties to seek mediation before they are prosecuted for some discrepancies, such as Germany and Greece. In some countries, the application for mediation is encouraged, such as Spain, Italy, and England. In some countries, the application for mediation -- as in this bill -- has been entirely left to the will of the parties. As a matter of fact, such are the arrangements in France, Belgium, Austria, Bulgaria and Hungary. The opposition's criticism will be pressed against the weak. It is not possible to participate in the opposition's claim. Because it has been decreed that those who have been determined to fail to fulfill the obligations the law has laid down, after the necessary warnings have been issued, may be removed from the record of mediation; again, it has been decided that a person who has violated confidentiality and caused the legal interest of a person to suffer a six-month sentence. In addition, it will always be a matter of intermediation of general law and provisions, and any of the parties under duress will be able to argue, of course, that the deal and compromise are invalid, because their will has always been corrupted by reasons such as algebra, error, and deception. As I've tried to explain and supply, the bill of law has clearly established, principles have been established, the rights and obligations of the mediator are counted one by one, the reasons for the end of wages, expense, education, mediation, and the reasons for the reason for the reciprocal registration of the mediators, and the reasons for the deletion of their registration, which is clearly, clearly, unconcerned to doubt.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0176par0117	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0175par0119	I wish this bill to be a law and a blessing for our country, and once again, I salute the High Council. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Yavuz. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0177par0124	Thank you, Mayor. Question 1: Isn't intermediary the surrender of the power of the law to the law? Question two, wouldn't we have left it at the mercy of the citizen mafia, the cults, by intermediary? Question 3) Is it not the advice of intermediary, mafia and cult justice, and the dissolution of justice? Question 4) Doesn't intermediary count as handing over the robe of the law to other robes? The question 5) Even if intermediary was done with the hands of lawyers, does it not mean that casting in this area has brought monopoly? The question 6) Is it not a matter of intermediary, where justice is removed from the judgment of the nation and handed over to uncertain hands to decide for whom? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0178par0132	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0179par0134	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, the questions Mr. Tanal. Of course, they're all related questions. In fact, it's useful to consider it as a single question. For one thing, it's not the mediation process, it's the removal of the jurisdiction from the judicial authorities and giving it to the mediator. You know, Turkey has a savings in its adoption and implementation of decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights. From there, decisions on friendly solutions come together from time to time and sides, offering friendly solutions. If you look again, when our workers go on strike, if they don't agree on a collective agreement about this, it's going to go to an arbitration board with the government. The board of judges is sitting down, making a decision, binding the government, tying them up. Last time, about public officials, you know, the People's Officers Referee Board was formed, and when there was no agreement with the public officials during the collective contract talks, he went there, and he made a decision there, and he tied everyone up. In fact, there's a lot of our law here, and I don't want to count all of it, there are a lot of regulations in many laws that predict the solution to issues through peace. All of these regulations do not mean that judicial authority should be removed from the judicial authorities and given to other authorities. The shorter way of incompatibility, the less costs in the framework of the provisions of the Constitution, and the quicker they contribute to its resolution. In addition, in many countries around the world, there are suggestions for resolving conflicts with one of the alternative solutions. When you look at other countries of the world today -- we had lists of countries in the world -- such as America, Italy, Germany, Austria, many other countries -- I can count, there are dozens of countries here -- that have to do with mediation. I guess these countries didn't plan on handing over their jurisdiction to others while they were organizing the mediation establishment. He doesn't have that in Turkey, and I'd like to express that in particular. Another issue, of course, when you look at this bill of law, is that if there was an arrangement that condemned and forced people to do so, then you're blocking my path, forcing me to seek peace. There might have been a result, but if you look at the bill, we see that the principle of communication is the first important principle. The parties are free to seek a mediator, continue the process, conclude or give up the process. So, if the parties want to apply to the mediator, they can apply to either side, if they want to, one of them wants to, the other doesn't want to, they can't apply, and in the process, he's applied for things that he didn't like, they can either give up or they can end the process or they can stop that process somewhere. This is a matter that will be carried out entirely by the will of the parties. Another issue is that the parties have equal rights either when applying for a mediator or during the entire process, so one concession to another is no worse than the other, and the parties have equal rights. On the other hand, the principle of secrecy is fundamental and everyone's obedience to this principle of secrecy is being dominated. On the other hand, if he's at the stage of the investigation when there should be a trial for execution, whichever court he's going to go to when this conflict is brought to trial...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0180par0139	System locked. One minute, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0179par0140	Of course, it can also be applied. Here the system is completely in accordance with the will of the parties, no one's being handed over to cults, mobs, gangs, blah, blah, blah, blah. Within the law, an alternative solution is being implemented by obeying the requirements of the state of law. It's extremely wrong to look for any other meaning under it, and I'd like to express it in particular.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0180par0141	There are other questions, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0181par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just said it in my speeches. Now, in Italy, the barrooms have appealed to the Supreme Court on the charge that the anti-constitutional law is unconstitutional. There are also criticisms in Belgium that mediation will destroy the nation's state, and a federal commission is set up in Belgium, consisting of two lawyers, two notars and two mediators, and under this commission all intermediary activities are controlled, an autonomous structure is created. In our bill, however, the Ministry of Justice has been given these powers directly, and it is clear that the Ministry of Justice has an arm to run. So our motions for autonomous construction have not been accepted. And that's when addiction to an administration, addiction to governance, the creation of a system that depends on the Ministry of Justice. What are your thoughts on this matter? And Mr. Secretary, you said, you know, in certain matters...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0182par0148	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0183par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. One, isn't mediation a privatisation of law and justice? Two, is there a country that is successful in the countries in which mediation is implemented? Can you give me an example if you have one? Three, if mediation is an institution aimed at reducing the burden of courts, why doesn't the state accept the reunification fee to reduce the burden of courts? Question four, a new profession is being brought in by mediation. So why did you open 67 law schools? Another question is, isn't intermediary already in Article 35 of the Law of Law as it should be? The final question, according to the 140th article of our Constitution, is that judges and prosecutors serve as judicial and administrative judges and prosecutors. These tasks are conducted by judges and prosecutors in the field. Judges carry out their duties based on the independence of the courts and the assurance of judgment. What independence and assurances will mediate on the basis of the task? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0184par0159	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0185par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'd like to ask, isn't that the future of lawyers being sold behind closed doors? Isn't it domestic and foreign capital that's been tried to make all lawyers get poorer and poorer and more willing not to leave their profession to lawyers? Won't it cause this sort of restructuring of the practice of law enforcement? Won't foreign lawyers open up partnerships and ways to start a company? Isn't it especially the fact that foreign capital wants to get a piece of the cases of higher legal fees? With the legal barriers in front of these open up and branching open, do cheap labour force lawyers and foreigners' activities throughout the country want to spread throughout the law? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0186par0165	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Yilmaz, last but not least, I promise you the rest of the time.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0187par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you just said: there's no multi-law here, there's no need to look under it. We have many other institutions that we can resolve with compromise. One of them is, for example, consumer referee committees. The difference in consumer arbitration committees is that everything is done with clarity there, Mr. Secretary. So it's all based on the record, and it's done with clarity, but here, the rule that we're most opposed to and that we think can be abused is the secret rule in Article 4 of the article. If it is confidential, if it is not connected to the protocols, if they demand to be processed or decided in the manner they want, the parties must, in their view, carry out that solution or come up with solutions accordingly.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0188par0171	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0189par0173	Mr. President, I just told you once, in our law, there are a lot of similar regulations, of course, not exactly 100 percent like this, but there are regulations that remind us of that. For example, the Court of Law (the Court of Law) shall place a priority task on the judge in Article 137 (the scope of Pre-Study) on the side, in order to promote the parties. In Articles 253 to 256 of the Penal Code, the reconciliation between the suspect and the real or private legal person who has been harmed by the victim or the crime is organised. Under Article 35/a of the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Reconciliation, Article 35/a is the authority to invite lawyers to compromise. In Articles 22, 23, 24, of the Penal Code of the Common Business Convention, Strike and Lokavt Law, if no agreement is reached in public talks, the resolution of conflict is under control by the mediator during the postponement of the strike and lockout period. There are many more laws, let's not count them all. Our law is no stranger to that. In fact, our customs are not foreign. Many issues in the community are known by Turkish customs, according to tradition, by many members of the Grand Assembly that the elders have come together and solved many conflicts before they actually go to trial. Of course, it's a law-compatible method that we've just said in Brazil, Canada, Britain, Greece, the Netherlands, Australia, France and Italy. Other countries also have applications for this. According to Mr. Akagun, mandatory intermediary in Italy has been taken to the Constitutional Court. We don't know the outcome at this time, what was the outcome of it? Let's take a look at him. But in our law, you know mandatory intermediary, you don't. That's not part of the bill at the moment. It's mandatory intermediary taken to the Constitutional Court there. Ours is a compromise based entirely on caution. Of course, the other thing is, why is there an apartment set up in the Department of Justice? Sure, we're setting up a new establishment. This establishment needs to develop when it's being established. As a matter of fact, at the next stage, I think it would be helpful to have a more independent structure. But since it's new, there may be other assessments, as well -- as in other countries -- in the process of establishing institutionalization by an expert structure in this area, since many more issues will be created, but we think it's useful to see these early applications. For this reason, an agency head of the General Directorate of Legal Affairs will be established and organised by it. Can a new arrangement be made in the future? After the results have been seen, there will be, of course, measures that can be taken, perhaps further steps together, if there are irregular directions, wrong directions, missing directions. On the other hand, the part about lawyers and lawyers is in the bill, as far as I know... who's going to be the intermediary when friends are asking questions, who's going to be the finder, who's going to be the finder of law graduates? Of course, when I looked at world examples, they didn't just miss it in other countries. There are a lot of people; there are people in court, there are psychologists, there are even countries that don't know any classes, who have adopted regulations that predict that anyone can be appointed as mediators, but right now, in the report adopted by the Justice Commission, there is an arrangement that there will be mediators among lawyers, lawyers. That's why lawyers come out of law school. So there's an arrangement here, too. I see this arrangement, perhaps, as important as the establishment of this system, as well as the ownership of the system -- because it has a direct relationship with the legal world -- and I think it's very important that the bar owns it by the lawyers and strengthens its implementation. He doesn't exclude lawyers, he basically builds a system on lawyers, but it's the right thing to expand it. Otherwise, other than the lawyers, there may be people in the license, in the truth, who care about people's word, who care about their decision, and not only should we miss it in other countries, but now that it's a transition period -- my opinion is different, but because of a transition period here -- it's envisioned in the draft that this should be done between law graduates and jurisprudences. Otherwise, lawyers, lawyers are not excluded, they are not allowed to do any work; rather, a new opportunity is provided for the lawyers by this bill. I've just told you, there is no liquidation of any justice here, there is no power of justice, but the suggestion of alternative solutions. It's the right thing to do, the whole world is doing it, and so are we. So other countries don't have problems doing this, they get good results, they get good things from their own perspective, and we, as Turkey, took a step towards that.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0190par0181	Can you give me an example, Mr. Secretary? Can you give me a country that's a success?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0189par0182	In the past -- if you do -- there have been some arrangements made in the Penal Code -- and there has been some very important debates in Parliament when there has been an agreement, and there have been some very good discussions here when the new establishments have been established about the dismissal of the ruling, but in time, we all have taken steps to ask ourselves, "Can we expand the scope of it a little bit more?" When it's new, of course, there are some concerns, there are criticisms, but if they're the right establishment, if there's trouble with the application, we'll change it together.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0191par0183	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0190par0184	Would you show a successful example?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0189par0185	But all of this is also very important for the strengthening of the law in Turkey, for the citizens to find a solution to their problems. The parties agreed, went to a mediator, negotiated together, they found a solution as a result of this negotiation, and if this solution satisfy both sides, it would be wrong to appreciate it and to be happy about it. Otherwise, it would be wrong to take a different meaning from here.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0191par0186	Mr. Secretary, we're out of time and we're out of time.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0192par0187	It's in Article 35 of the Law of Law, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0189par0188	And here's the end of something about Mr. Dilek Haným.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0191par0189	Mr. Secretary, we're out of time.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0189par0190	And that's the principle of secrecy, that I think it's about sharing issues about negotiations with others, or the talks here, these, all of these are being recorded and written in a certain way, and they're finally getting a certain ability to do things. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0191par0192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0193par0193	I'm sorry, are you going to answer in writing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit03spe0191par0194	Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0191par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 233. The commission and the government are in place. The talks on chapter one were complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are two motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st draft of the current 233 rows of law. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that the last sentence of his joke be changed in the following way. These laws do not apply to discrepancies involving criminal claims. Faruk Bal Enver Erdem Sinan Okan T. B. M. Head of Parliament. This is the 1st draft of the current bill 233 rows. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Kamer Young Refik Eryılmaz Mevlüt Dudu Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0194par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0191par0021	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0195par0022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0191par0023	Mr. Young, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0196par0025	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding the removal of the first amendment from the proposal text of Bill 233. My respects to all of you. Of course, there is no serious institution called the government in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, whose seats are empty. One minute there's another minister coming in, the next minute there's another minister coming in. Besides, 90 percent of ministers don't have the right to sit in front of this Assembly because they don't have the faces to answer the questions we're going to ask here. It requires an honorable conduct here. This honorable act requires resignation. So you don't have to face the House. If you can't afford to sit in the government and answer the questions the lawmakers will ask, then why do you rule? Then go sit in your house. Now, friends, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. In the state of law, the authority of every institution is established by the constitution, which is the 6th article of our Constitution. No institution or institution can use a state authority that does not receive its source from the Constitution... Now, in order for the intermediary establishment to be legalized here, you have to have a constitutional authority. According to our Constitution, this is an act of judgment. You take the trial from the courts and give it to a separate institution called intermediary. In order for such an arrangement to be made, the Constitution must have a authority on this, so this is what was brought in -- yes, because sometimes they bring an offer -- first of all, it is against the Constitution. So whoever does not take its origin from the Constitution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can't use a state authority, can't bring a mediating system. That's how you get back to the cath system. One of the things about the AKP is that, you know, in this regime, in order to take the state of the Republic of Turkey out of the legal system and turn it into a regime in the Vehhabis, Saudi Arabia, there's no law anymore. Now, we've just been asked, our friend Mahmoud Tanal asked, he said: "When this law comes, the congregations, cults, gangs will intervene, and they will solve some problems this way." Of course, Mr. Bekir, who sits during the government, has a mind for such things, but he doesn't really speak the truth from the Indian, which is the truth. Now, what will Turkey do when you open up a road like this in a place where gangs, mafias, a certain group of people are strong? He's going to go, or he's a gangster, or he's going to go, or he's going to go, and he's going to grab the citizens in the most just cause, and he's going to say, "Come, let's solve this way. He won't be able to resist, but without this system, there's no way to resort to it. In fact, this system used to be very powerful for people who believed in the Flame. You know, grandpa used to go to the village once a year, and before he was in the village, he gathered people, people who complained to each other, people who earned each other's rights, they made a congregation there, and everybody would obey that congregation, but that's a very different subject. I mean, people who really believe... and the judge of that should be very neutral. Then this establishment broke down. Mr. Mehmet Shandir, who had spoken on the whole bill before, said: "Now, let the bully of the neighborhood take care of these things. I mean, what's the need for trial?" With this system that you've brought in, go to the bully in the neighborhood, you see, you don't need the courts, you don't need the courts... Here's what you see, you're pushing the law aside, you're pushing the law aside, you're pushing the bully in the neighborhood, you're going to the cultist, you're going to the parish, you're going to the community, and then you're going to figure it out... Of course, as this whole system is contrary to the Constitution, there's not much obvious about it, either, so the agreement reached as a result of this mediation to the full degree of activity of the final report, so this is going to be in a warrant order? Will those who have received this sentence, who have reached an agreement after the mediation system has been established, go back to court or not? There is not much clarity about that -- it says that it is a decree, but it is in the 23rd or 24th article. Of course, sir, we'll bring in some offers, some laws, and then we'll change them. Since there was no government here at the time of AKP's power, some people are already doing such practices. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0197par0037	Thank you. Mr. Young. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0198par0039	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit04spe0197par0040	I will, sir. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0197par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the Tunceli MP Kamer Young and his friends' motion on the 1st article of the Law Bill 233 rows. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st draft of the current 233 rows of law. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that the last sentence of his joke be changed in the following way. These laws do not apply to discrepancies involving criminal claims. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0199par0010	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0197par0011	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0200par0012	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0201par0013	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0197par0014	I'm reading the reason: It is the right of the state to judge the crime. This right and its authority of judgment are used by independent courts in accordance with the law and the Law of Punishment, which previously carries a specific sentence. The draft text excludes violence within the family law in a limited and limited way, including the work that carries the foreign element. This is possible to abuse international criminal organizations' crimes, including black money, under legal conflict cover or to exonerate their criminal activities. The motion was given to close this abuse door. Those of you who have accepted this motion that I've made you read... those who have refused... are not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd amendment to the Law Incompatibility bill we're talking about. Article 1 of the article. A) We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the declaration of the peacekeeping board with respect for the addition of the declaration. Mahmut Tanal Tutor Köse Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Lightthrower Free İhsan Özkes Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0202par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0197par0033	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0203par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0197par0035	Mr. Tezcan, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0204par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're meeting with the High Council of Laws on Laws 233. It has already been expressed in talks on general, in alternative conflict resolution methods, under which the system of noncompromising is being brought into our legal system, in a sense, through mediation in the framework of law conflicts. It's a new system, it's a new system for Turkey, it has applications in different parts of the world; we've gone, we've seen, we've looked. It's a new system for Turkey, and we're trying to install it. Dear friends, there is a mention of the real person in the second article (a) of the bill, who conducts intermediary activity and is registered in the intermediary records of the meeting parties organised by the ministry. In the amendment proposal, we propose that the intermediary record, which is held here in the first place, should be taken out in the first place, not in the first place, but in the first place, on the intermediary record. The reason, my dear friends, is that we're putting together a new method of dissension, and while we're putting it in place, we're creating a new profession in Turkey, in a sense, called intermediary. Now, when we look at the ongoing materials of the bill, we determine who the mediators are going to be, we determine how they're going to be elected, we state what conditions they're subject to, we determine what responsibilities are, we set a record for them. We're trying to determine how to save this record, how to erase it. We determine that they will work on the basis of secrecy, and we make judgments on their responsibility. Therefore, we arrange for them to receive a fee. We're organizing that they can get paid for their activities. Dear friends, this is clearly creating a new profession. So what we're going to create is a profession that is now fundamental in our time, which in a sense resembles a free trade activity, and because of its mission to solve conflict, we're creating a profession that is very similar to public service. It's not right in this frame to deliver this directly to a record held by the Justice Department, under the control of the administration. If we want such a profession to develop in the coming period, especially if we want the mediation institution to be established, we have to organize this profession by forming a mediation board in the way it deserves, by forming a professional organisation, just like the barrooms. Look, Article 135 of the Constitution is open. In Article 135 of the Constitution, the institutional institutions of the public institution are mentioned, and it has been part of our constitution as a constitutional provision for the establishment of public institutional institutions in order to maintain that professional order in the implementation of professions. We now claim that we're trying to organize the intermediary institution in modern measurements, but on the other hand, when we're organizing this profession, we're putting it directly under the control of management. This is a serious contradiction. Our motion is a motion to resolve this contradiction, at which point we expect your support. Sure, we've been having some interesting times. Look, we've all watched the concerns about mediation together. Our fellow speakers expressed their hesitation as to whether or not an alternative judicial process is being created, or whether an executive trial is being created. Some of the barrooms and organizations also express their reservations. Dear friends, I'm afraid that in Turkey we are now entering the process of law enforcement with the support of a feva, as if it would justify these reservations. The President of the Religious Affairs began to launch and publish a fatwa on abortion yesterday. The Prime Minister comes out, Mr. Prime Minister says you're going to make an arrangement for the abortion. One day later, the President of Religious Affairs is coming out, and he's posting a fatwa about abortion. If you begin to establish a fetal-backed law enforcement habit in the Turkish legal system, then you will not be able to overcome the hesitations in the society's mind as you pass these laws.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0205par0048	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0204par0049	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0205par0051	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0206par0054	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0205par0055	You want roll call. There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Korutuk, Mr. Young, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Ören, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Oz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Erdoğdu. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Mr Mehmet Ölturk, Hatay MP... Mr. Adam Dessert, Congressman of Giresun... here. All right, then, we've got enough. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've got enough meetings, we're one short, sir. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are two motions on the third article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 3rd amendment to the Law Incompatibility Act. Article 2. We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the phrase "a" and "a" instead of "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" word or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or Mahmut Tanal İhsan Özkes Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Flood Köse Ali Riza Özturk Aytüğ Thrower Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 1. The one in his joke: They are free to apply, continue the process, conclude, or give up the process. They are free to apply, continue the process, conclude or give up the process or dismiss the mediator and appoint a new mediator. We propose and propose that it be changed in the form of supply and mediation. Faruk Bal Enver Erdem Sinan Okan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0207par0090	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0205par0091	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0208par0092	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0205par0093	I'm reading the reason: The sentence structure of matter has been made in accordance with language rule. In addition, this motion was made to allow the parties to continue the process of reconciliation with another tool by dismissing the mediator they realized would not be able to reach a compromise. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 3rd amendment to the Law Incompatibility Act. Article 2. We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the phrase "a" and "a" instead of "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" word or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0209par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0205par0104	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0210par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0205par0106	Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0211par0108	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the third amendment of the underlying law of infraction. I salute you all. The equality there tells us equality on all sides, but in the countries we've gone to, we've seen that equality is not an absolute equality, especially the judge, the economic power between the parties, or other things. My dear friends, the 2nd article of our Constitution states that the republic is a state of law when it defines its qualities. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ -- here they are -- saying that special courts are courts that shouldn't be in a normal legal state. I was just saying that since the 23rd term, the 24th term. Mr. Secretary, I mean, why did you have to wait so long to tell me this? In the 23rd term, since these special authorities were courts that should not be in a normal state of law, I had made a motion to propose a law on the removal of special authorities, which we repeated in the 24th term. Now, what I'm thinking is, is Turkey an abnormal law state? So in 2004, CMK -- 250, 251, 252 -- was released in this period of power concerning these special authorities. Why was it removed? If then Turkey is not a state of law or a state of law, then there should be no private court of authority. I don't think it should be acted out because it's a law state. Of course, you said that there had to be some events in order for the needs to be met. You say that it is born of necessity and that it will survive as long as the need continues, but the needs will not last forever, but you can appreciate, Mr. Secretary, that needs, the needs of the society in the state of law, the principles of the state of law, and the institutions that are supposed to exist in the state of law. So if society's needs are removed from the principles of the law state by the hand of the institutions that should not be, as you call them, then, as you call them, then it can be said that, you know, in this country, they said that the impacts were also caused by necessity, and there is a logic like this: torture in the police stations, and tortures are said to be caused by necessity. Of course, in a democratic law state, to satisfy the needs of society, institutions that are legal must be built. In this regard, I don't think it's acceptable to explain, on the grounds of a need, the violation of the special authorities' legal state. So it's a joy to hear that private courts that shouldn't really be in this legal state are disturbing the entire population, and that this disease is also seen in the ruling group -- and I've said so on the stand since then -- it's a joy. Mr. Minister, especially a minister of law, our Deputy Prime Minister, today, is a happy place for the law, for the state of law. I mean, I'm celebrating, Mr. Bozdağ, and I'm really happy about it, and there's nothing going on here. Together, I think we should remove these institutions that shouldn't be in the state of law, and instead, if we really need them in the state of law, I think there's no doubt that we should be able to satisfy those needs with the hands of institutions that should be in the legal state, and I look forward to your initiatives. I've got a law proposition, it's on the dusty shelves of the Justice Commission. If you haven't had the opportunity to study it, I'd appreciate it if you'd look into it. No, you might not like him, but then you'll have a suggestion, we'll all sit down together, we'll make it a legal institution, we'll work things out together. Minister, I look forward to your efforts in this matter. Thank you. I pay my respects, my friends.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0212par0117	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th draft of the law-compromising bill we're discussing. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The 4-Madde does not bind the agreements made during the mediation talks. Mahmut Tanal Tutor Köse Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ihsan Özkes Aytuğ Thrower Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0213par0131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0212par0132	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0214par0133	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0212par0134	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0215par0135	Gürkut Acar will speak, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0212par0136	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0216par0137	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 4 of Bill 233. I salute you. The rule of law in Turkey, along with the AKP, has been rescinded, justice has been rescinded, and a stone is now added as long as Turkey is being dragged. Look at the laws that have recently emerged from the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Undersecretary of the MIT Law and his staff were abducted from the judiciary. The 10th article of Law No. 6300 was authorized by the Council of Ministers for court decisions concerning privatisation procedures, so the court's decisions were left to the Prime Minister's pleasure. The way of suing citizens has been closed with the thirteenth article of Law No. 6292. 6306 has been prevented from deciding whether to stop the execution by the Law on the Converting Areas Under the Disaster. The law blocks the way to court, along with the law, and there are the heads of the court, my dear friends. The Minister of Energy says: "I have met with the President of the Constitutional Court and the Chief Prosecutor's Office, and they will now take a positive approach to energy projects." The Chief Public Prosecutor says: "There is no longer a decision to stop the execution." The Minister of Health says, "Let the child be delivered, and the state will take care of it." He says, "The state advocates the most severe violence for the woman." The President of Religious Affairs says that abortion is forbidden and sinful unless it is legal. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is ignoring court decisions with its laws, blocking the citizens' way of seeking rights, seeking justice. The presidents of the Supreme Court applaud that. What kind of law is that? The President of the Religious Affairs is coming into position to give a fatwa. What kind of secularism is that? Is a system where there is no justice, the limit of legitimacy is based on religion called a secular, democratic law state? Dear friends, in an environment where the law is turned upside down, the intermediaries are added to run the law at a time when almost a Ulema is similar to the fetish system. That should be very careful. Under our recommendation, we recommend that the confidentiality of Article 4 be lifted. It's also stated in the commission, written in opposition, which needs to be corrected. See, non-disclosure issues cannot be inspected. If the record is not held and sent to court, there will be a separate trial. That is the opinion of the Ankara Bar, Prof. Dr. That is the view of Baki Kuru. Discretion leads to multi-law. If the report is not reported to the judge, it is not possible to check whether cult, ritual or mafia law is being enforced. Multi-law divides the country, my dear friends. The principle of secrecy is not acceptable in the process of resolving legal disputes, just as everything is common after the adoption of the indictment in the courts. The reason for the bill is that the most important factor in mediation is that the courts are open. If it is confidential, different issues, different relationships, will be on the agenda. Besides, when a person tells their relatives, friends, when the matter is being discussed in the mediator, will the principle of secrecy be violated? What size is this? There's no measurement, but there's punishment. That's the only sanction in the bill, and anyone who violates confidentiality will be sentenced to six months in prison. This will also cause trouble for those who seek their due but are weaker. Therefore, the process must be kept transparent, open. Our proposal as CHP is that instead, the agreement in the mediation action will not connect the parties. I look forward to your support for the acceptance of the motion, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0217par0152	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5: Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President This is the 5th draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 3. We propose and propose the addition of the statement "the information mentioned in the first joke is about to come after the declaration" of a crime or against the request of the authorities if investigated." Faruk Bal Enver Erdem Sinan Okan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 5th draft of the law of mediation incompatibility bill. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The person who is a mediator in the resolution of conflict between the parties can testify with the acceptance of the parties when the legal case for conflict is filed or applied to the path of inquiry." Ali Özgündüz Ali İhsan İktürk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Haydar Akar Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0218par0169	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0217par0170	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0219par0171	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0220par0172	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0217par0173	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0221par0175	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I said that in my speech on chapter one. In fact, it's probably one of the most dangerous substances in the bill. Under the rules of secrecy, under the conditions set by the parties, by the mediator who will conduct intermediary activities in the manner set by the parties. Now, Mr. Secretary has just said: "In fact, in our law, there are these kinds of regulations." He mentioned the consumer arbitration committee, other arbitration committees, but they all have a publicity; they all have a record. It's very clear what to write about, what to discuss, what to negotiate, what to compromise on, what to compromise on, and what rules to do this work according to. People in consumer arbitration committees, for example, who are on the consumer arbitration board, are looking at the application, looking at the legal arrangement, getting expert examination if necessary, and then making decisions. And their decision is to go to court on an appeal. Now, why is there secrecy here when there are such clear arrangements? After the secrecy, however, Article 5 of the Fifth Amendment states that some evidence may not be required or requested by any other court or by an administrative unit, which has been presented in the process of mediation. Now, then, we're going to have a problem with this -- there needs to be a report on the start of the intermediary activity, in order to stop the denominating period and the statute of limitations. Now, the citizens disagreed and went to court. They also have to prove to the court that this deniability period has been cut due to the start of intermediary activity. When they file this report, will these people violate the confidentiality code? If they violate the confidentiality code, will they face a six-month prison sentence? Then what will these people do? They won't be able to appeal to the court. Here, it brings so many dangerous arrangements. Now, as we all know, especially the lawmakers know that Baki Kuru -- a prayer legal procedure, as he clearly stated -- is clearly against the Constitution, a judicial action carried out within the rules of secrecy. So any information, any document, should be tied to the report, and these should be submitted to the court unless there's a settlement, which, at that time, is either a committee or a system that helps the court. Instead, if you just make a deal behind secret doors, set up a procedure, and run a mediation operation according to it, only if the results come out, if you don't document the rules for it, if you don't report them, if you don't write them down, there are questions in our heads all the time. Are there rules of tradition, mafia, gangs, cults here? How did you come to this agreement? Has the woman ever been told that you have no inheritance? By Islamic law, you have an inheritance; your brother has two inheritances; this will be done. Is a neighborhood pressure created? How did the certificate come about? So if these aren't documented with the transcripts, if they're not within the scope of confidentiality, then these question marks are born here. When we say alternative Qaeda judgment, that's what we're basing it on. That's why I'm saying it's one of the most dangerous substances in the world. Therefore, this rule of secrecy must be removed from the bill. Instead, just as with the peace agreements, I think that if we bring in an arrangement to make sure that the parties don't tie themselves up during this meeting, we'll eliminate the inconveniences. When the changes in these two very important articles are made in the same way that we say in Articles 4 and 5 will be reduced to the lowest level. We make the change in the 5th article, and we say: "Interviewers can also testify, which they should. " In fact, when we discuss this in the Commission, perhaps some of our friends have actually thought positive thoughts. Why can't the negotiator testify with the parties? I think it's wrong that we're making an arrangement here that even if there are parties in the 5th Amendment, the mediator can't testify. Four and five, given the two of them together, I really think we're dealing with some of the most dangerous substances in this bill. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0222par0183	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 3. We propose and propose the addition of the statement that "the information mentioned in the first joke is about to come" in case of prosecution or investigation of a crime, against the request of the authorities." Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0223par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0222par0190	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0224par0191	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0225par0192	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0222par0193	I'm reading the reason: The way the article is written includes the fact that if a crime is prosecuted or investigated, the evidence of this crime will not be given to the authorities if the authorities ask for it. This could be an obstacle to a criminal trial. The evidence of the misdemeanor criminal offenders may use this form of substance to cloud criminal evidence, prevent it from being brought before a criminal trial. I submit to your votes this motion that I have given you, that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 6th draft of the Law of Negotiation Incompatibility Act. Article 2. We respectfully offer and propose that his joke be removed from the text. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Flood Köse Musa Pine Haydar Akar Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0226par0210	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0222par0211	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0227par0214	Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0222par0215	Here you are, Mr. Danishoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0228par0217	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding Article 6 of the Compromise of Negotiation Act in Law Number 233. I salute you all. There are two main reasons for the government to bring up the Anti-Alignment Bill in Law Incompatibility: First is compliance with the European Union's acquisitor, and second is abolition of the judiciary's workload with alternative conflict solutions. When we consider the bill in line with the European Union's acquisitor, we see that the mediation system does not need to be regulated by a new law, as you know, in 2001, Article 35/A was added to the Law on Law to ensure reconciliation. According to this arrangement, lawyers can invite the opposing party to compromise with their clients before the trial or even before the trial begins. If the opposition agrees and compromise is reached, the report will be signed by lawyers and their clients. As a result, encouraging lawyers to activation, development and reconciliation of the Law of Law will already open the way for conflict to be resolved in this way. Thus, we already have an arrangement in line with the acquish of the European Union to create alternative solutions to conflicts. We obey the European Union's acquisitor. (ÇT/TK) If we have a goal and concern for the acquish of the European Union, we need to make sure that the structure of the boards we're building is neutral and independent. That's what the European Union means by democratization. If we can't meet this independence requirement in institutions and boards, then the work that's already done has nothing to do with harmonisation with the European Union. That's the same problem with the law on law enforcement. This commission was created as a mechanism to prevent increasing rights violations of law enforcement officers. However, the commission is established within the Ministry of Interior, without any autonomy. And with the law we're talking about, there's going to be a reunification agency. And here we have the weight of the Justice Department bureaucrats and the control of the Office of the Ministry. Again, we see a structure free of independence, dependent on execution. As the minister responded to such criticism recently, we aim for the institution to sit on solid foundations as we set out on the road. Do we have to understand from here that the Turkish Bar Association and our bar offices, which should be the main weight in the institution, are not considered a solid basis? Dear lawmakers, the government's second purpose for bringing this law is to ease the workload of the judiciary with alternative conflict solutions. The protection of an impartial and independent judicial system, the quick and efficient work of this system, is the government's primary duty. It is unacceptable to predict an alternative judicial system to mitigate the work of the judiciary. But in the overall scope of the bill, there is concern that the medialisation system the government wants to bring is an alternative to the judiciary. While drafting a bill and preparing a bill that will affect our judicial system in particular, we need to take into account the specific conditions of that country, its own sensitivities. In critical areas such as social and economic power, especially custody, alimony, inheritance, the property regime, pressure and threat will be a potential result of this law. It seems there's also the danger of overriding different judicial systems, such as cults, tribal rules, customs, of the intermediary system that they're trying to bring in, which I'd like to point out. By focusing solely on the solution of conflict, you cannot establish right and right, nor can you achieve justice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0229par0227	Thank you, Mr. Danishoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibles we're discussing. Article 3. We respectfully offer and offer that his joke be changed in the following way. (3) Negotiation should be terminated within six months, tops. If the parties do not agree at the end of the time, if otherwise not, the negotiator will be paid half of the minimum fee set at the timetable equally by the parties. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Flood Köse Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0230par0241	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0229par0242	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0231par0243	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0229par0244	Mr. Dudu, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0232par0246	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party regarding the 7th Amendment bill in Law Incompatibility. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, our motion is to limit the mediation activity to six months at the most for each discrepancy, and if the parties cannot agree otherwise, half of the fee set for the negotiator will be paid equally by the parties. The aim here is to prevent the harm done by the parties if the conflict continues to persist, and to repay the mediator part of its efforts. Mr. President, how is it that the law, which exists, which has been passed by the AKP government lately, doesn't exist? How to mix things up with the new law? This time the button was pressed to get jurisdiction from the courts. Interrogation is a judicial activity. This law is technically against the 6th and 9th Articles of the Constitution. Article 9 of the Constitution states that the jurisdiction of the Turkish nation can be used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation, but some of the bill of mediation and its jurisdiction will be handed over to certain people. Even if this system is made entirely by lawmen, it is ultimately a form of modernity.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0233par0250	What's that got to do with anything? It's not the same activity. It's wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0232par0251	Right, right. Dear lawmakers, do the AKP want to take a step forward in establishing the multi-laws it speaks of at different times? Consider the prime minister's speech at Ankara University's opening ceremony in October 2010. The Prime Minister said: "We are the heirs of different groups of beliefs to make their own judgments, if necessary. Hopefully, in the future, we will take on such a leading role. This is the beginning of an understanding that will eliminate democracy, the legal state, the modern understanding of the state, as the AKP government has always done. Will the wall of the foundations on that day begin to be built by this law? Dear lawmakers, there are already solutions in our legal system that are similar to the model to which we are asked to be brought in by mediation. In accordance with the Law of Laws, the provisions of peace and arbitration are carried out. In addition, the Article 35/A of the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Peace has been ruled that lawyers can invite the other side to compromise with their clients, and in the case of reconciliation, the charge shall be carried out in the terms of Article 38 of the Law on Deputation. When the necessary arrangements are made in this context, the law that we have already discussed will not be needed, and the system will continue to function when the requirements are appropriate. There are not enough reasons to explain why this law is needed. Speeding up the judgment, lightening the burden of the judgment is not a sufficient reason. Recently, the Justice Department has been focusing its attention on speeding up the judiciary. Of course, the late justice isn't justice, but the swift judgment isn't enough. The purpose of the judgment must be to achieve true and true justice. For this, a quality law education and qualified judges must be provided first. But what we see here is that in the name of a swift trial, there is a concession from quality and fair judgment. With this bill, the citizens' rights and laws have been abandoned at the mercy of the Mafia, cults and congregations. The judge's control has been limited and this has been opened. As a result, the judge's supervision will be only in terms of mediation and whether the outcome will be in line with the procedure. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This arrangement will also open the way for the strong to crush the weak. We, the Republican People's Party, will vote against this bill. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0234par0260	Thank you, Mr Dudu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 1. We offer and propose that the last sentence of his joke be changed in the following way. "The parties can participate in negotiations and negotiations with the negotiator themselves or their representatives or together." Faruk Bal Enver Erdem Sinan Okan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 8th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibles we're interviewing. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. "Made 8-With the approval of the mediators, he can meet and communicate with each of the parties separately or together. The parties can also participate in these talks through their lawyers." Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmoud Tanal Flood Köse Musa Çam Candan Güceler Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0235par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0234par0282	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0236par0283	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0234par0284	Mr. Hosier, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0237par0286	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 8 of the Law of Negotiation of Law 233. I salute your high council. I'm sending a salute to the lawmakers who have been under arrest for years, whose business is clear, their address is clear, but their crimes are unknown. By the will of the nation, lawmakers elected by the votes of the nation have been arrested for years without proven crimes, without even the right to defend them, without prepared indictments. Journalists, academics, soldiers have been under arrest for years. But at the Lighthouse, Germany's fraud case of the century. Strangely enough, at the Lighthouse he called it, the suspects did not travel for a month, but three years free. No one feared that they would escape, and no one said that they could black out. After two and a half months, more imprisonment means punishment. However, three prosecutors facing the Lighthouse case have been suspended, and they have been investigated. Where's justice? Where's the legal conscience? At the same time, the AKP MP accuses us of having a background and search for secret agendas for opposition lawmakers in connection with the bill we're negotiating. Look, if there's a disease, if there's a question that we're asking you to answer, that you're trying to cover up the law, the injustice, the corruption, and the fact that you're trying to distort the truth, and use every opportunity to strengthen your political authority in health as well as in the health programme, as in the Constitutional referendum, without thinking about the future of this country, 4+4+4. How healthy a system without serious judicial reform is the mediation presented with expectations of reducing the workload, accelerating the judiciary? Without increasing the number of qualified independent judges, without the independence of the judiciary, these provisions will deepen the problems of our legal system and turn it into an inextricable maze. Dear lawmakers should know and believe that they are equal in the eyes of the law, regardless of gender, language, religion, race, profession, religion, education, disability. When they have good reason, it is the independent, fair system of justice where the poor can seek the right to the strong, the poor against the rich, the woman against the man, the victim against the guilty. Even in European countries, where the bill is cited as an example, the system is not fully established. Even in the Netherlands, even one of the oldest countries to apply mediation can solve very little discrepancy. What are we aiming for in our future democracy, which has developed a sense of right and justice, democratic culture, even in countries where the judiciary is independent, and what are we looking for in the future democracy, which is pepper spray peppers? I'm obviously very curious. Dear friends, as opposition MPs, we have legitimate concerns. Yes, we are concerned that the intermediary institution will be dependent through the Justice Department, that it will not be independent of political power, the current structure of the mediation institution, that it will lead to an alternative and direct ruling judicial system to independent and impartial courts, that workers who are the vulnerable part of its work life will suffer from the loss of rights behind closed doors, divorce, alimony and inheritance. Yes, dear friends, because that's our right reason for the judge to decide over the paperwork, regardless of the driver's license, without listening to the parties. Yes, they're all possibilities, but in fact, they're real in the future, because in my country, one of every three women gets violent, one of ten get physically violent during pregnancy, and every three or five women get slaughtered in a way that the mind can't understand. Yeah, in my country, they're trying to be normalized in the name of honor, ritual killings. Dear friends, in my country, there's a Prime Minister who's not surprised by the violence, violence, violence, but who's not surprised by the bad cheer of women watching the stadium, who's terrified of how many children women are going to give birth to, how she's going to give birth, how she's going to care for her child, how she's going to give birth, how she's going to give birth, how she's going to give birth to a future. In my country, there's a life imposed on women, young people, citizens, roles cut out. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we're really here to eat grapes, I really think that mediation, that this institution should be independent, that education and control mechanisms work well, that the judiciary should have independence and the power must withdraw from the judiciary. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0238par0300	Thank you, Your Highness. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 1. We offer and propose that the last sentence of his joke be changed in the following way. "The parties can participate in negotiations and negotiations with the negotiator themselves or their representatives or together." Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0239par0308	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0238par0309	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0240par0310	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0241par0311	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0238par0312	I'm reading the reason: The parties will be able to participate in the mediation talks itself or through their representatives. Article 6. It's also written in his joke. Negotiations and negotiations may mean two different things, but they hold contact with the negotiator. The application needs to be edited in order to avoid confusion and misunderstanding. While this is being carried out by the motion, it allows one of the parties to meet with the mediator and negotiate with the opposition. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I make read: Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President It's the 9th draft of the current 233 rows of the law. Article 3. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. "The negotiator is obliged to maintain equality among the parties, justice and justice in the matter of conflict." Faruk Bal Enver Erdem Sinan Okan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 9th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibles we're discussing. Article 5 of the following article. And 6. We respectfully offer and offer to add jokes. (5) According to this law, TCK mm is not guilty of a more severe criminal act of mediation, unless it constitutes a criminal act that abuses duty and authority. He'll be punished under 257. The rights to compensation are reserved for those who have been harmed. (6) In the course of duty to the mediator and the crimes committed due to his duties, provisions are carried out against the public official. Ali İhsan İkturk Mahmut Tanal Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Aylin Nazlıaka Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0242par0337	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0238par0338	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0243par0339	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0244par0340	Ali Ihsan Kokturk.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0238par0341	Mr. Kokturk, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0245par0343	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party and myself on the motion on Article 9 of the negotiated Arabism Bill. First of all, I salute the High Council. The bill was brought to the Turkish Grand National Assembly to speed up the judiciary and to contribute to the resolution of conflicts by improving the culture of reconciliation by reducing the workload of the judiciary, as well as by our friends, who are speaking on the general part of the bill and on the first part. When we look at the basis of the Justice Ministry, which referred this bill to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is said that mediation is the most common and most successful alternative solution among alternative solutions, so according to the Justice Department, according to the Council of Ministers, the political government that sent this bill to the Turkish Grand National Assembly is the most successful and most common of the ways of solutions. However, valuable lawmakers, unfortunately, this understanding of the Justice Department is not in control of the Justice Commission. I'm not just saying this in terms of Republican People's Party MPs, MPs from the National Movement Party, but also in terms of lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party Group. I see a lot of our friends in front of me. In research and study by the Justice Commission in countries such as the United States, Britain, Germany, Austria, unfortunately, it has not contributed to the resolution of conflicts as described in countries described by mediation, on the contrary, which has caused a great uncertainty in the judicial system, especially in which large communities, especially barors, have faced resistance, and the establishment of intermediary is uncertain, and in many countries, in particular the United States. In the United States of America, when we asked for statistical data at meetings with high judicial representatives in the United States, the question that they did not have any statistical data, which applied to any kind of discrepancies, unfortunately, was given different answers by prosecutors, and in responses given by prosecutors in particular, it was evident that mediation was mixed with negotiation method. So in countries that apply this, unfortunately in the United States of America, this system is not considered a negotiation, it is ashamed of the use of the concept of the market system, rather, it has been found to be preferred by the concept of controversy, which is more sympathetic to the concept that it has developed the culture of reconciliation. So the concept of intermediary, unfortunately, is used in the United States as a substitute for the concept of negotiation. Therefore, this system will not solve the problems of Turkey's judiciary. The basis of the bill is emphasised on the right to a fair trial and access to justice in Article 36 of our Constitution, under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Our proposal from here is that if the Ministry of Justice wants the right of the European Convention on Human Rights to find a subsidiary in this country under the 6th Article of the European Convention on Human Rights, it must first address long-term detentions, unfair imprisonments, which are widely and systematically established by the European Court of Human Rights. He must seek solutions to send eight MPs, who have been defamed in the Silivri dungeons, to the ranks of their friends in Parliament, who have been defamed by abstract claims against them. Again, if the Ministry of Justice wants independent and fair judgment, the Judges and Prosecutors must forward arrangements to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to replace the Justice Department with an independent high judge. So this bill, not to solve the problems of the judiciary, unfortunately, is brought to the agenda of Parliament for the purpose of satisfying, pleasing, global powers, and here we are making laws, making laws, making reforms in the judiciary, a product of an understanding that tries not only to get the Turkish people to accept it, but also to the countries in Europe. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, we don't accept that understanding, we're waiting for the arrangements to reach true justice to come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0246par0352	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President It's the 9th draft of the current 233 rows of the law. Article 3. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. The mediator is obliged to maintain equality among the parties, justice and justice in the matter of conflict. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0247par0360	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0246par0361	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0248par0362	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0249par0363	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0246par0364	I'm reading the reason: He will be at equal distance from the parties in negotiations with the mediators and negotiations for the situation of the conflict. But in the heart of the conflict, he will act fair and just. The motion was given as a responsibility to the negotiator, as well as to the principle of equality and the need to act justly and justly. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're discussing. We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the reference to the article after the declaration of the press, and the release of the declaration from the text in its papers. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Haydar Akar Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0250par0381	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0246par0382	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0251par0383	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0246par0384	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Little, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0252par0387	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 10 of the Law on Literacy of Law 233. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, I feel the need to express my opinion on a matter that is on the agenda of our country and our women before I enter into my views on the bill. It's a simple segregation to ignore women's burning problems, to create politics through women's bodies, to claim women's preferences, to make women an instrument of community engineering. It's cruel, to say the least, that women are made material to cover up the slaughter of the nation. This is an injustice to both our women and our citizens and their families, whose lives have been taken from them. I can't swallow it, I can't swallow the way television shows do scripts, and I can't swallow the goal of raising one kind of youth, and I can't swallow the expression of one religion. Dear lawmakers, the bill aims to ease the workload of the courts, it says. That's right, our courts have a lot of work to do, but as you can appreciate, there is a need to reduce the workload of our courts, as well as to establish the neutrality of the judiciary, and an unbiased justice cannot be served. We've witnessed this in many cases. Today, lawmakers are in jail, college students are in jail, college teachers are in jail. Today, there is a threat of jail for all who speak and oppose, from walking to sitting until they cast slogans from egg-throwing in Turkey, and lawsuits are being filed against mayors for water reasons. So what I'm saying is that in order for justice not to be delayed, of course, there's a need to reduce the burden of justice, but first there's the need to make the judiciary independent and neutral. Dear lawmakers, there are many things to criticize the mediation institution for the problems this could cause in our country. These have been expressed in detail by our lawmakers, both members of the European Union's Integration Commission and the Justice Commission. I would like to point out the negativity of the mediation agency in the lives of women of our country. That's true, many European countries have conciliatory institutions, but the problems that those countries face in equality with men and women are different from the problems they face in our country. The authors of this bill ignore that the traditional perspective on the eastern part of our country is so heavy that the woman is especially having problems with her rights to inheritance, that the mediation institution can further increase these problems. To the west and to the east, to the north and to the south, all over Turkey, this traditional structure will have consequences against our women in the matter of inheritance. Similarly, problems in sharing goods during the divorce are ignored. The rights our women have earned in the field of civil law are at stake. So it has to be seen by all of us that the intermediary institution, which is considered a friendly solution, may not have so friendly results in the removal of gender inequality. Dear lawmakers, in the event of this bill's legalisation, we are concerned that our women will be weaker in the face of husband pressure, father pressure, public pressure and traditional structure, and that concern is not unreasonable. Referencing religious rules and religious approaches in addition to the traditions of the mediators will lead to a process that will restrict our women's human rights. As you know, these references predict inconsistencies and constraints, which are incompatible with our civil law, based on the sex of women. You need to be careful about the dangers that this situation may cause. Believe me, our women, who have already been oppressed in social life, seen second-rate, denied rights, and even been condemned, will be even weaker by this bill. Therefore, I feel that mediating activities should not be implemented in discrepancies within the Turkish Civil Code. I believe your high council will consider these concerns, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0253par0396	Thank you, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0254par0399	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0253par0400	I will grant your request, sir. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Düyüker, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Akar, Mr. Trust, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Oz, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Captain, Mr. Little, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Danishoglu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 11 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 11th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're talking about. As required in the article, we respectfully offer and offer the addition of the declaration. Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmut Tanal Haydar Akar Ali Original Flood Köse Musa Pine Sena Kaleli Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0255par0422	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0253par0423	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0256par0424	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0253par0425	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0257par0426	Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0253par0427	Mr. Kaleli, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0258par0429	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 11 of Bill 233. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we have a famous saying: "The word flies and the word stays. " There is a experience that we all face when it comes to the result of a life savings, experience, and vision. We write down what we've been given. In order to be able to trace it, date and number, we report our demands in writing. Even if we trust the words, we'll keep a record of security. As required in Article 11 of the bill's illumination of the sides, it contains the word "efficiency" and uncertainty. In a way, the method used was left to the mediator's discretion. In order to avoid new problems in both the middle and the outcome, the obligation to enlighten the parties must be carried out in writing, because we are human and it is human to forget. It's been a long time since he was a man of his word as a bond. It's the waxed image age where we're not the dominant culture. The managers do not want to listen to reactions, demands of rights. We haven't developed the ability to argue, research, consult, compromise. In this period, Turkey is a society where the strong one, the oppressive one, the rant owner, accepts the situation of the weak as fate, has no knowledge of protective law, trust in the justice and judicial system, is weak, and the dominant power is abused. Laws adopted by the Klan law also bring the delay of the judiciary, and the adoption of people's own justice is legitimised by this system. Multi-lawyness will be added to the concept of division, separation, conflicting that exists in every field. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Cemil Cicek, has reached a consensus between political parties in talks on arrested MPs that Mr. Cicek has been mediating, but the process is blocked with the Prime Minister's uncompromising and uncompromising personality. An abortion, explained by the Uludere metaphor that we cannot agree on, is a sin as much as it is a crime and murder as it is a crime to you, not giving us the right and the unlawful food, the nation and the business murders. Do not apologize, you must ask God for forgiveness. Meetings at the level of universal language and principles of constitutional studies, which have been carried out with the great zeal of the parties, cannot be avoided by the process of writing. With the rumors, the ground has become set up for the exercise of impose their own writings. In a country where universal values can't be internalized, where traditional belonging, tradition and violence are dominant, the right to mediate means handing law over to power. It doesn't matter what power is; sometimes religion abuse, sometimes money, sometimes majority. Remember, there are people you hurt just as much as the fans you gathered in the arena. Therefore, the burden of illumination, the presence of a binding outcome in its content, the rights to have a lawyer if necessary, the net fee they can end the job at any time, the inability to use documents in the process as evidence, should be written in clear terms. If the bill becomes legal in this way, it will create a structure that is not compatible with the reality of sociological life, that is being developed, that is challenging our culture of reconciliation, that is the mafia, the tribe, the community. With these thoughts, I respectfully salute you all, for I believe that every member of parliament, who has been instructed to write down the obligation to enlighten, will be treated with common sense.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0259par0439	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibles we're discussing. In the matter, we respectfully offer and offer the addition of the declaration to be used as a part of the charity. Ali İhsan İkturk Mahmut Tanal Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Balık Köse Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0260par0452	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0259par0453	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0261par0454	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0259par0455	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0262par0457	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I think it would be much better if the amendment to this clause was actually accepted. In particular, poor people in the process of legal aid in courts may be able to benefit much more if the money paid by intermediaries is used from the budget as part of the legal aid budget. Therefore, I ask you to accept this motion. But have you really noticed, though, what motion, what motion you just rejected, friends in Article 9? I have made a specific commitment to be decided on the subject of a technical debate. Article 9 is carefully and objectively carried out the mission by the mediator. Now, what does it mean to carry out the task carefully and objectively? It means that the negotiator does his duty properly, that he does not neglect; that means that the mediator maintains the minutes properly; that he does not take sides, that he does not pressure the parties. The negotiator didn't do it against them, he broke them; there's no law against it, my friends. I'm asking fellow lawyers, friends of the Justice Commission, if there's any sanction in this matter? So what are we really going to punish people for putting pressure on them? There's only one sanction in this bill, and we say: "We'll erase you from the record of the intermediaries. " If you've erased it, you've finished it, but it's damaged people's rights, if it's really been abused by people who rely on that finder, shouldn't it be edited? Even those on the co-op board are tried as public officials, and while they're protected as public officials, the negotiator is any human being. You're giving him almost as much authority as a judge, but you don't know anything about misconduct in the crimes committed by this negotiator. What's he gonna do? What's he gonna do? So we suggested in Article 9 that the mediator be judged as a public official and be protected as a public official. When he has to be judged, when he abuses his duty, when he's ignoring his work, when he's under pressure, he must be judged. Today, a lawyer is on trial for this, judges are on trial, co-op executives are on trial, but the negotiator will not be tried. Let's think about the other side of this: an attack on the mediator, what's going to happen? So if this person is attacked because of this mission, if we don't protect this person, how are we going to get out of this? How are we going to secure the intermediary system? I mean, we really want this to happen, and you guys really want it to happen. On the other hand, the mediator has damaged people, and if he does harm, he must face compensation. I mean, there's got to be a specific arrangement for his punishment and protection. The best place was the 9th article in which the mission was to be carried out carefully and objectively. We need to arrange this here, guys. As the commission said, a new system has just arrived, so let's not scare the negotiators, not scare them... is that the kind of approach, friends? On the contrary, if a new system is coming, people who are going to be involved in this system need to do it seriously, and they need to do it with precision, knowing what this mission means. If we don't set up a system of punishment and protection on this, as a public official, this law will be really lame. So let's decide to renegotiate on the 9th article, so I think we should either take it or assemble it to one of the following articles, or we'll all be under this obligation. I didn't want to be subjected to such a plague, so I wanted to renegotiate, and I wanted to express my sensitivity to it. We'd appreciate it if you'd be so sensitive about this, we have a request on behalf of our group. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0263par0464	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're talking about. Article 1 of the article. The addition to the joke, after the declaration of the parties, or to the addition of the declaration of the Attorneys, Your bill is 13. Article 2. We respectfully submit and propose that one of the parties will submit an application to the mediator after the declaration of the article and submit it to the offer of application to the mediator from the text. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Tutor Köse Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0264par0478	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0263par0479	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0265par0480	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0263par0481	Mr. Original, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0266par0483	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, according to our Constitution, you know, the basic organs of the state are legislation, execution, judgment. Here, Parliament of Legislature, we will make the law; the administration, the government, and its administration will enforce it; and when conflict arises, the judiciary will resolve this conflict. That's the basic system. Now you're installing something new between the intermediary law you brought in and the lawyer and the judge. There used to be case followers in Anatolia, you bring something like this. So if this has turned out to be an institution of expert opinion -- a institution that is now degenerated and not a major contribution to the judiciary -- unfortunately, if it has turned into an institution that leads to a deviation of justice, which leads to the conclusion of cases outside of the law, then the intermediary with this system will become one over time. I already warn you of this danger because in the system brought in here, the judge can encourage the parties to seek a mediator. If you look at the last sentence of Article 13 (1) of Article 13: the court can encourage the parties to go to the mediator. Dear friends, I'm really worried about this as a congressman from that podium. So, sir, let's take this to the negotiator and sort it out. When the judge says, "Who should we go to?" Is that all right, Judge? If the judge says it's true, he's going to go down that path, and that's going to cause some serious trouble, because the intermediaries registered in this system will go around the courthouses and give judges, trading judges, legal judges their cards -- I'm telling you what -- and when you say the government encourages you -- when you say the judge gives his friends the authority to direct the work to certain media. And when he does, the judge will not have abused his commission, nor will he commit a crime. When the justice inspector goes and investigates the matter, sir, I am in charge of the law. The judge encourages it, so I encouraged it. I think it's going to cause some serious trouble. In the 13th article, which I have promised again, sir, when will the time begin, and when will the 30 days start? It is unclear. That's why we're offering you a change. Dear friends, the negotiator, who will keep the report in his name? So right now the courts are making decisions for the Turkish nation. The negotiator will sign the sides, according to what? There's something else going on over there. You've brought the negotiator with you an obligation to keep secrets he learned during the mediation operation, and when he explained that, you've brought in a criminal obligation, but for how long, how many years, it's unclear how many years he's going to keep it. It's another raw law. Dear friends, another matter that concerns me is not being convicted of a deliberate crime in the matter of mediation. Let me tell you something that may or may not be convicted of a deliberate crime, but the decision to postpone the verdict may be a mediator: the person who was thrown out of the court, the prosecutor, the lawyer, not because of the crime, the person who was thrown out of discipline may be a finder, not because of the crime, but because of the discipline of the man who required to be thrown out, who was involved in a job that was not in line with the integrity of the profession or abused, but who was not convicted, who wasn't convicted, who was thrown out of the law. You give these people that authority, another dangerous point. Please, we want to contribute to you with good intentions, so we're giving you our amendment proposals. I beg you, read it, understand what we mean, vote accordingly. So, in this case, we are against this bill. Another point: Mr. Secretary, in a brochure prepared by the Ministry of Justice, you say that intermediary is applied in conflicts of law and family law cases. But when you say that family law will not be implemented in cases. So you're writing this down here, so tomorrow it will be relevant to family law cases as well as to me. Again, the parties can make a deal with the mediator -- which way -- to solve the problem. I'm saying he's gonna be a pain in the ass. I hope these criticisms will be taken into consideration. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0267par0496	Thank you, Mr. Original. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 14th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibles we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. If there is no other method in the joke, we respectfully submit and propose that the statement be removed from the text. Ali İhsan Kokturk Mahmut Tanal Sakine Öz Haydar Akar Aylin Nazlıaka Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0268par0509	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0267par0510	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0269par0511	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0267par0512	Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0270par0514	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on the 14th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act. I salute you all. See, this clause that I'm promising is actually the real reason why such a bill is being drafted. ▪ Who are those who meet at this time? Are there new places opening up for the AKP's supporters? We're solving the case before we can tell them. See what it's called in the article: "If there is no other procedure, the mediators or mediators are chosen by sides." What is another procedure? That's what we're learning from motive. The negotiators will be able to choose third parties or institutions, so even third parties and institutions are being activated to choose who the negotiator is, not only winking at AKP supporters in the mediation. Congressmans, bring before you women who live in poor villages, towns, and, of course, in cities under male rule. If a sentence were to come out of her mouth: let's sue to solve the problem. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Let's go to Mehmet Aghas, Ahmet Aghas.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Never mind the lawyer.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Why do we give money, the finder solves it.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Who is this negotiator? &lt;/i&gt;/i&gt;/i&gt; There's this network to choose from, there's this gentleman, there's this imam, there's this institution. Is that how you want things to work?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0271par0517	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0270par0518	It's pushing people into the lap of mobsters in cities, feudal attitudes in the country. Maybe people who don't even have the right to mediate, but who have influence over the congregation, will open media offices. They'll only find their way by finding an intermediary. What's happening is going to happen to the poor again. For some reason, the poor always pay the bills of AKP's recent laws. For example, 2/B, you tell the forest villagers who are the poorest in Turkey, that if you don't love the money, we'll seize the land. The so-called urban transformation, you tell the poor residents to tear down your home, or we will destroy it. The Union's Law has no right to strike people who are living in hardship, let them settle for 3% and 4. You don't care if it's a 20% raise from needle to thread. It's almost impossible for poor workers to strike. This list goes on and on. And now to mediate... many of our motions for poor, oppressed people have been rejected in the commission. Look, we say that this law should not be applied in matters related to the Law and the Law of Work. Why do we call it that? The poor and oppressed women, so that the workers would not be oppressed. The AKP denies it. We say that the statement made in the intermediary talks should not be accepted, which means that there is a mandatory possibility of being said. The result is rejected by the AKP. It's not over, let's give him a punishment if he abuses his job as intermediary. We say, "Objection." That doesn't mean we can stop being a problem and solve that problem. It's important to find right and wrong. When they speak, I say to those who always speak of the subject's rights: If this law of yours is justified, won't it be you who vote for it? The most remarkable reasons for this bill are these: there is one in Europe. When it comes to your work, you will not give up what you say about the values of Europe; but when it comes to your work, you will set an example for them. What, though, is the rate of forced marriage for girls in Europe when they were younger? What is the rate of depriving daughters of their parents in Europe? How many women in Europe have been victims of honor killings a day? Let's talk about Europe after we give them the answers. See, on March 8th, even with its shortcomings, we issued the Law of Violence on Women. At that time, we said: "Let not violent women who are resorting to the police be sent to their homes. " The AKP also supported, even if embarrassed, because the police are there, sometimes with more beatings, sometimes with murder. So, what's the difference now? Now, with this law, how many women's rights will be handed over to an unknown negotiator who doesn't even know his name, how accurate a decision he'll make? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, we'd like to see the judiciary's workload reduced, the trials accelerated. Yes, we say that the late justice is not justice, but you should know that justice is a clear injustice, a justice that never comes and eats people's rights. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0272par0530	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 14th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft of the law of mediation incompatibility bill we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. The phrase "as soon as possible" in his joke to include "in 15 days." 5. To replace the joke with "a month" after the declaration of "judgmental court." Your bill is 15. Article 6. We respectfully submit and propose that the declaration of "lawyers" be added to the joke after the "necessaries themselves" or "interviews themselves" and the removal of the terms of the MPs. Ali İhsan İkturk Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Aylin Nazlıaka Haydar Akar Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündün I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0273par0545	Mr. President, we're withdrawing the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0272par0546	The motion has been drawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft of the law of mediation incompatibility bill we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. The phrase "as soon as possible" in the joke "in 15 days to be added" 5. To change the joke to "a month" after the declaration of judgment. Your bill is 15. Article 6. "We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the terms of the lawyers to their talks after or after the declaration of their agreement and the removal of the terms of their guardians. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0274par0554	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0272par0555	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0275par0556	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0276par0557	Mr. Turgut Dibek...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0272par0558	Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0277par0560	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, what we're talking about is the law, perhaps a technical law. I'm watching carefully from where I'm sitting. Maybe our friends aren't too interested. We're trying to talk about the motions as the Republican People's Party Group, and we want that law to be understood. In the commission, we know the first time this law came along with our friends -- I was on the subcommittee with Dilek Hanım. We've brought it to a certain point in the subcommittee, and then we've made changes to the main commission, which is the subcommittee text, and it's come to a certain point, but, dear friends, there are serious doubts about this law, there are questions, there are questions, there are questions in society, there are lawyers, there are bars. So our friends from the bar came to the commission, the heads of the bar, each with some questions in their heads, and so do we. Now my time won't last, so I'll be speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on chapter two in a moment. Why are we confused, why do we have doubts? I'll try to explain them there in ten minutes. It's about matter, because it's not going to last long, so I'd like to talk a little bit about our motion here. While we're talking about chapter two, I'd like to go over what I just mentioned. Dear friends, now, how does the mediation process begin in Article 15? Here are provisions concerning the process of mediation and its duration. Citizens -- they've been told, maybe they've noticed some of our listening friends -- when they can go to the finder, where they can go, how they can talk, how they can talk, how they can solve -- the 15th article sort of regulates it. They can go in two stages. First, it's mentioned that they can agree on a mediator with their will not to appeal to the court, so before there's a trial, without any lawsuit, let's go to the mediator, where we can resolve this conflict in the way that he's going to show us, in the way that he's going to judge the dispute between us, in his arbitration, in the way that he's going to enforce the law. That's the first way. The second way, no, the parties have tried to solve the problem, they've filed a lawsuit, they're in front of the court, in front of the judge, to settle the case, but at that point, they're in front of the court, and they or the court has directed them to stop the trial, so let's stop the trial now, go to the mediator, and maybe we can solve the problem there. They can say, "It's in the trial stage." The 15th article regulates that part. Now, if the parties decided to go to the mediator before the trial, there's a bit of uncertainty in the text of the item -- we've submitted it in the subcommittee, we've submitted it in the main commission, our friends, our ruling party friends. The mediator will call a meeting of the parties as soon as possible. ▪ This must be removed as soon as possible. Let's call it a name. We called it a term, so let's call it a period. So now the sides have agreed with a mediator, but for the shortest time, 15 days, 10 days, a month? There's no such thing in matter, there's no such thing in judgment. At least in order to name it, we decided to bring an arrangement in the form of a meeting, a meeting, a talk, in 15 days. Oh, if the parties had appealed to the court, if they wanted to settle the matter by trial, if they had decided to go to the mediator at that stage, when the court had referred them to the mediator, or when the parties had decided to do so, there was a period of time, and we had seen that long, and we had noted that in the Commission. In three months, the court can postpone the trial by predicting a three-month period. We said that this was a lot, that you could extend the case, that maybe the parties here lack good intentions, that you shouldn't be able to do that, so we thought we'd take it down to a month. In our motion, we are now repeating this motion. We gave it to them on the commission, but our other friends wouldn't take it. It's in the previous materials. The parties can meet in the presence of the mediator through their own or their MPs. The verdict says. Now, MPs, in fact, we lawyers know the MPs. So when you call them lawyers, it can be called that, and it can be interpreted a little bit wider, but in order to make that more clear, we've suggested that that part of the MPs can also participate in the talks through their lawyers. We have these corrections in our motion. Look, a lot of the motions -- actually some of them were accepted -- all of them, with really good work on the law -- our motions as the Republican People's Party Group to correct them, you've rejected a lot of them. I hope you'll agree to this motion with these points I've made. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0278par0571	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 16 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're talking about. Article 2. This time is limited to six months at most. We respectfully offer and supply the addition of the declaration. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Haydar Akar Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0279par0582	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0278par0583	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0280par0584	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0281par0585	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0278par0586	I'm reading the reason: This is the 16th draft of the proposed bill. Article 2. Added to the joke, it was intended to prevent the abuse of mediating activity and the continuation of the process. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the second part of Article 17 of the Law of Mediation Act incompatibility Number 233, which is currently in session. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mehmet Doğan Kubat A. Çazatai Sword "If the document is not signed by parties or MPs, the reason is only signed by the mediator, which is specified. Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President The 17th draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 1. We propose and provide that the following sentence (e) be added to the joke. e) the resignation of the negotiator or the dissolution of the parties, Faruk Bal Enver Erdem Sinan Okan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. Following the declaration of "responsibility " of his joke (d), " the cease-and-desist act of mediation will be terminated and the intermediary will be reported by the mediator to the authorities of crime" 2. To the end of his joke, "This will be included in the statement that, despite a written statement, "If the parties or their representatives come to sign the report in 15 days, or if they are prevented from signing it, it will be stated in the report," 4. To remove the last sentence of his joke Five, as noted below. We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the joke. At the end of the mediation operation, the report is written on why the parties disagree and why the mediator's observations are not agreed upon. Those who have been submitted to the mediator will be placed in a report. When submitted to court by the parties, these proceedings and documents are sent to court by the mediator at the request of the court." Ali İhsan İkturk Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Aylin Nazlıaka Haydar Akar Mahmut Tanal Ali Özgündün Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0282par0619	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0278par0620	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0283par0621	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0284par0622	Mr. Bridgel will speak.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0278par0623	Mr. Bridgel, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0285par0625	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the 17th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act. I salute the General Assembly on this occasion. The bill, presented by the Ministry of Justice in the previous years as the draft Law on Mediations and Criticism Bill for the Parliamentary Presidency, remained strong, and is now re-opened by some changes made in 2011. This bill, brought to the public agenda on the basis of reducing the burden of the judiciary, contains a number of concerns and inconveniences, as stated in the reports of the main and secondary commissions, and expressed by our lawyers from all levels. Dear lawmakers, the 17th article of the bill, which we are currently discussing, is a clause that regulates the end of intermediary activities. This motion was intended to be addressed by detecting shortcomings in the application that were not included in this text. He just read another motion from the Presidential Court. We've heard that some changes have been tried to be met with this motion, but we can't say that the problem has been completely resolved. Dear lawmakers, when the first joke of Article 17 (d) meets a discrepancy of the mediator's issue as a crime, it has been arranged that the mediation will end, but it is not fully explained in the article text what the mediator will do about it. In this case, we have ordered the negotiator to report the crime to the authorities when both the mediator and the mediator face a crime-related situation. As such, we aim to make the mediators more serious and responsible for the law. We've just heard the amendment motion on Article 2 but the amendment motion is not exactly in the position to address the difficulty created by Article 2. Because the problem with Article 2 is that there is a problem with the fact that the call process is not specified and that it is not connected to the period. He's talking about calling the intermediaries' parties or deputies to sign off if they have one, but it's not in the form of the call. If legal evidence is not presented, they can cause serious problems. In our motion, we predict that this will be carried out by notification and the deadline. We say, let this be connected to the fifteen-day period and stated by notification. So, despite the written notice of the parties or their representatives, if they don't sign the report within 15 days, we submit our motion that the report be signed. So we think that both the call method and the duration of the call should be resolved so that the proof and the actions of malicious individuals may be prevented, especially from being left in the process of intervening activities. With this bill, the Justice Ministry has certain opportunities to deepen its interventionist position, especially at the point of resolving conflicts. The ministry's stance on the judiciary is being severely criticised by many, and the community expects the government to take initiatives in this matter, but while the community is in that expectation, the government is trying to impose, perhaps even more judicial activities on its own, on the contrary to the expectations of the conflict. In the final sentence of Article 17 which we are talking about, the fourth article states that an example of the report held at the end of the mediation activity will be sent to the General Manager. Negotiation is an activity that must be carried out independently, even though the law is tried to reverse. The office, which performs independent and neutral activity, will also be reduced to an officer of the General Directorate or the Ministry, an incident that should not be included in the text of the law. Here is the final sentence of the fourth joke, which should be removed from the text of the law, because it will cloud the independence and neutrality of the mediation activity. I ask the General Assembly to accept our motion and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0286par0635	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 1. We propose and provide that the following sentence (e) be added to the joke. e) the resignation of the negotiator or the dissolution of the parties, Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0287par0643	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0286par0644	The government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0288par0645	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0289par0646	Motive... Matter organises the end of mediation. 1-It's the fact that the negotiator himself resigned at the beginning of the main reasons that ended mediation. The fact that this situation is not being arranged is forcing a mediator to do a job he doesn't want to do. 2-The parties may view the person who is able to mediate themselves at the beginning as inadequate or insecure to conclude conflict with the agreement later in the process. In such a case, they must be able to release the mediator to allow the parties to continue the reconciliation process through another mediator's ability. The motion was given for the purpose of rescinding the resignation and release of the negotiator to compensate for the lack of the bill.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0290par0653	I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the second part of Article 17 of the Law of Mediation Act incompatibility Number 233, which is currently in session. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends "If the document is not signed by parties or MPs, the reason is only signed by the mediator, which is specified." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0291par0660	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0290par0661	The government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0292par0662	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0293par0663	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0290par0664	I'm reading the reason: This motion was made to address the problems that could be done in the application and to make the joke more understandable. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 17th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article has been accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 18 of Article 18 of the Law on Literacy of Law 233, which is currently in session, in the following way. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Smurf Unal Nureddin Nebati Hüseyin Bürge " III) It is a matter of uncontroversial judgment and can be done through the case. However, a review of disputes regarding family law, which can be negotiated, is conducted in a court of law. The scope of this study is limited to whether the content of the agreement is suitable for mediation and algebra. In the event that the appeal to the court will be filed for the adoption of the agreement document, the victim will be charged with a list of charges taken against the decisions made on it. If the parties wish to use the agreement document in another official transaction without granting it to them, the stamp tax is also taken as the victim. Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Mr. President This is the 18th draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 2 of the following text We provide and propose that it be added as a joke, that the joke numbers be identified. The court examines whether this agreement is in accordance with the public order while implementing the rules of the International Special Law and Legal Law in cases of alienity among the parties. Faruk Bal Enver Erdem Sinan Okan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 18th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act. Article 1 of the article. Adding "this document " to its joke, " the introduction of "the declaration of mediator, parties, or representatives, " to be" the sides and mediator, " 2. Adding to the joke the phrase "parties" or "lawyers" 3. It's the third one to start with the "contact document" of his joke. "In the event there is a motion to submit the sentence to the court to be passed upon the agreement document by removing its sentence from the text, "the victim will be charged with payment if there is a decision made on the application by the parties." We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the sentence. Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Erdal Aksunger Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0294par0693	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0290par0694	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0295par0695	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0290par0696	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0296par0698	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, when this first came to our 18th Amendment commission, I was really a little horrified by what happened in Article 18th. First of all, it was being examined by the court, only by the court, and there was no such thing as a hearing or arrangement here. In addition, the verdict, which had been passed, was in the form of a legal document, and there were no conditions for a mistrial or a mistrial against it. So, for these reasons, after talking a lot about this in the Commission and reviewing some of the doctrine's views on this issue, our motions have been accepted, and there have been positive changes in this clause. What kind of positive changes have happened? It was given by the executive court, so normally, even if there was an intermediary study outside the court, even if the arbitration agreement was written, an arrangement was made to be carried out by the official and authorized court. After that, it was said that the documents that were issued, which could be carried out, could be referred to as law enforcement courts. It was very important. So, if you're now, if you're giving an actable shahi to an agreement filed by the mediator, and this can be carried out, as well as the deed given, the document, the final document, the final sentence, there, there, there, many things that were in violation of the will of the parties, unfortunately, were insurmountable. We've given examples of our law, and even in the court of law agreements, this agreement can be called off because of the willlessness of the will. In the same way, we said, "Why should there be a reason in the arbitration that there is no appeal or appeal of the document, which can be used as a result of the arbitration?," we said, and we corrected them. However, one of the things that we have corrected as the Commission, we have made a amendment to the hearing and the listening of the parties when it comes to a motion to appeal to the court, the court, the authorities and the competent court for the execution of it. Now, they say that with a new motion given by the AKP Group, a hearing can only be held on matters related to family law, the judge's discretion on other matters, whether he should stand trial or not. Dear friends, once, then we discussed this in the Commission, we said that the judge needs to see the sides of his driver's license. Two, are these people under pressure? They need to know if they're under pressure. Is there any abuse of rights? The judge needs to see him. So if the workers signed a report under pressure from the employer, they would come back and repeat these will statements in front of the judge, just as they did today in the dealless divorces. Unfortunately, however, the issue that we all agreed on together and corrected with the motions was later narrowed down. That narrows it down a little bit, fellas. As a result, many lawsuits will be filed in either these courts or the settlement agreements from these mediators. I didn't say that, but the negotiator wrote them wrong. I'm under pressure. They're going to say, or there's going to be a lot of problems with whether the willmaker is doing it free will. Therefore, I demand that you withdraw this motion from you, because there was a common will of the Commission, and I think that will should be respected. Friends, on the other hand, in the 1st article, we said, "Why should intermediary activities be in matters other than civil law and business law?" In this regard, especially women can be deceived, oppressed, and their children may lose custody; they can face many problems. Likewise, under the pressure of the employer, people would come to this report... and if they were directed to a wanted mediator or under pressure or under moral pressure, the consequences would be very severe, the trust in this system in society would be reduced, and if the courts didn't examine it enough, the crisis of trust would be serious. Well, that's why we're going to this trial... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0297par0707	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 18th draft of the current bill 233 rows. Article 2 of the following text We provide and propose that it be added as a joke, that the joke numbers be identified. The court examines whether this agreement is in accordance with the public order while implementing the rules of the International Special Law and Legal Law in cases of alienity among the parties. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0298par0715	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0297par0716	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0299par0717	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0300par0718	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0297par0719	I'm reading the reason: Of course, it's the end of the legal conflict between them and the reconciliation of the parties that is essential. The ability of the parties' agreement to perform requires a court ruling. 1- Courts have to maintain public order while using jurisdiction on behalf of the Turkish Nation under any circumstances or circumstances. 2- The registration of agreements involving an alien element is directly related to the sovereignty of every state. In implementing this issue, they can benefit from this law in order to ensure the implementation of foreign court decisions in Turkey, which do not have the ability and the ability to use it, both for hesitation and for the purposes of some ill-intentioned parties to go behind the International Law and the Law on Civil Law. The adoption of this issue in the bill will cause hesitation in implementing it. This motion has been made to address this hesitation. This is very serious and very serious when agreements involving alienity have been known and the fact that the agreement is not being examined by the court in terms of public order. Both cases are the natural result of the government's right to rule. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Article 18 of the Article 18 of the Law of Negotiation shall be changed in the following manner. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends " III) It is a matter of uncontroversial judgment and can be done through the case. However, a review of disputes regarding family law, which can be negotiated, is conducted in a court of law. The scope of this study is limited to whether the content of the agreement is suitable for mediation and algebra. In the event that the appeal to the court will be filed for the adoption of the agreement document, the victim will be charged with a list of charges taken against the decisions made on it. If the parties wish to use the agreement document in another official transaction without granting it to them, the stamp tax will also be taken as the victim." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0301par0737	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0297par0738	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0302par0739	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0303par0740	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit05spe0297par0741	I'm reading the reason: In order for mediation to be implemented more effectively and to be attractive, you also need to be able to examine it through the file. Because mediation, dissension is being resolved by themselves through negotiations and negotiations on the basis of volunteering by the parties. The aim of mediation is to resolve conflicts in a simple and easy way with the parties' agreement before they come to court. A trial review of all discrepancies without any distinction may increase the workload of courts, especially in terms of trade discrepancies that may not be preferred by the mediation institution. However, it is imperative that a hearing be held based on the nature of discrepancies in family law, which is suitable for mediation. Therefore, this motion has been made to ensure that the examination of the harmonisation of family law, which is suitable for mediation, can also be carried out through the file, excluding discrepancies in family law. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 18th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 18th article has been accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0297par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 233. The commission and the government are in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the first and second jokes of Article 35 and the interim clause 1 and 2, including Article 19 to 38. On the second chapter, on behalf of the groups, the People's Party Group of the Republic will be speaking on behalf of Cırklareli MP Turgut Dibek. Here you go, Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0304par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I've just mentioned our motion regarding the 15th Amendment. When I made a commitment to the Republican People's Party Group about the second chapter, I made a little bit more clear to you why I wanted to evaluate this institution, the mediation institution differently, especially why we have question marks, why there are doubts in public, in legal circles, in barrooms, why there are questions asked, why I want to discuss them with you. There are 9th articles of our Constitution, which we have actually stated in the Commission. We have a ruling that the jurisdiction will be used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation, and we still have the 6th article on sovereignty. Is this institution a new judicial activity? Will this institution bring in multi-law? Will the use of the jurisdiction of our Constitution in Article 9 of the Article 9 of the Constitution be bypassed by this institution in a sense by independent courts? These are the kind of questions you ask. Such matters are spoken among us in the legal community. Now, maybe our ruling party MPs are being suspicious, but it's not really that kind of institution at all. Mr. Secretary just answered questions, we know, so when we read the articles, we went to Europe, too. We, our friends and I, during a visit to England, studied the British foot of the mediation institution there, but our other friends also studied how this institution is being implemented in America, Italy, Germany, Austria, and other countries. We saw the incident in England. Of course, that's England, Germany, Italy, and this is Turkey, dear friends. Turkey is a different country. Each country has its own conditions, its own social problems. Now, we also have a Prime Minister, dear friends. Mr. Prime Minister comes out from time to time, as with everything else, and there's a conversation he's made about it in the past, and I'm going to share it with you, and it's enough to confuse us. On September 30, 2010, after the September 12, referendum, he attended the opening ceremonies of the new school year at the University of Marmara, where he gave a speech, making very interesting sentences in that speech. Now I'm going to read those sentences from here. Of course, you can interpret these sentences, and we'll interpret them. What did the Prime Minister mean by many of our citizens? Why did he make these sentences? They were confused. Look what the Prime Minister said at that college opening ceremony. He said: "We are the heirs of different groups of beliefs to make their own judgment if necessary." Hopefully, we will take on such a pioneer role in the future. Now, I don't interpret, you interpret yourself, what does the Prime Minister mean? We are the heirs of different groups of beliefs to make their own judgment if necessary. What could he mean by his word? I mean, do you think there's a lot of law in this? So, Mr. Prime Minister, in our Constitution, did the people's identities, their beliefs, their people's opinions, their genders, put them all aside and say that people are equally subject to the laws of the law, each of which is not evaluated? Or, no, if they wanted to, would people in this country, in their own way, have the right to judge by the rules of religious values that they believe in, other than universal law? Now, when we look at it, it's something like that. Now, why would he make that statement out of the blue, Mr. Prime Minister? Sure, there's two choices. So our language was a slip. Or you could say, "No, actually, the Prime Minister has a number of beliefs behind his mind, he has values." So without realizing it, I couldn't help but wonder if he reflected the background of the mind with this conversation, and so did a lot of people. That's what we talked about on the commission. Now, my friends, if the Prime Minister of this country says this word, and we discuss the mediation institution here, well, we take them together, and we say, "What will this institution bring to Turkey?" Now, Mr. Prime Minister, then he didn't correct that word in one place, and I'll tell you that, no, that's not what I meant, that's what I meant. You know, sometimes he makes these kind of statements, and then he says, "No, that's not what I meant, that's what the press, that's what the media changed, or that's not what the media did. Look, dear friends, if you make this statement, in this country, people, as I've just stated, we want to judge our own beliefs, without any consideration of their identities, beliefs and genders, by law, not by the rights of the law that we call secular law, but by the universal laws of our Constitution, and we want to find the courage to solve our problems according to our religious law. That's a lot of law. Now, will this institution bring this? No, this institution won't bring it. It says our dear friends, the ruling group. In fact, when we go to Europe or other countries, yes, this institution has nothing to do with it. Although, before we went abroad, our minds were confused about it, for those reasons. Here's the ruling group. Let's go to Europe. Look, this institution has been being implemented abroad, in America, for many years. We all went together. We've gone, we've come, we haven't changed our minds, but this matter has changed in the head of the ruling group, in the minds of our friends. We've seen this: it's not like that at all. I saw the leg of England. The work began in the 1990s in England, and the law was adopted in 2000. There's a legal arrangement in 99, 2000, and we're taking it out now in 2012. 3%, 2%... so we've been there for four days, we've made a lot of visits, and they say, "What if the citizen doesn't know?" There's an institution in England called intermediary, there's an alternative solution, but the citizens don't know it, no one knows it, people don't apply to this institution. I'm talking about England. That's the same in America, I think, about 3 percent of the population, but here it's called honey and honey, and here it's called a friendly solution proposal, an alternative solution proposal. This is going to solve the problems of the judiciary, and that's what's going to keep them from piling up in court. There's no such thing. So that's part of it. But look, that first part that I mentioned is important to valuable friends. I mean, you guys, first... maybe if I get a chance, I'll ask the Prime Minister, which means we can ask him with a question proposal, but here, the mediation agency is an institution that corresponds to the Prime Minister's opinion. When you start practicing tomorrow, dear friends, these are our reservations. There's a Minister of Health in this country. So when we look at his speeches, he says things that no country's health minister in the world has said. The last time it came to the issue of abortion, of course, that was discussed in public, and of course, the reaction was drawn, but Mr. Health Minister said: "Here she may have been raped." I mean, that woman's family, sir tradition, there are certain rules that can do whatever it takes to do with that woman. Now, the bottom line is, we can have that child, we can take care of that child. What about the woman? That's none of our business! She executes her brother, hangs herself, commits suicide, that's her problem! We'll take care of the kid! Now, friends, we're dealing with the Health Minister of the government of a country like this, or rather, we're dealing with that kind of understanding. Now, in a painting like this... it's just an example, specific, maybe a striking example. So we have MPs here from East Anatolia, Southeast Anatolia, we go to those areas from time to time, we know what women go through with both family and peer pressure. Our young girls are there, in that area, probably not so easily used to wear jeans. We see what challenges they face. This institution will make them very difficult.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0305par0023	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0304par0025	As we have different beliefs, we want to apply our own religious law by our own rules, according to our beliefs. He thinks that in the inheritance, we want to judge other matters according to religious rules... so there's a secret process in law enforcement, even though it brings a set of restrictions to the public order negotiator, everything is confidential, so there's a secret process. The sides come in, they set it free, how they talk to each other, what way they talk to each other, no one knows. We have a concern that multi-laws can be brought to life with this institution in Turkey. In other motions, we'll express our thoughts. I'd like to bring this to the attention of the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0029	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. In the name of his personal name, Konya MP Harun Rifleci? No. In the name of the person, Bolu MP Fehmi Cubic? No. No questions, no answers. Now, the talks on the entire second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're talking about. Article 1 of the article. In the beginning of its joke, it was to be replaced as the "result of the circle" (also referred to as the negotiating board); Once again, we propose and propose that the term "relationship information" after its last statement, be replaced by the term "information presidency." Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine Flood Köse Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0307par0046	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0047	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0308par0048	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0049	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0309par0050	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0051	I'm reading the reason: The mediators' record was proposed not by the Ministry's office head, but by a more autonomous organisation, the negotiating board, and thus to ensure that the mediators be restored to a more independent structure. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 19th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 20, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 20th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're discussing. Article I. The declaration of "interest" in his joke has been lifted and added to the "Interrogation Board" 2. "To succeed in the written and applied examination of the joke " in Dbend 2. We propose and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. B) Being a lawyer with at least 10 years of seniority Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine From Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0310par0069	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0070	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0311par0071	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0072	Motive?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0312par0073	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0074	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The holding of a record of mediation was intended to be given to a more independent and autonomous body, the Arbitration Board, where mediators would be chosen with more objective and objective criteria and have assurances. 2. The joke (b) is the law of the law on being a lawyer with at least 10 years of seniority in his profession to ensure that the public trust in the mediation that causes so many objections and that any legal action can only be carried out by lawyers. It has been proposed to provide a parallel to 35. A lawyer with ten years of seniority in the profession should be subject to mediation training, and it is not appropriate to be tested. Moreover, it is recommended that the examination be lifted since political preferences are based on the implementation of the Ministry of Justice. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. The commission has a demand for correction.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0313par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. In the second joke of Article 20, we demand that the declaration of the article be corrected by the registration of the mediators.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0082	With this request for correction, I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article has been accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 21st time we've discussed the bill of the law of mediation incompatibility. Article 1 of the article. In the beginning of his joke, the title of the House Chairman should be changed to "the mediation board." 2. We respectfully offer and offer that his joke be changed in the following way. (2) The negotiating board sets the professional rules that mediators must abide by. The council warns in writing the mediator, who has determined that this law does not meet the obligations and the rules of the profession, that if this warning is ignored, the majority will decide, if necessary, that his name be removed from the record after receiving the mediator's plea. The way of judgment against these decisions is clear. The appeal of a trial does not result in the peacemaker's continued activity. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine From Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0314par0095	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0096	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0315par0097	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0306par0098	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0316par0099	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we can't do a lot of talking here, in fact, in order for it to reach its place, unfortunately. We have very few friends over there. No matter how positive suggestions we bring in, the majority of the talks here are being written down in history due to the fact that these statements are in writing. So, knowing that it will not be accepted again in the same way, I would like to have a conversation about this substance here. Now, especially when we were developing an attitude against the intermediary bill, and the arbitration was judged by independent courts. One of the main issues was secrecy, one of which we were reacting because of the creation of a trade in the Ministry of Justice. So the institution that these mediators are connected to should actually be the intermediary board, not the Department of Justice. I've mentioned it briefly in my previous conversations. Belgium, for example, has a more autonomous organisation, a federal commission that does not directly depend on the ministry and the administration, but on certain issues in which the mediators can actually make suggestions on both the controls and how to operate, or conduct disciplinary procedures. In the same way, in our country, we thought at least such a board should be formed, an autonomous board should be formed. Because his commitment to the Ministry of Justice, to the Justice Department, to the Ministry of Justice to take the test, to the Ministry of Justice to be responsible for the education issues, to the Ministry of Justice and to determine the trainers, and then to have these mediators to send their transcripts to the Ministry of Justice again, in many cases directly, will be a group of professions under the orders and instructions of the Ministry of Justice. So we thought that the Council of Negotiators, which was actually more independent and more autonomous, should have the authority to do so, and that this is the board that should be in charge of it. So we've had different suggestions about this board, and we've had suggestions about the formation of the board. For example, we had a motion not to be just a majority of Justice Department bureaucrats, such as independent organizations, for example, more people than the Bar Association, more noters, or more people than other occupational institutions, but directly, we had a motion not to be made up of bureaucrats and institutions under the administration of the Ministry of Justice, but unfortunately they were not accepted. And that's the result -- so what's happening here -- is that we've formed a business group directly associated with the Ministry of Justice. Although the AKP has designed the judiciary, which means that even though it's designed, judges are still not trusted because they have a rule of law, they have a professional ethics, so no matter how dependent they are, all our motions have been rejected because all the judges and prosecutors' High Council are partly acting in accordance with these rules, so we will direct them directly into the process of controlling them. However, as in this motion, we are recommending that the Council of Negotiators be in a more independent structure, establish the rules of professions, be carried out by the Board of Mediators, and that disciplinary procedures should be carried out entirely by the Council of Negotiators and be able to appeal to judgment over the decisions made by the Council of Negotiators. Even though we know that this motion will not be accepted by you, if we accept it, we will have done a study in that framework, just as we do in the European countries we set an example. Now, there's a lot of examples being given, but let me give you another example that doesn't work for the AKP group or the friends who do these studies. Since 1995, this system has been implemented in France, and the mediation system has been implemented. There is a direct intervention of the judge, where the judge thinks that this issue of cases that have come to him may be in line with mediation, and he sends it to mediation, and then he gets reports from the mediator from time to time. What are you doing, what are you doing? And then if the negotiator does something wrong, or if there's no good direction, he can remove the negotiator from this mission, and he can retake his own case, that case. They're bringing in all kinds of reports again, asking the judge, asking the negotiator, then asking the parties, and then asking these parties, and then saying that it's against the orderful law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0317par0105	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 21st article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 22 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 22nd Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibles we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. We respectfully submit and propose the addition of the term "and the legal internship" to the joke after the declaration of law school. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine From Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0318par0116	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0317par0117	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0319par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0317par0119	Motive. 20. In the matter, it has been proposed that lawyers with ten years of seniority should be mediators, to ensure integrity with the same clause, and to ensure that the rules of the practice of law are learned and adopted before mediation training. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 22nd article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 23 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd edition of the bill of the law of mediation incompatibility we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. We respectfully submit and propose the addition of the phrase "from the negotiating board" to the joke, which was taken out of the word "from the Ministry" after the term "these organizations." Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine From Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0320par0134	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0317par0135	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0321par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0322par0137	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0317par0138	I'm reading the reason: It has been proposed by the mediation board, which can decide on more autonomous and objective criteria, not by the Ministry.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0323par0141	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit06spe0317par0142	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0317par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends was not enough in the vote given on Article 233. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 24th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. Each time, we respectfully submit and offer the addition of the word "three" to the joke after the declaration. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine İhsan Özkes Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0324par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0317par0018	The government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0325par0019	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0317par0020	Mr. Trust, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0326par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 24th Article of the Law Code of Arbitration No. 233, prepared by the Ministry of Justice on 26/5/2008 and sent to our presidency by the Council of Ministers, I give you my regards. This bill aims to end conflict with the European Union as part of its efforts to harmonise the parties' will rather than the path of trial. But we do know that we are actually moving away from the European Union with the government's own law, or by deflection. In particular, the discrepancy of the solution of disputes raises questions as to how the decisions are made, which are not clear. There will be no independent assessment. This clause is also contrary to the existing principle of allenity in civil procedure law and the Article 141 of our Constitution. Again, with the bill, a commercial business is wanted to be created. So the graduates of law school will take the exam by taking courses organised by the mediation training agency. So there's going to be another class. These classrooms will also be organised by the Office of Arbitration, which will be established within the Ministry of Justice. Could this organization be a step forward in the privatisation of justice? For example, there is another way of privatisation in health. After one week, our physicians, most of whom are practitioners, passed through ten days of training, sent to areas called family physicians, who were supposed to be free of charge, and were given free health care at health clinics, and went to privatisation by turning the health system upside down when it became a family physician. Now, the family physicians now pay the price for the examination. We will live in the future where the justice system, as well as the health system, is tried to be turned upside down. The candidates will pay for the course, pay for the exam. Besides, is it possible that in a government structure that can't prevent questions from being stolen on university exams, even on civil examinations, these tests will be fair during a period of lawmakers, journalists, academics, soldiers, students and citizens that last years of imprisonment and are not brought to trial? Do we know that 90 medical students were taken into custody today alone? Why is it not given in law school courses that are recommended by the private organization? Isn't that an incentive to be a lecturer? Besides, what I'm most curious about is the content of the teaching of persuasion. How and where will the learning techniques of persuasion be applied? Will it be applied to women first, or will they be tried to persuade? Persuade isn't open, is it secret too? Again, there is also a lack of constant education in the bill. The 24th article also shows that the control of educational institutions depends on a long period of time, such as three years. It would be a problem for private institutions to be audited every three years in a business controlled by the Court every year. Special educational institutions will become lazy, not trying to renew themselves. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party, do not accept this clause, as it is appropriate to have control at least once every two years. As we have seen, the bill states that there is a law that is ineffective because of the incentive to be a lecturer, and the confidentiality decision, and the removal of trust in the justice system, and I give my regards to the high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0327par0033	Thank you, Mr. Trust. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 24th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 25 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 25th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. We respectfully present and propose to those who have completed the joke, after the declaration, to include the word "Pharaoh" into the lawyer's statement. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine From Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0328par0046	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0327par0047	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0329par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0327par0049	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0330par0050	Refik Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0327par0051	Mr. Eryilmaz, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0331par0053	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to the 1st amendment of the 25th Article of the Arbitration Bill. I hereby salute the House with respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to say that I am unable to accept the vote of about 1 million of our citizens and the fact that eight of our elected lawmakers are still being held prisoner in prison. Because we have sworn in honor and honor that we will protect the nation's sovereignty from this bench unconditionally, but I'm afraid we haven't been able to fulfill this oath for our fellow MPs so far. For this reason, it is my duty to remind the ruling lawmakers of their responsibilities once again. Dear lawmakers, the government has unfortunately acted on this bill with a strict and ignominious understanding, as has been in every bill he has ever submitted to parliament. The criticism of this law has not been taken into account. The government, depending on its numerical majority, has brought this bill to the Parliamentary General Assembly in an understanding that excludes any constructive criticism, I call it. Dear lawmakers, we see that this bill and the modern and modern legal system are being emptied, purged and imposed on society. This law is a law born dead, no chance of success. Because it is not possible for the establishment of intermediary to operate in a society where social solidarity culture is destroyed, where a religious and vindictive society is being created, where society is being separated. Negotiation in the bill is defined as a conflict solution. What's really important is that no matter what happens, it doesn't have to be resolved quickly, it has to be resolved according to law and justice. In our case, there are already regulations in the Law on Law on Law on Punishment, Law on Laws and Laws on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law that resolves disputes between persons through compromise. While the current regulations need to be developed, it certainly is not right to adopt a new and special law. When we look at the content of the bill, we see that the text contains major problems in the process leading to reconciliation, and that the Constitution is in violation of articles 2, 6, 9, 11 and 36. Because it has been made clear in the Constitution that sovereignty belongs to the unconditional nation; that it cannot be allowed to be used to anyone, the group, the class; that no one and no one can use authority that does not take the source of the body from the Constitution; that its jurisdiction will be used by independent courts for the Turkish nation. However, the text of the law shows that this sovereignty and authority in the field of justice have been transferred to certain individuals and communities. In addition, the draft law brings with it significant difficulties. First of all, because the following process is uncivilized, for example, the most important of the falsifications of wills has not been stated what to do in the case of imrah, pressure, threat, and intimidation. The time limit for the process appears to be significant, such as the lack of notice of family and inheritance law, the lack of time, injustice, and abuse of powers granted to the mediator, the lack of any judicial action, and the lack of public control for reconciliation are not foreseen. Unfortunately, this bill creates a second executive judgment when we already have an open-minded judgment, a judicial system. Both the negotiator's choice and training are a separate challenge in the process. It is understood that the law carries significant risks that could harm both the judiciary and the practice of law and lawyers.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0332par0061	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 25 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 26th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're talking about. After the declaration of the article's obligation to inform the negotiating board on its success, we respectfully submit and propose the addition of the declaration to the governing body. Ali İhsan İkturk Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali Özgündüz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine From Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0333par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0332par0075	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0334par0076	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0335par0077	Dear Kazim Kurt...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0332par0078	Mr. Wolf, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0336par0080	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 26 of Bill 233. I salute you all. First of all, this is when we have to make an assessment of the training of negotiators and negotiators: it's a clause on how educational institutions submit their reports to the Office Chairman. On the other hand, we have submitted this motion, considering that there is only one person appointed by the minister in the run for office. In our motion, we say that information should be given to the Mediator Board and that the terms of the House's Presidency should also be changed as a mediator. The reason for this, our dear friends, is that the institutions that will provide mediation training according to Article 23 are the law schools, the Bar Association and the Justice Academy. We think it's not right that these institutions are only dealing with one head of department at the Ministry, and that the law is conflicted within itself because it's been tasked with the board for all tasks related to Article 32 or educational training. Therefore, we would like to stress that the notifications regarding education would be more appropriate to be given to the board than to the Office's presidency. But as with all the motions, we think this will be ignored and rejected by your votes, and we know that we're just passing it on to the transcripts because you keep doing it wrong. As you know, the basis for this law is the norms of the European Union, the practices in Europe, and the requests in Europe. In his presentation, Mr. Secretary weighed them down. But there's a lot of other things in Europe that we can take, that we have to get, for once, there's a social democracy, let's take them. But we're trying to bring a system, not that, that might not be appropriate for the structure of our society. Before, a settlement was introduced in the Penal Code or in the criminal trial, and it did not succeed. How many of the cases have reached a compromise now, or how many successes have we achieved from the Compromise Foundation, without questioning it, and it will be understood in time that it's not the right choice to try to mediate law conflicts, but the main reason here, I think, is to try to create a new profession, try to create a new institution, and maybe try to put the law in order with scientific practices, with co-friendly, buddy, sergeant relations. This is not the right approach because citizens in Turkey expect the court to resolve such problems. In fact, without this law, both by Article 35/A of the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on this basis, this intermediationstration may be operational, but in fact, in fact, it is a failure to be a law on the basis to be forced by force. I don't think this institution is going to help Turkey, the Turkish law, and we think that you should support the motion that we've made in this direction, and at least the lack here, we think that the wrong here, the wrong here, will be useful to make it in line with the system within the law, and we ask you to support our offer. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0088	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 26th article is accepted. There's a motion on the 27th article, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 27th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're discussing. After the word "downside" of the clause, "we respectfully submit and propose that the declaration be added in the conditions. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine From Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0338par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0100	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0339par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0102	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0340par0103	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0104	I'm reading the reason: The material text has been recommended to be more precise. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 27th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 28 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 28th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're talking about. We respectfully offer and offer the release of the first joke from the text. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine From Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0341par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0118	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0342par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0343par0120	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0121	I'm reading the reason: It was proposed by the negotiating board to ensure that mediation activities and mediators have a more independent structure. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 28th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 29 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 29th amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're talking about. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0344par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0135	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0345par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0346par0137	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0138	I'm reading the reason: There is no need to form the office presidency, since mediating activities and mediators are recommended by the negotiating board to carry out any tasks for them in order to have a more independent structure. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 29 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 30, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 30th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're talking about. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0347par0151	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0152	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0348par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0337par0154	Mr. Acar, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0349par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the purpose of the bill is to speed up the trial, and the aim of accelerating this trial is not to bring justice on its own. First of all, justice must be cooked like bread, as Brecht said. If justice stays in the oven too long, it burns. If justice remains short in the oven, then it will not be cooked, it will remain raw, it must be cooked like a whole loaf of bread, whereas justice that will be served with this bill will be far from justice, and I regret to say that in the matter of justice, the Justice and Development Party will go down in history as a party that has lost its rights. My dear friends, as the system brought in is unfair, this system is rushed, quickly, in order to be accepted by the European Union to impose upon us. My dear friends, look, the Justice and Development Party's justice system is bankrupt. We are far from saying that there is a fair trial in Turkey today. My dear friends, there can be no justice order to explain the fact that people whose political ideas are completely contrary have been in the same organization for five years, and there are people who have been sentenced to 21 years and 22 years before the main case is overturned, and this system of punishment is punishment for their defence. The main case isn't over, but there are 21-year-old defendants who have been sentenced to 21 years for their defenses. My dear friends, these injustices are going down in history, and the Justice and Development Party's goal is certainly not to bring justice. If there were, that would be justice there. My dear friends, it's not just this; it's the defense under duress. Lawyers are being tried today, Turgut Kazan is being tried. Also, lawyers are banned from hearings because of their defenses. Injustice has passed its knee. My dear friends, not only that; see, the Justice and Development Party's justice is now only between the Prime Minister's two lips, and this system is a system that will fail, just like this justice system. My dear friends, you see, it's possible to implement a system where women get half as much inheritance as men, through this mediating system, and that's...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0350par0165	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0349par0166	...that has been abandoned in Turkey will be used as a means of revamping the law. My dear friends, the foundation of our Constitution is the system of separation of forces. The separation of forces system is severely damaged. The difference between legislation and execution has already been eliminated, which is under the command and command of the authority to run the law here. As if that wasn't enough, now under the name of office president, the same work is being done over and over again in the intermediary law, which is being brought in. This is clearly against the 138th Amendment of the Constitution, and I say with this bill, the AKP commits a decisive violation of the Constitution. A department headed by the Justice Department's General Directorate of Law will supervise all mediators, adjust their timelines and act as independent judiciary and use judicial authority. I demand a shortcut back from here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0351par0170	Thank you, Mr. Acar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 30 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 31st draft of the law of mediation incompatibility. Article 1 of the article. It's d) and f) of the joke. d) Turkey's Notary union two representatives f) Three mediators the negotiators will choose from among themselves b) and h) to be removed from text 3. It's a joke, four. It's a joke and a six. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. (3) The board holds its first meeting at the head of the oldest member and selects a president between its only majority and its own. (4) The Council meets at least four times a year in March, June, September and December. In addition, the board can always be called to a meeting at the request of the president or at least five members. (6) The mandate of board members is three years. Re-elected members whose mandate expires. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Kamer Young Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0352par0188	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0351par0189	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0353par0190	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0354par0191	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0351par0192	I'm reading the reason: The ministry's representatives were cut down so the mediation board could have a more independent structure, envisioning a more weighted membership in the Notarys union, as well as the aim of providing democratic functioning with members of the mediators' choice from amongst themselves. Since the board is busy with tasks, this proposal has been made to ensure that the board meets at least four times a year, determine the mandate of board members, and that the chairman of the board will be elected democratically. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit to your votes the 31st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 31st article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're talking about the 32nd draft of the law of mediation incompatibility bill. Article 1 of the article. B) In addition to the expression "and take the test" (e) to decide whether the mediator should be removed from the record, ) and h) and i) we respectfully offer and honor that their dams be removed from the text. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0355par0208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0351par0209	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0356par0210	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0351par0211	Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0357par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, Article 32, actually 31, 32, 33 is one. Now, there are duties in the law. The intermediaries will serve, our citizens will choose them, how they will do it, and they have to have a structure to carry out these arrangements. We talked about that at the commission, the subcommittee and the main commission. Of course, can an independent structure be built, except for the Department of Justice, where there's no political will in it, when we say Europe, America, we talk to our friends, everything's fine, but there's no structure there. So in our Turkey, the Ministry is following this structure again, and everything is in the hands of the Ministry. Sadly, the 31st, 32st, and 33st articles, dear friends, are giving all arrangements for mediation into the hands of a Ministry. When we talked to our teachers, we said, "Why don't we hand it over to the control, structure of an independent committee?" But they said, "We couldn't get out of it. There's no malice, there's no malice, there's no intention." They said, "We had to hand it over to the Ministry." But, dear friends, it's not really that, it's not that." Now, the board, the intermediary board, has appeared to be a bit of an independent structure, but in a similar way to the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the structure of the HSYK, they have eliminated friends there, they have looked, they have looked, they have done a lot of work, and they say, "How do we control a structure of 15 people?" So there's the chairman general of the board's legal affairs, there's the head of the agency, and there's the head of an agency that's based on it, and you know that with that law -- there's three of them who are appointed by the Minister of Justice. Can't we identify three people from amongst themselves, why the Minister is throwing, and the intermediary has a record, and there's a lot of negotiators who are going to have a record, and can't the intermediaries identify the three people inside this board, or don't they have that kind of ability? They're from within... you know, you know, judges, bench judges, come to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, form a more democratic structure, form a more involved structure. No, that's where the Ministry sets up the intermediaries, the minister determines it himself, that's what it is. However, we were able to do so in the commission: We were able to transfer one of them to the Bar Association, where there would be two representatives of the CEC. That's it, thanks to our friends, they've been able to move in with us, but other than that, let's just say, dear friends, this board has become a bureaucratic institution. Now, the Ministry will do most of the work. More or less, there are representatives of the Council, from the TOBBB, from the trade artists, from the Chamber of Rooms, from the Bar Association, from the Notary Corps, from there are seven dignitaries of eight. Eight of them come from departments that are all up in the Ministry. What we can say is, let's at least increase the task of the board. I mean, it's almost like the head of the agency took over the duties of almost all the law. The board will meet twice a year. We said, "Let's gather this four times a year. Let's gather together four times each month. Let's have a little bit more authority over the year, let's have more powers. So the Ministry will take the test, so this is the midterm test. Who's giving you the training permit? Here, the law schools will give, the Bar Association will give -- we added it to the Commission with the motion -- the Justice Academy will give it to you. And the board of esteemed friends cannot grant this training permit. I just looked there -- and we talked about it in the Commission -- and the Ministry will grant the permit, but it's authorized the board to cancel the education permit, so it's a weird, conflicting event, the cancellation board, but it's in the Ministry. So the board is sort of symbolicized here. The board will not be able to make the inspection, and the audit will not be made by the Ministry again, or by the regulatory board. What missions were assigned to the board? He'll give you an opinion on the inspection. Where? Here, to the General Directorate of Legal Affairs or to the Head of the Department. Sir, it will determine the amount of tuition, the dues, this kind of painting. Now, of course, how much goodwill is there here? In Europe, at work, our friends, we saw in England -- who's doing the inspection, who's giving the training, how much is the government, the ministry involved? It's completely independent, but we're completely under the Ministry's care... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a board and a structure in custody of political will. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0358par0225	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 32 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 33rd Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibles we're discussing. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be released in the draft text. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0359par0238	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0358par0239	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0360par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0358par0241	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0361par0243	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, yes, I've mentioned secrecy before. Now, this is an arrangement for a breach of confidentiality. When he came to the commission, he required a harsher sentence, a breach of confidentiality, but somehow in the Commission, we were able to reduce that sentence a little bit more, because the violation of confidentiality is perhaps one of the most, again, problem substances in this bill. Now, if the parties violate confidentiality, if the negotiator violates confidentiality, they'll be sentenced to six months in prison, dear friends, but if the negotiator neglects his duty, abuses his position, and otherwise, he does all kinds of misdirections, or does his own duties differently, then we don't punish the mediator in any way, and you don't see the concept that the mediator should be punished in any way. You didn't take into account our proposals on Article 9 and you didn't take into account our proposals for renegotiation of matter, but you're putting such a clause in here about a breach of confidentiality, it's not understandable. It's always been referred to the European Council directives when we put them in, but, friends, when we look at them, there's no regulation in Austria that violates privacy for the parties, just in terms of intermediaries, because it's a trade secret, there's a violation of intermediary confidentiality, and there's a ban on exposing them, but it's never been forbidden for the parties. I've told you before, and I'm telling you again, you now know the regulations in Article 5. With an invitation from the arrangements there to mediate, will we punish the person who submitted the statement, the arbitration agreement, when it comes to a dissension? I mean, it's a really dangerous substance, which is a misusing substance, which is something that sides can use wrongly by complaining about each other, by complaining about each other. So that's why I think this clause needs to be removed from the bill, and our group has made a motion like this, so please let me ask you to accept it. Now, during these undercover studies, when the breach of privacy was so severely punished, we've always said that during these intermediary activities, strong will always be strong, weak will be crushed. There will be no protection of the weak. All the gains we've gained in our law are the principle of interpretation in favour of the worker, the principle of interpretation for the weak, the protection of the righteous against the unjust; all of which will have been somehow eliminated, so its strength will have continued with the violations of that privacy. If the judgment is on the side of the righteous, if the republic has built this system to become an orphan, now we're destroying it all with this non-disclosure clause. You take a stand not for the weak, but for the strong; you guard the strong, and you cover them in some way with the non-disclosure clause. That's why we think this clause should be removed from the bill for violation of confidentiality. We give you all our regards.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0362par0251	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 33 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 34th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. We respectfully submit and offer to replace the phrase "instruction" with the phrase "insults" following the "instructions" in his joke. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0363par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0362par0265	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0364par0266	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0365par0267	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0362par0268	Motive. It's recommended that the text be more understandable. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 34 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 35 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 35th Amendment bill in the Law Incompatibility Act we're discussing. Article 1 of the article. We respectfully submit and propose that the declaration of "history" be added to the text by the release of the declaration "after 19/3/1969 " in the joke. Ali İhsan İktuk Ali Özgündüz Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0366par0283	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0362par0284	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0367par0285	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0368par0286	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0362par0287	I'm reading the reason: It was recommended to correct the spelling error in the article. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 35th article is accepted. There are no motions on Article 36. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Article 36 has been accepted. There's a motion on the temporary item one, I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Interim Article 1 of the bill for mediation in the Law Incompatibility we're discussing is 2. The phrase "for the first three years" in his joke, "will be chosen by the Minister of Justice, " removed from the text and replaced with the text of the text "the mediators will choose from among themselves." 3. The release of the statement "It will be chosen by the Ministry of Justice at the end of this period" in the joke, adding the phrase "The peacemakers will choose from among themselves"; And this is the 5. We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the joke. (5) This law is 18. The provisions for the appeal of the decisions are carried out until the Courts of Responsibility are set up to decide whether the actionable verdicts can be passed against the verdicts. Erdal Aksunger Dilek Akagün Yilmalmattin Karaahmetoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0369par0305	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0362par0306	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0370par0307	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0371par0308	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-06sit07spe0362par0309	I'm reading the reason: Not by the Justice Minister, but by the mediators themselves, who will be elected to the negotiating board, for the purposes of the negotiators to choose from among themselves, 5. The joke has been proposed to clarify the implementation of the law, since there have not yet been a court of law. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 1 is accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 2, those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 2 is accepted. I submit to your votes, Article 37: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 37 is accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 38 is accepted. This concludes the vote of the substances in the second chapter. There is a request for a statement in favor of Polish and anti-responsibility, according to the Civil Code 86. According to Tunceli MP Kamer, there is a demand for a statement, but I can't give it because it's not here. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the bill is accepted and legal. I wish him well. Since we have reached the end of our working period, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday, June 7, 2012, to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
