tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 98th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu, who wants to talk about Armenian genocide claims. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today is a day in which Armenian diaspora and Armenians celebrate and commemorate as the day of genocide on charges of genocide in 1915. So what really happened on April 24, 1915, and what had happened before that, and why did it become known as the day of the genocide by the Armenians on April 24th? What were the events in which Armenians and Armenian thesis advocates in particular refrained from arguing, described otherwise as official history? First of all, shouldn't locals and foreigners who consider this history a day of genocide have to answer these questions? 1) Did the Armenians cooperate with the Russians, the British and the French during World War I? Two: Did they fight against the soldiers of their own country while the war continued? Third: How many places in Asia Minor were riots? The fourth question is: What organizations did Armenians who were arrested on April 24th belong to? The fifth question: How many have survived, and how many have died in death, and how many have been killed? The sixth question is: Armenian gangs must answer questions about how many civilian Muslims they killed during the time of the contract. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll show you a picture here. This picture belongs to an Armenian named Grigoris Balakian. This Grigoris Balakian gave records of all the Armenians who were arrested on April 24th and what prisons they were sent to and how many of them had returned or -- despite their arrest -- they had not been there. So an Armenian writer put all the records into it. Let me put it this way: 235 Armenians were arrested, but only 135 Armenians were arrested; some of the others fled abroad, some of whom sent their brothers or some of whom they knew to their place. So these people, some of them journalists, some of them dentists, some of them doctors, but they're all members of the organization. These are the records of their own deeds. But beyond that, until April 1915, 24th, why did the Ottoman government arrest these 235 people? And shouldn't they be considered? Since 1914, we know that Armenians have rebelled in various parts of Asia Minor, but I will count three of the most important. There are 23 riots, so there are 23 riots in Anatolia before 24 April. One of the most important is the riots of Van, Çatak, Bitlis and Mush, starting on April 17th. This area is important to both the Caucasus armies and the Mosul armies. There's Zaytun Rebellion, and there's Mount Musa's Rebellion. All documents, of course, are in the French archives, but look, the rebellion started on April 17th, and Van fell on May 17th. Even though the rebels warned the Ottoman State on April 17th, they were taken into custody for not stopping the work, and they were all members of the organization. But after Van fell, he was cremated like this. The newspaper Gosnak, one of his own newspapers, says that after the fall of the van, we seized eight hundred and ten cannons with many weapons, and burned down all the buildings and barracks of the government. There are no more than 1,500 Turkish women and children left in Van. He writes them himself. In fact, think of it this way: their own citizens drew a gun on the government and rebelled against the government in an enemy uniform. In a situation like this, blaming the Ottoman State for April 24th, accusing the Turks of genocide is both indecisive and treason. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz, who asked about the genocide of Armenia and the occupied Azerbaijan lands in Azerbaijan. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, today is April 24th. Every year these days, in the West, especially in the United States, Armenians are in the delusion of genocide with the support of the Armenian state, with the diaspora channel. I'm going to tell you a little bit about what happened in those years. The violence committed by the Armenians at Hodjalı 20 years ago was evident. But before that, in March and April 1918, during the Festival of Nevruz, Armenian troops slaughtered around 60,000 Turkish and Muslim people in Bakû, Damascus, Kuba, Mugan, Lenkeran, Nahcivan and Zengezur. Thus, the state of Azerbaijan referred to it as the day of the genocide against the Turks of Azerbaijan on March 31st. Fifty-eight villages were slain in Damascus, and one hundred and twenty-two villages in Cuba, and one hundred and fifty villages in the mountain region of Karabağ, and one hundred and fifteen villages in Zengezur. In the same years, in Kars. - Today in Kars, 92 villages were burned down, and thousands of our people were slaughtered. In 1916, about 300,000 Turks lived in Erivan, and in 1922, the number dropped to 70,000. In Kuba, the places of worship were burned, and the mosques were destroyed, and the people were slain in the mosques. Today, in Cuba, the skulls and bones of thousands of people who were slaughtered in those years are displayed. If the world is curious, let him go to Azerbaijan, and to Cuba, and see it. Dear lawmakers, famous American historian John Joey of World War I, wrote of the November 1928 Armenian events: Today, Americans who cried for Armenian tragedy do not realize that before this national conflict took place, Armenians had a privileged right to the Ottomans. In the first World War, the Armenians had little knowledge that they had delivered Turkish cities to Russian raiders, and that they had created 150,000 Armenian military forces to wage civil war, that they had burned down Turkish villages and destroyed the people there. Again, US scientist Justin Mccarthy, Professor Guariz of Columbia University and Professor Bernhard Buhi of the University of Philishave, have stated in 1915 that the Ottoman-Russian war was established in the Ottoman War and that the Armenian groups supported by the Tsarish Russians were armed against the legitimate Turkish Ottoman State, and that the Ottoman State had decided to intervene in order to intercept Russian aid to Armenian gangs in the region, and that it was justified by the attempt to establish an Armenian state where they were fired. Dear friends, in the years of the First World War, in the land where I was born, in the land of Iğdır, in Kars, I heard and heard the violence of Armenian gangs from my grandfathers, ten or twelve years old. In our village of Hakmehmet, in the village of Oba, in the village of Tuzluca Gedikli (Tavusgün), the excavations were found in front of hundreds of Turkish and foreign observers. So, when we look at things like this, I think that the real genocide should be determined by this Parliament by the Armenian gangsters who are now occupying 20 per cent of Azerbaijan's territory. If we want to fully understand the events of World War I, let them open the archives of France, England, America, Russia, and our archives are already wide open in this regard. Let the expert historians examine the matter and make a decision. Therefore, I wish the Armenians would give up this delusion. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Original. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Seyit Sertçelilik, who wants to speak about baseless Armenian claims. Here you go, Mr. Toughness.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0006par0043	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs to mark April 24th, some of whom have been called the so-called Armenian genocide day. I salute your high council. In order to understand Armenian events, it must be well known what happened in Turkey until April 24, 1915. 1914 was a year of planning and editing to remove the Ottoman State from the historical scene, described as the sick man. In order for colonial forces to share the patient's legacy to carry out their projects on Turkey, the patient needed internal forces to help him strike the final blow. In this context, colonial states sought to find a relative who would harm the Ottoman State in order to ensure their national interests. The colonial Western states have seen the Ottoman Armenians as the force to strike the Ottoman state from the inside. The Armenians, however, have found this role to suit them in order to get at least an autonomous state they've been dreaming of for a long time. The beginning of World War I was seen as a historic opportunity and moment not to be abducted by Armenian dignitaries. While the Ottoman Empire fought on many fronts, the Armenians fought against the Ottoman army on the Caucasus front, while putting the rest of the front at risk with their riots in the country. Most Ottoman nationals, armed by the Russians on the Caucasus front, have fought against the Ottoman army within volunteer units. Outside these troops, the number of Armenians fighting in the Russian army is given by some foreign sources at 150,000 and some at 300,000. As some Armenian writers have stated, the Armenians have become allies and allies in this war. The Armenians, who collaborated with the Tsarial armies, did not only ensure that the Russian army was taken over, but also killed tens of thousands of Muslims. The Ottoman government has warned the Armenian Patriarch, the mebuses and its dignitaries, but no results have been achieved. On April 24, 1915, Armenian Komitas were shut down, and 235 people were arrested and sent to Çankırı and Ayash prisons on charges of devastating activity against the Ottoman State. Here's what Armenians call the day of genocide, April 24, 1915, when the Komitas were closed and the arrests were made. Congressmans, what happened to 1,300,000 Armenians who lived in Turkey before the war? According to the Russian Caucasus Front Commission for Settlement of Refugees, the number of Armenians from Turkey to Russian territory is 337,000. The February 26, 1917, issue of the Armenian Belleteni magazine, published in Russia, emphasised that the number of Armenians moved to Russian territory was 360 thousand. In view of those who went to Russia before the war and those who went to Iran, the number reached 500,000 people. The number of people offered is between 450 and 500,000. In the following years, most of these Armenians migrated to foreign countries. During the war, 300,000 Armenians continued to live in Turkey. Most of the Armenian casualties were fired at the front by Armenian soldiers taking bullets against the Ottoman army. In addition, there are tens of thousands of deaths from hunger, infectious diseases, and cold climate conditions. 40,000 Armenians died from negative conditions on Russian soil alone in the Caucasus. The number of people killed as a result of the attacks by some tribes is ten thousand. All Armenian losses are about 150, but as Russian intelligence states, 1.5 million Armenians have been killed by adding a zero to this issue. Members of parliament, in the words of Armenian broadcaster Arshak Çobanian, there is no need to exaggerate in all crises, but there is no truth in the destruction of Armenians in Turkey. Those who keep false Armenian claims on the agenda are actually hurting the Armenian people by preventing Turkey and Armenia's relations from developing. Friendship and peace between countries cannot be built by scratching historical problems. May peace and friendship prevail in our surroundings and in the world, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Toughness. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Kosovo Parliament Speaker Jakup Krasniqi, along with a Parliamentary Committee to visit our country, has been approved by the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 1704,2012 date and resolution 22. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The clause shall be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The minimum wage is described as the most effective social policy tool for protecting workers and their family against the minimum wage and low wages that will allow them to live humanly according to the economic and social conditions of the day. According to Article 39 of the Employment Act in Turkey, the minimum wage of any employee working with a contract of employment is determined by the "Asgarial Price Tespit Commission." According to the "Asgarial Price Rule," which regulates the setting of minimum wage, the Commission considers its social and economic status, livelihood indexes, the general state and conditions of actual wages. The minimum wage for the July-December 2011 period is a net $658.95 for workers who have turned 16 and a net $571.97 for workers who are not 16 years old. This minimum wage, unfortunately, is far from providing a life of human dignity under today's conditions. In Article 55 of our Constitution, the payment of the amount of labour is in accordance with the 55th article of the Constitution. The state takes the necessary measures to obtain a fair wage for the work of employees and to benefit from other benefits. The assessment of minimum wage includes the living conditions and the economic situation of the country. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, everyone who works has the right to a fair and affordable wage, which provides a life for himself and his family in accordance with the dignity of humanity, and is completed with all the means of social protection, if necessary. At the entrance of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Constitution, the wages that provide only for workers and their families are not enough to live on as human beings. For a worker to live humanely, he must have sufficient wages. We understand from these texts that the state must take the necessary measures for employees to obtain fair income, and the minimum wage is determined because of the arrangement of the employee's economic and social status. According to the latest data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, the hunger limit of a family of four is $318, the poverty limit is $896. According to research by the Turkish Unions of Labor, the hunger limit is 902.41 euros, and the poverty limit is 2939.45 euros. Sadly, while the authority of the institution explaining these figures is a member of the minimum wage Tespit Commission, the minimum wage is well below the data provided by Turkey's Statistics Agency. It's very thoughtful, very sad, very embarrassing, the most obvious example of disrespect for labor for our country. It is estimated that around 4 million people work for minimum wage in Turkey. Together with their families, they are unable to meet their mandatory needs, such as food, housing, electricity, water, fuel, clothing, health care, transport and education, through the prices and conditions of the day. With the minimum wage set today, unfortunately, employees are suspended from human living conditions. It is not clear that our country's economy continues to grow day after day, because economic stagnation is over, industry is increasing, inflation is under expectations, unemployment is down, Turkey is not affected by the crises in the world, and tax revenues are increasing day by day, and those who show our country daily smileiness do not seem to be able to show what attitude they have in determining the minimum wage. The working people say that this pink painting, reflected by government officials to the Turkish people, is not really reflected in their income, that they and their families are unable to maintain a life of human dignity. Therefore, no one can argue that the minimum wage set in our country provides the criteria for the Constitution, the law or the regulation. In Turkey, minimum wage must be saved from being the name of minimum poverty. The minimum wage must be cut from being "slavely wage" in order for working workers to live humanly, to enjoy a balanced diet, a healthy life. Therefore, everyone who works must have the right to receive a fair and affordable wage for himself and his family, which provides a life that is suitable for the honor of mankind, and is completed with all kinds of social protection tools, if necessary. In light of the information provided above, the minimum wage is 104 of the TBM Civil Code in order to determine the problems of employees and determine the minimum wage to provide a life level of human dignity. And 105. Articles 98 of the Constitution. In accordance with the clause, I'd like you to open "Meclis Research." 1) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] 7) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[Artvin]] 17) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The right to live is the most basic of human rights and the one at the head of human beings. Human body immunity and the right to live in good health are guaranteed through the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international contracts. It's the reality that when people are living a free life, they're arrested as suspects of any crime, they're imprisoned or convicted, and they're inequal with a free man who's just trying to use rights and freedoms, and they don't lose the qualities of being human. The state is obliged to protect the health of prisoners and prisoners under its protection and to treat the sick. The state's failure to perform such duties is clearly a violation of abuse and human rights, not preventing a dangerous process for the health of prisoners and prisoners. It is the government's duty to ensure that these people can be treated in the fastest and most reliable way, to use the right to choose doctors and hospitals for critical interventions. It is known that many prisoners or convicted individuals, who are heavily ill, or even on the brink of life, are clearly and firmly stable, are in violation of the agreements on the minimum implementation of prisoners and prisoners of the United Nations and the Council of Europe, under poor and unhealthy conditions of the prison. In this framework, international documents have also established very advanced standards regarding the rights of prisoners and prisoners. A set of standards are set to protect prisoners and prisoners, to ensure the use of their rights, and to improve prison conditions. In international contracts, health care in prisons is said to be equal to opportunities outside of prison, and the conditions for prisoners to always have access to a doctor and to use that right without delay are required. In this sense, prisoners and prisoners have the right to free treatment, to choose their hospital and their doctor. It is the government's duty to ensure that prisoners and prisoners in need of special treatment are transferred to special institutions or hospitals. If health care is provided within the institution, the equipment, equipment, and drug supplies of these institutions are indicated to be sufficient and quality for the needs of sick prisoners and prisoners and to have qualified trained officers. It is known that many patients and convicts have lost their lives in prisons because of the arbitrary practices of the administration responsible for the right to health care of individuals, while many prisoners and prisoners have struggled with deadly diseases and have struggled to survive. Although there are some regulations concerning the rights of prisoners and prisoners in both international human rights law and national law, the use of these rights is available through authorities. The use of the rights of prisoners and prisoners is in the hands of someone else, which can lead to an arbitrary constraint of rights. It is clear that the state responsible for the body and body integrity of prisoners and prisoners is also obliged to ensure that these rights can be used. In the use of a basic right to health care, the state's obligation is greater than the citizens outside. The fact that applications to institutions operating in the field of human rights have shown that prisoners and prisoners, who are inequal to use their rights and freedoms, cannot receive adequate, quality and equal health care, have suffered serious human right violations, medical, moral and humanitarian scandals. It is clear that a sacred and lofty body, representing national will, would not stand a chance for the violation of the most fundamental right of human rights, since it could not be considered insensitive to all the problems in the country. Therefore, in prisons, prisoners and prisoners who are helpless need to be protected by their healthy rights and fullness of the body. In order to do so, prisons need to be monitored and evaluated the conditions of prisoners and prisoners here, health problems and people whose health has deteriorated. The way to do that is to preserve the right to live, politics, prejudice, the shadow of lawlessness, which is the basis of human rights. Hence, this request for research does not apply to a political axis. A common problem of every political party and society, whether it is in power or opposition, is being stepped on. A direct investigation into human health, human life, and justice is based on a unanimous vote and carried out as Parliamentary activity, which coincides with the common purpose of politics. It's politics' job to solve problems first. It is not a method in the democratic state of law to avoid problems by ignoring them or by concealing them or diverting them. In order to ensure the security and responsibility of the state of life, the conditions of the sick prisoners and prisoners, and the reasons for their health problems, to determine whether there are people who have died in prisons so far due to their health problems, and to ensure that the necessary measures are immediately taken, we would be honored to open a parliamentary investigation under the provisions of Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 6) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 7) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Adana]] [[Artvin]] [[Eskişehir]] 16) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] 18) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On May 1, 1977, hundreds of thousands of workers filled the area of division to celebrate Labor Day. DİSK President Kemal Türkler was talking about gunfire, followed by a series of shots fired from the Sular Administration building, Inter Continental Hotel rooms, and over Pamuk Pharmaceuticals. 37 dead, hundreds injured. The May 1, 1977 massacre, carved in memory, was said to be the'senter' phase of the operation against Turkey. From that day on, blood flowed, peace was not restored, and the country was moved to the coup of September 12th. It is a pity that this extensive operation, which is said to have carried Gladio's signature in order to prevent Turkey from slipping to the left, is still inconspicuous. Who are the shooters? How do these people fit in there? "The planner is the CIA. The CIA evacuated the Intercontinental Hotel a day earlier and deployed CIA agents from the United States. After the incident, the hotel records from that night were destroyed. After the incident, 10 Americans left the country that night without leaving their bags on the ground for a moment without even a search." Why were the allegations not answered? At that time in the morning newspaper Necati Right, "5. The door to a room on the floor was open. I came in thinking that the journalists were in this room because I saw people watching the area from the windows of the room, and I saw teleobjective machines on the table. As soon as I stepped in, I was stopped by a very aggressive push. I asked the waiter who was in this room, and he said, "I got the police answer." When the hotel's 510 was nested in room 510 and the MIT reported to Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel that the massacre was carried out as a military coup by Congerilla and the CHP leader was assassinated at the İzmir airport on 29 May 1977, the issue of how the Commander of the Black Forces of the period was rushed to retirement on 1 June 1977. Enlightenment of the May 1, 1977 massacre and other unsolved events is the demand of everyone in favor of democracy. Those who were killed in the massacres have the right to find out who killed them and why, to remove the shawl covered in the killings, to tear the dark curtain, and to light the darkness. There's no such thing as "inconclusive" in law enforcement. If there's an unsolved incident in a country, it's not a state of law. In law states, murder cannot be avoided by state secrets or other reasons. The Secret of the State is a combination of information that is dangerous and forbidden to explain the continuity of state's open and secret interests. Are these and other political massacres meant to protect the interests of the state so that the state's secret can be avoided? If darkness is still not sought to be enlightened by the concept of state secret, then we cannot speak of the democratic state of law. The verb and perpetrator connection between the March 1st 1977 and March 16, 1978 massacres of September 12th, as well as the murders left unsolved, shows the presence of a power over governments. We are investigating how the cause of the massacre of 1 May 1977, in terms of the radicalization of the "law state" which is based on the law of the state, rather than the "law of the state" of the holy state, which is based on the law of the state, which is based on the "law state" based on the United States, by covering up the anti-Contgerilla activity of the United States, by how it was done, how the perpetrators of the judicial process, how the state was removed from responsibility, how the state was blocked by the judicial process and by the methods of our country, and how the constitution, by the way its fundamental order of the system of the religion, by creating ethnicities, by the way its ethnicities, by which the ethnicities and the massacres were made, in order to be investigated in order to determine by the circumstances, in order to determine by the circumstances, in order to determine the circumstances of the state's internal chaos, and in order to determine the state's affairs, and in order of the process of the civil process. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] 5) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Artvin]] [[Eskişehir]] 18) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Dora, you have a brief request. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0008par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, 800 prisoners and prisoners in Mardin E Type Prison were poisoned by the food they ate, and 10 people are currently receiving IV treatment. HDP MP Faysal Sarıyıldız, who was arrested in Mardin province, is also among the prisoners who have been poisoned. According to the Human Rights Association Mardin Branch, cases of mass poisoning occur every two months in prison. The conditions of Mardin Type E Prison, which holds almost three times its capacity, are unfortunately far from worthy of human dignity. Let's not forget that prisoners and prisoners are guaranteed by the state, and a truly democratic state of law must treat prisoners and prisoners whose freedoms have been taken from them in a manner worthy of human dignity. In this regard, we expect the Ministry of Justice to take immediate action in order to improve the conditions of the prison. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0009par0239	Thank you. We wish them all well. Mr. Tanal, you entered the system during non-responsibility conversations. You know, in my practice, I make no promises except on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0010par0242	I'm asking you, I think it's important not to change the practice of one person to another, because it's important.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0009par0243	The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday 24,04,2012 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Council. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's bill of law, number 223, 74, 77, 139 and 221 in the section of "Proposals of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" shall be adopted into rows 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 in order of this order of other tasks. In the Joint of the General Assembly on Wednesday 25/04/2012, Ankara MP Aytug Atıcı and 20 MPs need to investigate and determine the measures of violence against health workers and measures which need to be taken, İzmir MP Hülya Baluken and 22 MPs need to investigate the increasing violence and violence and measures against health workers and to investigate the measures that need to be taken, as well as to investigate the cases of violence and the measures that need to be taken against the health workers of the MPs and those who need to be investigated and to investigate the violence of the MPs and those who are working on the basis for the investigation of the violence against the health workers and those who are working on the basis of the parliamentary measures. On Tuesday (April 24, 2012), April 24, 2012, without discussing verbal questions and other audit issues, until the completion of talks on the agenda's bill and proposals and on the commissions' number 223. On Wednesday (April 25, 2012), until the completion of talks on Bill 139, On Thursday (April 26, 2012), until the meeting of law proposal number 136 on Thursday; The above-level combinations have been recommended to continue the work until the completion of daily programs, if the daily programmes cannot be completed at 2400 p.m. In favor of the proposal, Salih Big Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0011par0264	Mr. President, along with our proposal for the EC PARTI group, some laws, including the postponement and restructuring of public institution heads, such as TMSF, BDK, Public Surveillance, to reduce their mandates to five years and re-election, and for the two-year ban on the same work of interim work, and also the adoption of the Transaction of the Transgression of the Transactions Again, and, in addition to the Privatisation Administration of the Disasters, Turkey's Sugar Factors and Resolvestment of the Restition of the Relations on the Borders; again, the International Convention Again, the Transaction of the Translion of the Transation of the Transnational Karaway Transport; the Constructration of Foods Againstancestance and Restancestancestancestancestances Against the European Convention, and Restancestancestances Againstance of the European Convention Against the European Convention Against the European Conventionstivest the European Conventions. As part of the Eskişehir 2013 Turkish Cultural Capital Project, I hope that the preparation for this law is also important for the immediate discussion of it and for the implementation of the projects to be put into effect. I hereby make a pledge in favor of our group proposal. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0009par0267	Thank you, Mr. Husband. Hasip Kaplan has spoken against the proposal, Şırnak MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0012par0270	Mr. President, we've gotten used to the fact that each week, with a new proposal, the EC PARTY group has lost track of time in their proposals. In every motion, Turkey's agenda is not their agenda. Their agenda is the extension of their parties, their supporters' mandates, procedures and legislation related to it. We're going through a lot of historical times, and there's a lot going on right in front of our eyes. There are arrested MPs on the agenda of the House. Yesterday was April 23rd, we arrived. It says on that wall, "The government belongs to the nation unconditionally." We must have put it there as an ornament. If we didn't put it in ornaments, eight MPs would be serving in Congress today. Now, one of the MPs who was supposed to be in this parliament, Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldız was poisoned along with 800 prisoners and convicts from the potato dish distributed in Mardin Prison. Is this a beautiful view of Turkey, my friends? There were 100 people in the ICU, we're tracking them, and they're life-threatening. Ten of these 100 people, especially two, are said to be very heavy. Prisons are a bleeding wound, but we can't talk. How do we get through this? We can't talk. If we're alone with our humanity and we're alone with our conscience, we can't explain to the AK PARTY group, MPs, there's a Haberal law. Execution Act 136, they insist on bringing it in. He's a paralegal under arrest. His mother passed away. You made a special law to put a wedge in that law, you gave a special clause to the person. Article 1 is contrary to the Constitution, law, law, everything, against humanity, but you must be congratulated and appreciated, making a private villa prison for Mehmet Agar to live in. Do you have a special interest in convicts as a power? Tell me, are you a gangster or do you do private prisons? Private prisons, private bathrooms, private bathrooms, private security are not enough; for coup generals, seven star halls in the GATA, the coup d'état general in the grand halls, the coupting generals of September 12th, Kenan Evren (Gahin) and Şahinkaya. Do they have special privileges? When is an equality between people in this country, and when will the law be protected? Is that justice in the name of your party, for God's sake? Is that what you understand when you say justice, justice, in the name of your party? Are you a partying gangster or a coupger? You always say it's not like that, you always say it. Yesterday, on this bench, the Prime Minister said this Parliament is judging the coupgers. If you're judging the coupgers, what's the special interest? What, then, is the meaning of discrimination, bringing in special laws, disparaging the Constitution, the law, the law of execution, the law of execution? All the tensions and tensions in society will be on your neck. I'm telling you, if this law comes through here, you're gonna have all the plague that's gonna come out of society. The only person whose nose is bleeding, because of these events, because of the tension, is the plague of every person who dies because of this law. We've been trying for two months, we've had enough, that's enough. You bring it in, you bring it in, you put it in front of us like rice. Go, do a proper execution law, do an execution regime, there are hundreds of convictions in the European Court of Human Rights; make a proper trial. You're making an offer, and in your proposal, you're saying that if the state's attorney gives a direct order, he can ban it for six months. You're gonna leave three managers? No one accepts such discrimination. Get it out of your head. Take out your number one item, and bring out the law of the Haberal; and let us bring out all the groups, and bring forth the law of the Haberal, and let us bring it forth this day. But don't put a wedge in it, don't put a wedge in it; when such a law comes, don't put a wedge in its way from the opposition. And give up the habit of jamming. Now, here's what you're bringing. Now, not only that, we're in the middle of a hot conflict about the country's real agenda, the Middle East is boiling. Talks, comings, goings; America, Ankara -- Baghdad on one hand -- Damascus on the other, Tehran on the other, Syria on the other, 26,000 refugees on the Syrian border -- aren't we going to talk about it, or are we going to talk about it with privatisation, with TMSF, with rantla, with the money, do we have to live with it? And when are we going to get to this country's real agenda? Look, in this land, there's been the greatest tragedy of history, perhaps all of us. Can we break the taboos, can this Parliament speak, can it face certain facts? Has this Parliament of 1915 been able to speak on its own terms about the Armenian incident, and can we question it? Look, be careful, it's spoken in all the councils, but can we face our own history, reality, humanity, conscience? What trains carried to Ayashah, Çankırı, or who caused whom, whose minus, and how much is the error? The massacre, genocide, deportation, what's his name, what do the Ottoman archives say? Can't we pull out the Ottoman archives and talk in this House? If we can't talk, if we can't face the truth, then -- this Parliament -- every year -- look, there's elections in France, in America -- every day, one country brings it to our agenda, coming to the parliament of all the countries of the world. Here, we have a Parliament that is unable to discuss this. Yes, there will come a time when, of course, it's important not to forget the great disasters, but to be able to be able to face reality, our history, together with people who have not lost their senses and feelings of justice. The people who did this have stood up and walked. We believe that there is no hostility among the people in the world in any way. We still have about 100,000 Armenian citizens living in our country. It always comes up. Isn't it the House's job to get over it, to talk about it? What's Sarkozy doing in France? What did Obama offer? What was brought to the Icelandic Parliament? Why did this come up in 30 parliaments? Why do historians and politicians have separate jobs? These should be evaluated separately. Can't he say? Why can't they talk? Why can't you go to the archives? We've moved from Ottoman to Republic. Why can't we face the facts? We need to put all this on the agenda of the House. When we can't solve this, we can't solve the Kurdish problem. When we can't talk about it, we can't talk about the Kurdish problem. It must be Turkey's first agenda to get rid of tension from the conflict process. Other than that, the agendas are all stories. As long as the Kurdish problem doesn't make the first agenda, the AK PARTY, the rest is a story. Therefore, we express our opposition to this proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0013par0278	Thank you. Oktay Vural, Izmir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0014par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the AKP group proposal. I hereby salute the committee with my compliments. In fact, as the National Movement Party, I'd like to present what we agree on about this AKP group proposal, and what we object to. Today, we were planning on bringing in a group of suggestions. In particular, unfortunately, Syrian policy is being created in the external centers. We read in foreign media or columnists as lawmakers. Unfortunately, there was no negotiation at the Turkish Grand National Assembly on this issue. We've made a general debate motion on this, and we're going to ask for that general meeting to be brought up today. On this occasion, we met with AKP Deputy Minister Ayşe Nur. They said the minister would brief the Turkish Grand National Assembly on Thursday. On this trend, as the National Movement Party, we withdrew our group proposal because we would at least be able to inform Parliament of such a thing. But I want to make an open call from here: Come, let's all, together, turn this into a general discussion, where are the Syrian policy being created, what are our concerns, where is Turkey going, what's going on in Syria; let's discuss all this together, in front of the nation. Because you'll appreciate that the centre of national policies should be the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this regard, instead of eliminating such an important agenda with the Minister's request for an off-the-book word, Parliament must take it on the agenda and make a full assessment of it. In that respect, Mr. Secretary, we certainly see it as positive that he came to Parliament to provide at least some information about this, but we think that this issue should be discussed, especially through general discussion, by taking the Turkish Parliament seriously. It's not something that can be fixed by five or ten minutes, but it's a matter of Turkey's future, and today it's about Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister goes to China, goes to Qatar, goes to Saudi Arabia, talks everywhere, so Barzani and Syria are discussed, but Syria is not discussed in front of the Turkish nation. What does Barzani have to do with anything? So Turkish foreign policy is not a policy to be formed by consultation, under the direction of such a regional administration. It must be national, and information must be made up of national resources. Each member of parliament sitting here has the right to question and learn what is going on as an MP responsible for the Turkish nation. In that regard, it is not right to hide information about these issues from the public, from the MPs, and not to share them. Cypriot policy should also be formed here; any policy should be discussed here; Turkey's foreign policy should not be discussed in foreign centres; plans established in foreign centers, negotiations should not be imposed on the Turkish nation. In that respect, let's all say our words together in front of the esteemed MPs who represent the Turkish nation. I don't want the MPs to find out what the press thinks, so let's share this information directly here, evaluate this information, take the opposition's assessment of what needs to be done in order to form a national policy. My clear call in this regard is to the Justice and Development Party; let's not discuss an important agenda such as the bride, Syria, but let's discuss it as the agenda of the House, let's discuss it as the agenda of parliament, let's do a general discussion, let's combine all parties' demands on this issue, let's combine the Turkish nation's pulse, opinion, and opinions, and we think that we should use this opportunity to create a national policy here. So I want to make it very clear that the Justice and Development Party should provide this as well as a step forward. One of the things that is positive about this group's proposal, in its nature, is that it is met by combining the motions for violent research for health workers. It is imperative that a research commission be set up on this matter. Indeed, we have condemned this violence against health workers as the National Movement Party Group. Today, in the afternoon, Turkish Health-Sen protested particularly condemning this hostile approach to health workers. So, if people are discussing this, we think that the Turkish Parliament should handle these consequences in a violent way, as well as accounting, by establishing a research commission for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has turned our doctors, health workers into machines, and, frankly, the health system that leads our citizens to unqualified health care in health care in health as well as in health care. In this regard, I would like to say that I find that positive. Of course, bag number 223 is our opposition to the law, especially in terms of individual practices. There will be a meeting today, and we will, of course, express our views on them. If only we could do so before her mother died, if only others hadn't stopped it. We'll discuss it on Thursday, but it would have been my heart's desire to have it called the name of an MP, called the Herald's Law, but I wish this change had been made earlier to allow inmates to see their sick mother and father. However, you won't change your mind about this on Thursday, because there's been a lot of change of heart about it, and every day the ideas change -- I hope we see each other. Of course, on this occasion, I hope that we can all spend a change here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in a clear and open way, in which the arrested MPs can be tried without arrest and use the will of the nation here. It's not just those MPs' problem, but the imprisonment of the nation's will, no matter who's the problem, friends, it's the nation's problem. Not as a party issue, but as a problem of national sovereignty, national will. While we're struggling with the coups, when we're questioning the blows, if we're not supposed to call them "good" or "bad" coup, in this case, the national will must bring and pass an approach that will pave the way for their incarceration. Naturally, the Consultative Council proposals... the AKP Group often change their minds. Ms. Ayşe Nur, I hope this isn't due to a lack of synchronization among the members of the group. Because we said that he would work until eight o'clock today, and then 21. It's increased to 100, now it's said to be completed, but it doesn't suit the MPs until it's completed, or until it's completed to this Parliament. In that respect, let's put all the time on the agenda. Let's talk about it if we need to see each other during that time, but, you know, until we do, it doesn't suit the Turkish Grand National Assembly, I think. In this regard, I also know that the expression until the completion of this statement, the will, is not really so, but even this expression is beginning to bother me. I don't think it's right to make a group's decision by forcing the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the General Assembly, to lawmakers, by the majority of their will, if you complete it, if you don't complete it. I don't think it's right to impose on a group of decisions in parentheses such as the parentheses. So, what we're going to discuss today is a law proposal, and this agenda, in fact, is an agenda that we need to complete and complete in a certain amount of time. And as the National Movement Party, I would like to express that we will use our civil rights as part of the Civil Code on the completion of this agenda. I wish you all the best for our nation this week's work.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0015par0296	Thank you. Akif Hamzaçebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0016par0300	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party. At the beginning of my speech, I salute you. The more the agenda of parliament coincides with the public agenda, the more compatible it is, the better Parliament is on its way. Without this conflict, if the agenda of Parliament and the agenda of the nation differs, Parliament is so wrong or Parliament is wasting time. There have been times when Parliament caught up with this agenda, and there have been times when it couldn't. When we look at the country's agenda, we see a growing longing for democracy, freedom, and need for freedom. We see that a serious package of democracy that we can sum up as democratization or deepen democracy is a great need for the Turkish community, but we find that there is still no agenda or clauses in the Parliament's agenda to meet that need. There's an important unemployment in the economy. Even though there was a growing unemployment, which was not reduced compared to ten years ago, even though there were diminishing savings, even though there was a current economic policy that was condemned, we see that there was no serious economic package to address the problems of this economic policy. We should talk about this, but unfortunately that is not on Turkey's agenda. Since the agenda is marked by a significant ruling party, the ruling party is bringing the agenda of Turkey's party to the front of Turkey's community, far from the real agenda of the nation. On today's agenda, there are issues we agree on, things we disagree on. For example, it is the opinion of the Republican People's Party that tomorrow's agenda will be discussed, and it is the opinion of the People's Party of the Republic to open a parliamentary investigation into violence to health workers, who I see have motions for all political parties. Again, the agenda of a legal arrangement which is referred to in public as the "Haberal Law" is another agenda that the Republican People's Party will support, which allows the prisoners to visit their patients who are actually sick, who are seriously ill. Some international agreements are international agreements that the Republican People's Party agrees with. We think they should be removed, too. There are also different views of the Republican People's Party on the proposal that we can call "Torba" or "the bag of legislation" or "the bill," which has passed through the Plan and Budget Commission, allowing the presidents of the BDDK and TMSF to extend their mandates or serve two periods in a row, but in which there are many other provisions. These will be expressed here by our friends when the relevant proposal comes up. Now, when it comes down to it, I'd like to express my opinion on some of the issues involved in that proposal, when I'm here to organise the mandates of the presidents and members of the BDDK and the TMSF. One clause of the proposal organises a amendment to Article 401 of the Turkish Trade Law. You know, in January 2011, the Turkish Trade Law was adopted by a special agenda that was agreed upon by political parties in the Parliament of that period. A total of five-point package, including the Turkish Trade Law, the Turkish Law on Debts, the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Trade and Debts, was legalized in Parliament in January 2011, in a period of three days or so. These laws, which should be discussed in the basic form of law, have not even been discussed as the basic law, and have been implemented a much shorter process of legislation, because as a fundamental law, the period of discussion could be several weeks if these laws were discussed. Considering that each 30 clauses were considered a clause in the basic law, the adoption of a package of 2,700 articles would take several weeks to pass. At that time, as the Republican People's Party, we supported the legislation of these bills, but we had a record. In particular, the account that we established regarding the legalisation of the Turkish Trade Law was this: We are enforcing this bill, but some of the provisions of this bill are problematic. So in the next year and a half, let's identify these problems in a year-and-a-half time predicted for the implementation, and let's bring the amendments and regulations to Turkey's Grand National Assembly for the resolution of these problems. At that time, when the government considered a date for the legalisation of the Turkish Trade Law, especially six months later, we, the People's Party, proposed that six months would not be enough, and that the law should be added a year and a year and a half later, along with the adoption of all parties. The Turkish Trade Law will take effect on 1 July 2012 unless another amendment is brought into effect. I have to say that the bill brings a lot of new regulations on many issues, that many of the arrangements that have been made in the context of harmony with the European Union are truly positive, and that the business world will pave the way for the economy. I must say that I did not approve of an approach to sacrifice the entire bill on the occasion of the shortcomings of the bill, but some of the problems that have been raised today have been expressed by us at the time. For example, we had expressed the need for the Turkish Trade Law to go into harmonisation between the penal provisions and the penal provisions, especially with the provisions of the Tax Code, which may not be a proper balance between the punishment and the purpose that is intended to be achieved. At that time, the business world gave unconditional support to the bill, while our assessment, unfortunately, was lost in its unconditional support. And it will appear today that there is a need for a review of the provisions of punishment, and a re-organization. I'm going to put that as our first diagnosis. Our second assessment is that 96 per cent of Turkey's economy is made up of 97 per cent of COBI, and much of the business in the economy consists of SMEs. KOBI is a family company. A law this important can be difficult to adapt the SMEs quickly. In this regard, the state, particularly the Ministry of Industry and Trade, must take on a task. In particular, SMEs need support for the website. Therefore, this support should be given to the KOBI. Again, it is useful to redesign relevant substances by reviewing them once again, as certain information on the website may be part of a commercial secret. The 88th article, brought in on account of the standards of accounting, and the 1st Article of the law, are a number of reciprocalities and discrepancies. Again, it is useful to review them. Control is very important. The Turkish Trade Law -- the new law -- was very important. This is indeed an important and good approach. However, this audit should not lead to a major cost increase in operations. In this regard, it is wise to review them once more. Turkish Trade Law's 552 Τth article, which regulates the IPO, is a problematic substance. Normally, the IPO is organised in Article 2499 of Capital Market Law. However, if you look at Article 559 of the Turkish Trade Law, it will be seen that other companies besides an anonymous company are able to make their capital public. That's not the intention, but this intention has not been reflected in the bill, or rather, in the law. If the law goes out that way, or, in fact, if it goes into effect, there will be a great deal of confusion in the IPO. The 552 is also required to be re-opened and evaluated on this occasion. My time ends here. On this occasion, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0017par0316	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Three congressmen have a short word request. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0018par0322	Thank you, Mayor. Dear MPs, on April 24, 1972, the death sentences of Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan have been re-approved in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I condemn those who raised their hand against the confirmation of the death sentence that day. My respects to you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0019par0325	Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0020par0327	Thank you, Mr. President. We ask that the 92nd anniversary of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, which the Turkish nation has decided to decide its own destiny, bring blessings to the great Turkish nation. On this occasion, I would like to stress once again that national sovereignty, sovereignty and freedom are high values that are not subject to concessions and discounts. On the other hand, it is a fact that national sovereignty is above all sovereignty on earth, and in democracies the sovereignty of the nation is used by lawmakers. The national sovereignty is not a conditioned, special authority of the courts or the European Union, but the national sovereignty of the Turkish nation is unconditional. It is contrary to the core of national sovereignty that today's National Day of Sovereignty is being held by our Istanbul MP, Engin Alan. And some of the MPs belonging to other opposition parties. It is imperative that members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Speaker of Parliament continue their effective efforts until the arrest parliamentary issue is over.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0021par0332	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0022par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. As attacks on health workers multiply every day, a last doctor friend of ours has been murdered, the whole of Turkey has been condemned with hatred, walks, layoffs. However, the attacks have not ended, new reports of attacks are coming from all over the country. I'd like to say that I am pleased to announce that a parliamentary MP under parliament condemns the attack on our colleague's doctorate, and that our motion for parliamentary investigation, which has been rejected by AKP's votes, has been put on the agenda as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0023par0339	Thank you. Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/161) I respectfully submit that my main Law Proposal (2/161) should be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37. Offered by İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0024par0352	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to direct the agenda of our Underlaws proposal for changes in some Laws and Earthquake Aftime in Van-Ericish and Around (2/161). I salute you all. The earthquakes that occurred in Van and Ercish, on October 23rd and November 9, 2011, caused severe traumas and injuries to be forgotten in one of East Anatolia's favorite provinces. More than 600 of our citizens lost their lives; more than 4,000 of our citizens were seriously injured; 2,262 buildings were completely destroyed; about 1,500 tradesmen shut down; and nearly 300,000 of Van and Ercish emigrated. In the next period, the trauma with the government's scandalous practices deepened. Our people had to spend the heavy winter conditions in tents, the containers were delayed, inadequate, and our people experienced great difficulties. Our women have suffered great hardship, lost their children, and have been burdened with great suffering. From the children to the elders, everyone was left with a lifelong trauma. The education and education system in the region became completely ineffective and the results came out, and Van was one of the last provinces in the YGS test released the other day. The shopkeeper drew the flag of bankruptcy. Rents have doubled in homes that seem undamaged. Thousands of people had to emigrate because they couldn't find a solid home to live in. Just yesterday, during the April 23rd celebrations, the governor of Van spoke to the press and said, "Spring came and our troubles were reduced." The governor's statement has also shown that the AKP's government has transferred its troubles to the turning of the land and to the terms of whatever God has given it? Does it have to be spring or spring all the time in Van? In his speech in Ercish, Prime Minister promised that he would not leave the Vans alone with the winter cold, but like all the promises for Van, it was nothing more than a hollow promise. I don't want to repeat Mr. Secretary of Urbanism's, Home Secretary's, Deputy Prime Minister's blunders here, but these words have left deep marks on the Vans' head and world, and they haven't yet passed deep marks. The AKP government couldn't even tolerate human reactions in Van. The government didn't hear the voice of the vans, but all our citizens heard it in Turkey. Everyone ran to help, but the AKP government was unable to pass a collective law and overcome the problem. Dear friends, on 18 November 2011, as Republican People's Party MP, we proposed a law to Parliament. The proposal for this law aims to heal the wounds of the earthquake on every issue: the wounds of workers, civil servants, tradesmen, farmers, damaged dwellings, but what did you do? You didn't even declare the van a disaster zone. You did not do so by targeting the municipality in Van. If this earthquake were anywhere else in Turkey, as the Vans call it, would you behave like this? All the Vans are still asking that question. Unfortunately, the earthquake was discriminated against. The Prime Minister discriminated on this stand and on other platforms, and declared it a disaster zone, and said, "We're going to let the aid flow to the local municipality." And that was in the minds of the Vans and everyone in the region. Now, we have a design. You're particularly trying to get this job done with the existing legislation so that it doesn't have that right to our people and the arbitrary practices continue in Van. But if this bill is put on the agenda and accepted, your pleasure will be over. Our citizens in the van will claim the damage caused by the earthquake in Van. They will demand it as a right from you and the state. No one's got a right to get in the way of that. Therefore, the next vote will also be a measure of whether this Assembly, especially AKP MPs, is discriminated against. We'll show your hand signals in Van. We'll show them all over Turkey. We'll show them everywhere. We will show all over Turkey that you do not want Van Nah to be a disaster zone, that Van ▪'s wounds are not meant to be covered by a law. So let's not discriminate over Van, let's put this bill on the agenda. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0025par0370	Thank you. Hope Oran, Istanbul MP, please.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0026par0373	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute our House. Yes, today's agenda is Van. Actually, Van should be on our agenda, and we shouldn't forget Van. What I'd like to bring up in particular is a six-month supply of electric bills to the earthquake victims. Look, last week we were at the Van. From seven to seventy, all the inhabitants of the tradesmen rebelled in Van. All the people received six months' electricity bills. My fellow lawmakers, let's put ourselves in their shoes for a moment: close your eyes, imagine for a moment that you've left the house, right now there's an earthquake, you've come home, your house is destroyed, your businesses are closed, your family is lost, your neighbors are moving out of town. One out of three people have emigrated in Van. Think about this view for a moment. It's a lonely town with a million dollars in it. Just think about it for a second. Imagine for a moment that you're going through this. Look, for six months, no one's had a problem with our Van people, and even their basic needs, such as food, water, cleaning, housing, have been extremely difficult. For six months, our Van people only used electricity; they used it to warm up, they used it for shelter, they used it for lighting, they used it for cooking, they shared it in the form of a figure. Now, we stop, all of a sudden, six months later, we give them a total electric bill. Is that even possible? Look, the shopkeeper came separately... and I went, and looked at the tradesman at the Cheesemakers' Market. The electricity bill for the shop: this place of work has been closed for six months. Right now, we've sent the guy a six-month total electric bill. I went to a broken home again. Look, here's a six-month-old ball, so let's just forget about lighting the lights, we can't go inside the house. There's already been a destruction warrant for the house. Now, what understanding, what thinking? My fellow lawmakers, look, the Vans, our Vans, have been vomiting blood for six months, drinking cranberry syrup, waiting patiently. There have been many problems, so there have been discrepancies between the local government and the government; there have been irregularities among ministers; there have been misdirections and patience, but they have always waited with hope, waiting for a solution. Today, 30 per cent of Van is migrating. As I was saying earlier, Van is now a deserted town. Now, when the government is supposed to heal these wounds here, when it's supposed to give people love, when it's supposed to give them hope, is it normal, my dear friends, to order them to pay the six-month electric bill as punishment? My fellow lawmakers, in particular, I address my fellow lawmakers from the ruling party, to the government, to the Prime Minister: Is this a move? Is that what we call our citizens? Look, we say we grow up, we have a strong economy, we have a strong Turkey. How can we watch this strong economy, powerful Turkey, where citizens become like this? We look as the Republican People's Party, we don't use certain things in politics: we don't use beliefs in politics, we don't use ethnic identities in politics, we don't use earthquakes, we don't use extraordinary disasters in politics, we don't use economic crisis in politics. Look, we've always held out our hands, a lot of our friends have offered us the law on this, and I've also offered a lot of laws. For example, the new incentive package has been announced. Here, Mr. Prime Minister, he knows the work we've done in the past about the incentive package. Mr. Zafer, I have expressed to him one-on-one, that is, we have taken him to the 6th precinct. What do you mean, 6? One out of 15 cities. We said, "Let there be a sectoral incentive for animalism, let this place be scorched with its own oil." Unfortunately, it was ignored. Now, this is extremely important. And today we have offered a new law on canceling these six-month-old electricity bills, and with Mr. Godkulu's bill of law, we will really be watching from here with the Turkish people, especially with the consciences of the ruling lawmakers and their will to be held shortly after the vote. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0027par0382	Thank you, Mr. Oran. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0028par0384	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0027par0385	All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Vural, please. I'm sorry, it's as if he wanted it in general.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0028par0387	No, it's okay.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0027par0388	Did you give up?
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0028par0389	It was relevant, in that way...
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0027par0390	You can go back into the system if you want.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0028par0391	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0027par0392	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0028par0395	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, well, the Van earthquake actually destroyed life. In this regard, the National Movement Party Group, lawmakers, and Vanlar have significant complaints about the electricity bills. Come on, let's all work this out together. So I'd like to express that we've called on the government to take office if there's anything to be done with an administrative arrangement after this. Vans lost their lives, their homes under the earthquake, but I don't think they should be tortured after the earthquake. I wanted a promise to share it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0029par0398	Thank you. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the negotiations of Manisa MP Uğur Aydemir and 21 MPs, who are ranked in the 3rd place of the 3rd place of Manisa MP Uğur Aydemir and 21 MPs; President Hüseyin Şahin and 10 MPs; Şanlıurfa MP Abdulkerim Gök and Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun; Isparta MP Sıyya Sadi Bilgiç and 8 MPs' Report of the Plan and Budget Report. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 223 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on top of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0030par0418	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions on the generality of Law Proposal 223, which is currently in session. On this occasion, I salute you all. We're discussing a proposal from the law, which includes unrelated issues. The only common aspect of the arrangements is the appearance of individual arrangements. This law proposal appears to be an arrangement designed to reassign certain individuals to certain tasks, to free certain individuals from the charge of assault. Such netative issues are often referred to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey through the proposal of law. Instead of drafting and sending these issues, the government brings them up by bidding on lawmakers. While many law proposals made by lawmakers from opposition parties have been held on commissions, it is clear that the AKP government or ministers have requested and directed these law proposals to be immediately discussed by AKP lawmakers. The main law proposals (2/475), (2/476), (2/482), (2/472), and (2/482), which are based on the same issues and statements, have been handed down by AKP lawmakers in a row and are immediately taken on the agenda of the Commission, based on the main Law Proposal (2/476). During the Commission talks on this proposal, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, on the criticism that this arrangement was brought up without his knowledge, not without my knowledge, it was a different proposal, and we're not even interviewing him right now. It's within my knowledge, and it's an offer that we've always made with friends, line by line. It's in my knowledge. He made a statement. Then you have to ask Mr. Babacan: If you've made the materials line by line together, why didn't you make this arrangement a bill? Why didn't you make a healthier arrangement by taking the opinion of relevant institutions and organizations and NGOs? Are there ministers in the Council of Ministers who prevent you from signing these matters? This also points to a discrepancy within the AKP's government, indicating that issues which were not adopted as a bill in order to avoid opposition or responsibility have been moved to parliament's agenda through a proposal of law. With this proposal, some changes are made in the Banking Law, allowing Banking Organization and Savings Insurance Fund chairman and members to be reassigned from six to five years to one. The arrangement, which determines the mandate of the president and members of these institutions as six years and predicts that they cannot be reassigned, was also ruled by Law No.19/10/2005 during the AKP period and by Law 5411. With this offer, it is now clear that the AKP government has changed its views. A convincing reason for this change has not been set on the basis of effective execution of the ministry. (x) 223 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. On the other hand, the claim is public record that this arrangement is being made so that a citizen whose mandate has recently been extended and known for his proximity to the Prime Minister can be reassigned. This claim is not denied by the government in specific and clear terms. This makes it clear that the arrangement is a personal arrangement, and how clear these institutions have been made to political interference. The independence of these institutions requires that you do not depend on others to carry out activities such as decisions, consultations, information and investigations. The efficiency of institutions depends on the establishment of the necessary legal tools. A contrary situation could weaken control against interference from both political and supervised organisations. On the other hand, the BDK and the TMSF chairman and members of the board have been suspended from one year to two years before any payment they receive by the institution until they start a job. It is also required that the law be applied to those whose term of office expires before the deadline and not to those who have been paid a year earlier. It is absolutely unacceptable that any payments that are being paid by those who have ended their mission will continue to be paid for two years, and that will include those whose mission has recently ended. The state's institutions are not the AKP's farm. On the other hand, the fact that this arrangement does not include those who have served in earlier years, that there is no such practice in rival institutions, such as the EPDK, also undermines the principles of equality. This is a new example of AKP's philanthropist, unjust and segregating practices. Dear lawmakers, the bill extends to 2 July 2012, in implementing the ruling on the removal of concessions under Article 401 of Turkish Trade Law No. 6762. A scandal is under way and the provisions of Article 401 of Law 6762 will be neutralized. Because, with an evil thought, the execution of a law is left to the date after the law was lifted. The new Trade Law, January 13, 2011 and 6102, is in effect on 1 July 2012, and Law 6762 is also in effect. Thus, the regulation of the 401st article, on the basis of the public benefit, is inadmissible. This arrangement clearly reveals its purpose to benefit someone. As a result of investigations conducted by the Ministry of Industry and Trade under its previous name, the holding company, founded by tens of thousands of beet farmers and peasants, filed a criminal complaint against the third person's concession and the judicial phase continues. The arrangement with this proposal will negatively affect the process, leaving concessions in third parties. During talks on the commission, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan has agreed with our criticism of the clause and made the following statement: let's move this clause, if the Commission sees fit. In the meantime, let's bring together our friends from the Ministry of Customs and Trade, from the SPK, to work, to create a common formula, to create a formula that won't touch public companies, but will solve this problem. Let's go over it with a motion at the General Assembly. If the study grows, if it doesn't, a separate proposal or a bill will be here soon, but I see a lot of use in finding a solution as soon as possible. Basically, the work shouldn't take an hour. After all, removing the negative impact of this substance on public companies does not require long work. I don't know if there's any study on it, any motions on the matter, to be honest. Mr. Vice Prime Minister has promised we'll see if he fulfills his promise, as the matter is discussed. As a result, we will see clearly whether the AKP government will protect the rights of tens of thousands of beet farmers or allow one of their rights to be pursued. Dear lawmakers, again, the law proposal authorises the Council of Ministers on the privatisation of farmers who have been damaged because of disasters and on the programme of the Turkish Sugar Factory Incorporated Company to postpone or be promised their debt. In the commission talks, due to heavy winter conditions and earthquakes, it has been announced that in the factories of Ağrım, Erzurum, Mush and Ercish, a total of 1,137 farmers could not remove the beets from the field and deliver them to the factories, so that they could not close an advance of $4,10,000, which had been paid to them, they were asked to make it easy by offering. As the National Movement Party, we support the regulation of this clause. The beet farmer is going through a really tough time. The AKP has dropped more and more, as it has not lifted its beet quotas. Farmers are sentenced to quota traders. While beet sugar production is wanted to be destroyed by privatisation, the front of starch-based sugar is opened. While many countries in the world bring limitations, the quota of starch-based sugar is persistently increased in our country. A beet farmer shouldn't be sacrificed to a starch-based candy lobby. One of the essentials of our national economy is that the sale of our sugar factories today, which are a guarantee of our country's bright tomorrows, at the cost of close to $3 billion -- the engine of Turkish agriculture and industry -- has deeply hurt millions of citizens who are eating bread from the industry. As the National Movement Party, we see the need for privatisation in sugar factories, which aims at the continuity of employment, production and investment, not for rant purposes. Sugar factories should be primarily intended to be sold to beets producers, workers, irrigation troops, transport sectors, agricultural chambers, local trades and public formations. Dear lawmakers, our farmers who have been subjected to disaster today in Konya and Karaman are awaiting the government's help to compensate for their losses. There have been extensive damage in fruit trees and crops due to heavy snowfalls and melting in the districts of Konya, Taşkent, Derebucak, Bozır, Baharlık, Yalihük, Sejdişehir, Sarıveli, Basheya, Ermenek, and Karaman. The branches of the cherry and walnut trees, especially under the snow, have been broken to 90 percent, and many have been destroyed by rodents. The risks that caused this disaster are not covered by agricultural insurance. In this respect, the losses of the cherry and walnut producers of the Conium and Karaman (Karaman) must be met by the government by making necessary damage assessments. The damage to underwater plantations must also be compensated. Again, due to the recent violent wind and sandstorm, the fields have been covered with sand, with beet, barley, almost all of its fields removed from the fields, causing great damage in the fields, especially in the districts of Jahanbeyli, Altınekin, Kulu and Yunak. Due to the severe wind and sandstorm, the victims of the host farmers must be compensated by the government for their damage assessments. I urge the AKP's government to show the necessary sensitivity in this matter and to do necessary assistance and to repair these heavy damage to our farmers who are already trying to continue their work in a difficult situation. On the other hand, our citizens, who are also living off livestock in Iconia, complain about not being able to give their animals a smack shot, and are anxiously seeking a cure. This year, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism found out that only 10,000 smack vaccines were sent to Iconium, and that they were not required to buy them, and that they were not met. The AKP government, which operates under a short-sighted government, has left our producer with his fate. Today our manufacturer's concerns have increased greatly, due to the detection of the cases of hijab disease in Konya. I call on the AKP government to take the necessary measures against the hilt disease and to cover the damage of the manufacturers. Dear lawmakers, millions of our people working in agriculture, which is about a third of the total population of our country, are literally clamped down by banks. In 2009, agricultural loans from banks of 14.9 billion euros increased by 52.5 per cent in 2010 to 22.8 billion dollars, and in 2011 to $30.9 billion, up by 35.6 per cent. Our farmers, who have been burdened with a burden they can't bear in recent years, have been in a very difficult position because of the inscrutable and unacceptable wrong practices of the AKP Authority. Our farmers, trapped in debt and unable to pay their debts, are also overwhelmed by heavy entry costs on the other hand. While the farmer's money was really receding, high rates of agricultural input, including diesel, fertilizer, energy, medicine, and seed, made it difficult for farmers to produce. Farmers are unable to use sufficient input due to price increases in input costs, which negatively affects efficiency. The AKP government does not care about the situation of the farmer or Turkish agriculture. As a result, the AKP government ignored farmers in the recently announced new incentive system. The AKP government, which does not go to any reductions in high-profile taxes, such as fertilizer, diesel, electricity, is able to make large reductions in taxes and bonuses when it comes to bosses. The measures to solve agriculture's structural problems, reduce the burden of agricultural input, and resuscitate the agricultural sector must be taken as soon as possible. I wish that the law offer would be a blessing, with respect.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0031par0443	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. Now, Aydın Ayadın, MP for the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0032par0447	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the esteemed MPs, Banking Control and Editing Board 223 rows, the TMSF president and the bag bill reorganizing the mandates of members. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Today, here, again and again, we're dealing with a brand-new AKP classic. I'm not surprised anymore, but I also want to point out that I don't understand. Because our AKP MP friends, coincidentally, offer a lot of laws in the same days, including the same provisions. These law proposals need a lot of explanations, both in style and content. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to begin the procedure. During the AKP period, a new tradition has been established recently. Here's the thing: The Central Vadeli Program, published in the budget process of 5018, which, for example, was published months later, instead of May, was announced in October -- which is completely contrary to the lawmaking technique, which is contrary to the law-making technique, which may have been urgent and mandatory in this way -- the bag that had to be exceptional -- began to bring the law enforcement practices into the context of Turkey's Grand Assembly, which was a freak, like Law No. 6111, which was not sufficient, as a freak. Thus, orders are created without knowledge, without information or ideas, without the knowledge of the ministers and public institutions to give opinions about the bill. You might say: "Does not every MP have the right to make an offer of law?" Of course there are, but for some reason, law proposals made by AKP MPs are immediately discussed and legalized in the commissions and the General Assembly, but opposition proposals are waiting to surface on the commission's shelves. Moreover, the ruling lawmakers are unaware of the content of their so-called law proposals. Is the goal here to disable the Council of Ministers or the public enterprises? But it seems that the AKP government is confused, not having a plan or vision. I did, I did, I did, the lawless practice of the AKP (AKP) who wiped out the established order and regulations of the Turkish public administration. There is no such antidemocratic practice, not even in the so-called countries ruled by the kingdom. Turkey unfortunately doesn't deserve such an app. I'm sure a lot of AKP members, especially Mr. Secretary of Parliament, are uncomfortable with such practices and can't bear it. However, neither the Minister nor the valued lawmakers can afford to change the situation. That's what they call a future democracy. The unified law proposals we're meeting are the last examples of that. You know, by creating an event in education -- its success -- has been officially registered in the AKP government's development plan -- the arrangement that eliminates eight years of basic education was the law proposal of AKP chiefs. Moreover, Article 22 of the proposal is a provision that envisions the reassignment of the Banking Editing and Control Board and TMSF presidents and members, which are not closely or remotely related to education. And even more interestingly, even the Minister, whose institutions are connected, didn't know about it. It is an insult to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that the provision for the mandates of the presidents of the BDDK and TMSF, which are not related to education, is even included in the proposal of the law 4+4+4+4. The proposal opened the way for the reassignment of the president and members of the institutions. For, according to the current provisions, the mandates of the president and members of the institutions are limited to six years, and the president and members whose term of office expires cannot be reassigned. However, according to Bank Law No. 4389 issued during the 57th Government, BDDK and members of the TMSF, which had already expired, could be reassigned, but the AKP government has limited the mandates of presidents and members by ending its Law on Banking Number 5411 in 2005. Now the same AKP is disrupting what it has done and bringing it back to its former state. If that's what you did with the law in 2005, why are you trying to get it back the way it was? In fact, it's a shame you turned the law and country into a sabbatical. Deputy AKP Group President, while offering such an offer in the proposal of the educational law on the mandate of this institution's president and members, which has nothing to do with it, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, whom BDDK and TMSF have been committed to, I am not aware of the proposed law on the matter. It's not a government thing, obviously. Let's ask the friends, see what it is, and what purpose it has to say. Yes, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, the party's Deputy Director of the Group, offers an important arrangement, which Mr. Babacan, who has been head of these institutions and the economy for ten years, has no idea. It's like a coalition government. Anyone who doesn't know the country will think it's the coalition government. In fact, such a lack of seriousness can only occur in AKP government implementation. But according to media reports and information that leaked into the lobby, it seems that there are different goals and accounts at the bottom of this situation. While Mr. Babacan wants to transfer one of the current members instead of Şakir Ercan Gul, who has been relieved of his duties, it seems Mr. Canikli wants to open the way for the current President, such as himself, the current finance inspector, Shakir Ercan Gul, to be appointed. The interesting thing is that TMSF is a process in which the president is assigned to financial inspectors and that the person Mr Babacan wants is not an inspector. The country's administration, especially economic management, does not lift the friendly sergeant relations of small interests, occupational issues; it requires seriousness, integrity, competency, and firm co-direction. What else is there to do with this behavior other than harming those high-profile institutions, our country? Especially now that it's become clear to us how much that pink painting in the economy is a dream, and there's going to be a lot of trouble since 2012, and this is not the time or place for a conflict of interest. Now, here's to the basics. See, the mandate of Banking Editor-in-Chief, Tevfik Bilgin. On 11 April, 1 membership has been empty for a long time. TMSF President Shakir Ercan Gul and 1 member's mandate ended as of February 28th. However, Mr. Gul, the head of the TMSF, even though his term of duty was over, did not leave his room, but goes to Kuruma every day. So, what do you think the government's doing? He's waiting and he's not making these appointments. Because Shakir Ercan Gul is a rare Indian cloth! Well, what do you think he's waiting for, government? He expects a special law to be passed so that they can reassign Shakir Ercan Gül to the head of the TMSF. What I don't understand is, does the AKP Power have any bureaucrats capable of being TMSF President, or is Shakir Ercan Gul really a rare Indian fabric? What a beautiful country! Today, the president and member of the TMSF are waiting for the appointment. The 7-member Council of the Fund can meet with at least 5 members at this institution, which, according to law, is required to meet at least once a week, when 1 member of the TMSF is ill, the Council is unable to meet. Unfortunately, the same is true of the Banking Organization and the Control Agency, and there are still only five members. Is that your government seriousness? Is this how you respect institutions and countries, how you feel about economics? In fact, I did it, I did it, with the decrees of the law he issued. It's not surprising that the AKP was able to give up some of those deputy ministers a position such as the deputy minister's office, a bureaucratic position that did not take its basis from the Constitution to a more beautiful country and still have not been able to throw away some of those deputy ministers. Unsurprisingly, this is a dramatic situation for the country's administration. Again, a motion issued during the talks of the law proposal allows the president of the Banking Editor-in-Chief and the Savings Insurance Fund, which ended their term, to receive wages as if the President and members were on duty for two years. The reason is that former members should not be victimized if they are unemployed. This arrangement is a personal arrangement that violates the principle of equality of the Constitution. You're only going to give 2 per cent increase to officers who have been waiting for years, and that's from the year 2013. You're going to say that. But when it comes to fellow bureaucrats, even if they sit at home, you're going to continue to pay 15,000 pounds of Turkish lira as if they were on duty. Moreover, you will receive these salaries from tax cuts from workers, civil servants and pensioners who are struggling to make a living. That is indeed a sin and a sin. I don't see how you can afford that. And with this app, you bring unrecognizable financial rights to other autonomous institutions. Are other autonomous heads bald? Why the privilege? If only you would answer me properly, so that we could understand. Also, it should not be forgotten that these highly qualified and experienced people are paid a high salary for two years because they fear they may be unemployed outside the sector, while unemployment allowance for employees from their jobs in our country is limited to a maximum of ten months. Even if the presidents of this institution live in their homes, they will continue to receive a salary of 15,000 lira per month for two years. Again, the law proposal provides ease for beets farmers in Ağrım, Erzurum, Muş and Erciş, who are unable to cover an advance of $4m Turkish lira paid to them due to heavy winter conditions and earthquakes. The Council of Ministers has been authorized to delay or provide the loans of our farmers, the privatisation of farmers, and the loans they owe to the Turkish Sugar Factory Corporation in their programmes. We welcome this arrangement. I want to make it very clear that every step towards our struggling farmers will always have the support needed from the Republican People's Party. Because the farmer is not only a victim of climate conditions, he is essentially a victim of AKP power. The AKP is in a position that can pay the farmer's debt, produce it at the level he wants for his country, and assess what he's producing, rather than a deadline for the farmer who can't pay his debt after the implementation of his administration. It's not about making it easier for our farmer, it's about getting out of the way of our farmer, it's about not crushing them any more. As long as the AKP doesn't cast a shadow, our farmer will be sufficient for himself and our country, and that should be known. See, the strategic importance of agriculture in the world is increasing every year. The most significant indicator of this situation is that the world's prices of agriculture and food have been constantly increasing in recent times. The agricultural sector, which is so important to the world, is also a vital area for our country. Our population, which is 74 million, is estimated to be around 83 million in 2023. As a country with a growing population of 30 million and growing populations in the last 30 years, Turkey's primary goal in agriculture, food and animalism policies is to provide enough food for its population, to increase its production by using environmental and progressive techniques, and to support producers in the agricultural field scientifically and systematically. The agricultural sector is an extremely important sector for our country, economically, socially and financially, but unfortunately our farmer, our agriculture, has been the victim of the AKP. The farmer was almost destroyed during the AKP ruling period. In 2002, the GDP of agricultural production was 10.3 per cent of Turkey's illegal domestic product, while in 2009 it was reduced to 8.3 per cent, 7.8 per cent in 2010. The agricultural sector is the second largest after spending social security on the size of transfer spending from the budget. The agricultural sector also holds an important position in the field of employment. The total employment share of the agricultural population is 1.6 per cent in the United States, 2.3 per cent in the G7 countries, 3.6 per cent in the eurozone and 5.1% in the OECD countries, while 1 per cent of our country's population, 25 per cent, operates in agriculture. It is easily understood that the agricultural sector is a very important sector for our country. However, once again, the importance of the agricultural sector is not understood enough, and agriculture is virtually ignored by the AKP Powers, given whether policies are in harmony with the importance of this area. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the bag bill we're talking about has changed some laws, some of which have been changed in the decisions issued by some law enforcement, and there has been a amendment in Act 660. If you're going to make a change in Code 660, why don't you bring that decree, and we won't see the original of the Law in this Parliament, but we're discussing some changes in the Code of Law? It's extremely important. It violates the basic principles of the Constitution. The AKP has recently been trying to rule this country by shutting down Turkey's Grand National Assembly and by law enforcement decrees. This country is not a country to be ruled by law enforcement decrees. Please bring the laws of law enforcement, laws on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we will pass those laws here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0033par0468	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Justice Kurt, Hakkari MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0034par0472	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, as this bag evaluates the proposal of the law, first of all, where did the government or the government get the need to double-stitch this bill, where did this need come from, we need to focus on it. While we were discussing this bag of legislation in the Commission, the Minister's authority was extended until July 2nd, under the jurisdiction of the law. So there was no need to arrange it. As of July 1st, the New Turkish Trade Law is becoming more stable, and the changes that were made here would have been normal from then on, but there are other reasons why such a special legal arrangement was brought to the person during this period. One of the main reasons is that the economy is not getting better in Turkey, and it's not going well. The government, economic bureaucracy, has so far camouflaged the bad economy in some way, has been able to hide the truth from the public, but gradually things have become so difficult to fit into the sack. Now, the painting can't be hidden. By tampering with numbers, playing with statistics, the dust pink table began to turn upside down; the facts gradually became known to the public. At this point, the government began to observe the escape of hot money from the outside, which kept it alive, which was a means of aliveness in the market. The National Bank's 2011 data states that in 2011, there was $12.6 billion in money in Turkey's market, which had no origins, no origins. This is the Central Bank's identification. Where this money comes from, how this money gets into the Turkish market, what its function is, the government actually knows very well. The market cycle, which has long been trying to be kept alive by hot cash flow, is no longer functioning. In particular, the government had to intervene here in the face of the apparent insecurity in the financial sector. In fact, this arrangement, yeah, it's sort of personal, friendly buddy arrangement, it's all true. When we look through a window, such an assessment is also possible, but this arrangement is a wink of international capital in particular: Aman ha, don't back down from the Turkish market, we are stabilising the management of the financial sector. We've made a mistake in the past period, we've made an arrangement to cause instability, and now we're going back to putting the arrangements of Mr. Dervis back in the system. For a long time, our government has, on every occasion, become a model country in the world to manage the economic crisis, especially the Prime Minister, economy management. Everyone tells us: "Come, tell us about your experiences, and how you are saved, and so are we. " They say, "Let us be saved. " They tell us that you have no debt to the IMF. Look, I don't want to use any other words, but it's simply asparagasic information, it's not accurate information. Yes, debt to the IMF has been reduced, but please share the number with the public: all public investments in Turkey during the AKP administrations, especially in the energy and transport sector, were made by debt to international funds. 35% of these fund companies -- 35 percent of this debt -- are American funding companies, around 22% of Western European companies, around 7 per cent Far Eastern capital, 7 per cent Middle East capital, or Arab capital. So today, whatever there are in this country, whatever double routes there are, whatever activities in the field of energy are, is all debt, and the government is hiding that debt from the public. Literally Turkey's external debt, unfortunately, is not disclosed. We don't know how much we owe to which fund company. Since you think you've brought up such a law proposal in search of stability in the financial sector, then please explain our dependence on international financial sectors. How much do we owe who? This is where you have to explain how much this country owes to fund companies. It's a personal arrangement. I don't want to mention names, but what difference does it make if someone replaces you? In fact, we're not after him very much, but the claim is serious: a person who has not been in office for fifty-six days is actually running an institution in an actual situation, and if the government ignores it, ignores it, ignores such a problem, and the allegations expressed just now from this platform are serious thoughts. The government has not responded convincingly to these allegations in the Commission or parliament so far. A dispute between the AKP Deputy Leader and the Minister is a serious problem if the conflict over the person or the individuals has reached the top of an institution in which we say this country is independent. Since then, we say that the dust pink painting drawn in the economy is unrealistic and troubling, and that the government must give up existing practices and take realistic measures. Yes, the lack of stability in the management of institutions in Turkey causes serious problems for all of us, harms all of us, harms the country. It is necessary not to expect the House to be indifferent to this, but the House must not be indifferent to it. I hope Mr. Secretary will answer these claims when he speaks here today. He can clearly say: "Yes, the President is a very valuable man, a skilled man, we want to continue his mission, we want to continue it. " We personally have no objection to that, but he should put it here openly. There's no reason to go around saying things or hiding things from the public. Share it clearly, and say, "That's the reason. For this reason, yes, this person is the best of the staff that we have, and we think about it as a person who's going to inspire confidence in international financial institutions, in the financial sector. You're the government, you can save that kind of money, but if you play with the management of two independent institutions, you've lost the will of independence. Especially with the person in charge of these institutions, the claim that there are contradictions and conflicts between you, the government, is that your arrangement there will not serve stability, it will increase instability. The issue of the privileged stock is in this law proposal. With one share, the majority must abandon the habit of dictating on the stock. See, the 401st article, the 401st Article of the Turkish Trade Law, clearly states who will have a privileged share, and then he says: "Except the privileges that can be established in favour of the community's useful associations and foundations," he says. By what criteria do you set these useful associations and foundations, please share with us, what is the criteria? The Lighthouse was a useful association here for years. If he has a privileged stake in an institution and he has the right to rule over it, how do you condone it? And here, you're just gonna have to let it go, you're gonna have to make a concession. The criterion should not be this: the association and the foundations near us are useful associations and foundations. If you act on this criteria, you will make such a troubling law, and bring such a troubled law before the assembly. For example, the arrangement for sugar beets, sugar beets producers... not all sugar beets producers are in that law, some sugar beets producers associated with public factories. The sugar beets manufacturer who sold to the private sector are not in it. Even here, a double standard has been applied. The sugar beets manufacturer who produced the private sector didn't force himself willingly, and you needed the sugar beets maker in the private sector because of the quota bullying you used to take over from previous governments. If that beets maker is a victim today, you can't punish him twice. With your bill of law, you've divided the sugar beets manufacturer into two pieces, let alone look at other pencils in the agricultural sector. There's no explanation, there's no explanation, there's no acceptable side to this injustice. You should at least review the arrangement for the sugar beets. With your agricultural policies, with your animal policy, you've made this country dependent on green onions. In this land with the wheat barn, we are now able to buy wheat from the outside. That raw material is processed and sold out of necessity. Dear friends, I will only share with you the animal potential of a province. Perhaps there'll be some information from your point of view, Mr. Secretary. Hakkari (Hakkari) has 10 million minors in animal potential, 3 million in cattle potential. I know. How many small animals are there now in Hakkari? You know, it's the official number of your administration. Three hundred and three hundred thousand small animals -- so not one out of twenty -- and there are 36 thousand cattle. In this painting, if you are satisfied with agricultural policies, if things work out well, it works out. If you say, "You feed more imported meat in this country, you feed it, you build more pig farms. There is no such thing. Not one, not one. Dear friends... SEEDA, ACTIVITY AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) speak on purpose.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0035par0492	Mr. Secretary, please don't make promises.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0034par0493	Dear friends, Mr. Secretary doesn't know what's being discussed here because he has entered the House from outside. And the door's like, "Let's talk about it," and then it's booming. These matters are not a matter of small talk. Yeah, I just told you, you've made this country look like you need green onions and you need nana. The economy isn't getting better. With this legal arrangement, yes, you're trying to wink at international financial institutions, and, oh, don't leave the country, and we're all rosebuds. You're trying to say that, but I'm afraid if you do this, if you turn your back on reality, it won't save you. At this point, we don't want the government's failure, we don't want it, we don't want it, not ever, not in economic politics. It's the shadow that desires the failure of the government, but these policies lead the country to disaster. Open up, look, our country's data, all the economic data, it's one-on-one with Greece. The previous conservative government, like you, hid the data, hid the painting from the public, the crisis broke out in Greece from the moment the power changed. We're living in the same painting. We're not supposed to do any more damage to this country by turning our backs on the truth, and you have no right to be in power. Indeed, it is Our duty to warn you. If you put together all of what we've just said, you have a responsibility to come out and share with the public what is Turkey's true painting, especially in the crisis in which the financial sector is being dragged one step at a time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You have to explain how much we owe international funding companies. When you put it all together, when you put this painting together, we think that these palliative solution proposals are unrealistic, not dissolving. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0036par0501	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Now, Abdullah Levent Tüzel, the Istanbul MP who asked for a word on his behalf. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0037par0504	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Once again, we face an arrangement based on the needs of the AKP government, and this is not the first time. Unfortunately, once again, there is talk of an extension of our country, our country, our people's real issues, the problems of our people, but a government-based institution's administration. Of course, it's not possible to defend it, but one of the other articles of the law, especially about privatisation -- our congressman who just spoke -- is also referring to the fact that farmers' debt to the sugar factory under privatisation. So there seems to be an arrangement here again to protect the farmer, but in fact, many of our country's industrial companies, many state businesses, as privatized, privatized sugar factories, especially sugar producers, farmers, those factory workers, who work in that area, who work in some way, their lives, their futures are at risk. It's obvious that privatisations have created new unemployment, not unemployment, and our country has destroyed its agriculture, destroying its many accumulated values, going after large capital groups, international firms. If a farmer is sought to protect himself, he must first give up privatisation, so this is not the way to protect the victim of disaster. But the AKP government, as always, presents a total opportunity policy, a total win-win policy, in this legislation, which shoots a few birds with one stone. The main issues of our country must be discussed. I mean, we're looking, is the government up to something like this? No. At his group meeting today, again, once again, do not crush the main opposition, which is especially -- as it's always been done -- through our people's beliefs, through religious policy, through abuse. In the history of the Republic, mosques, wells, fountains have been sold, barns have been made; these are on record. By presenting documents of this, the Prime Minister wants to squeeze the main opposition from here and draw it into such a political arena, which is not the issue of our country. Look, recently, you know, a 2/B Act has been passed from Parliament. But the main thing is, it's probably not the 2/B Act, but we really need to have a serious discussion about something we can call 3/B. What is this 3/B? First it's peace, first it's feeding, first it's shelter. So these are the specific demands of 75 million citizens, but we're looking at them, and the prime minister, in his own way, is doing a much easier group talk about maneuvering, diversion and a measure of deception, deception. Now, as the Prime Minister speaks, word is getting out to the agencies. Do you know what that news is, valued lawmakers? For the past three days, one of the TEDAS workers who drowned in the lake in Erzurum has been powered out for three days. Why? Because he didn't pay the 30 or so lira debt, and today, over warnings, and that debt, the price of electricity is being paid, and electricity is being reconnected to the dead worker's house. That's the real view of the country. The hunger, openness of 75 million, unemployment, abuse, and unfortunately, his longing for democracy, peace. Business killings continue, so it's scheduled for tomorrow. One of the most recent work killings was the murder of Dr. Ersin Arslan, who died that way in 2011, 1,500 workers, workers, and workers. Yesterday (April 23rd) was the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, a ceremony was held in parliament, and we are looking at children in our country, hungry, uneducated. Child labor is unfortunately our reality and children who can't speak their native language, and on top of that, they're under arrest, children under arrest. Now, for several days in the press, the former ministers and the one convicted in the Susurlik investigation are filled with news of the prison where Mehmet Agar will be imprisoned and the Ministry of Justice seeking a suitable prison for security reasons. Finally, a closed prison was found in Aydın. Now, in the initial provisions of the Constitution, here is the democratic, secular, social law state. So the law will be carried out equally, undiscriminately for everyone, and we hear from the government, the government, the government's spokesman, that it will be dealt with with by the coupters, that the killings will be illuminated. But what remains behind what is happening in Susurlik is not illuminated, it is not calculated. The government's secrets are protected behind the concept. In particular, when asked about the Mumcu assassination, it is said to be under it when the brick is drawn. Covered funds are not told where they're being spent, and the weapons bought and licenses issued by Mehmet Agar under his own signature are not being pursued. Where's the confrontation? Where's the fight with the coupgers? Where are you pulling the strings on the gangs? Where's lighting Turkey's history? With all this going on, it's a double standard in real justice, law. On July 2nd, those who protest the Sivas massacre last year are sentenced to a year's punishment after a year's passing. Why? Because Madimak Hotel is being punished for being turned into a public building against the wishes of the wounded Alevi citizens and for having an unauthorized meeting in front of this public building. This is the situation of the double standard of justice in our country. And again, when we look at our country's problems, in terms of its realities, workers, workers, disabled people, pensioners, the government of this country that can't offer pensioners a human future, the government that can't offer them a life, the pensioner who has to work again as if it wasn't enough, can also be tax cuts for these second jobs without exception. Such insecurities, such inefficiency, such inefficiency, but beyond that, incentives to capital groups, block reductions, VAT exemptions, customs exemptions, cheap land... all of this, while these incentives are being done, tax cuts continue again from workers, from minimum wage, from pensioners. Now, today, our fellow Regents, and April 24th, of course, is an important date, but the unresolved Armenian claims took the oath and continued. A confrontation, a reckoning with a date, our brothers, citizens of this country, the feeling of Armenians from the ancient peoples of this country, the suffering they have experienced in history, drama, tragedy, a day to learn from, a day to remember. Here's where we have to address the Armenian people, the Armenian citizens, and here's where they're going to hurt their feelings more and more and more. In fact, on April 24, 1915, in Istanbul, 235 Armenian intellectuals, journalists, writers, poets were put on the train and sent to where? This transfer, this exile, what happened, what followed, what some of us said was a great disaster, what some of us said was genocide, but we didn't want to admit it, why did it happen? Isn't it probably the work of anti-enemy propaganda that lit them up and killed Armenian Private Sevag Fisherman, who came before us a year ago as a work of emotions? Wasn't that the same phrase made at the rally of the wire when the Minister himself said these banners in front of him? Therefore, the Armenian people, the Armenians who live in this land, don't feel safe. As long as we don't talk like this or talk like this on April 24th, as long as we go over it like this, no Armenian will unfortunately feel safe. Now that we're looking, the Joint Chiefs have submitted the documents of the Dersim massacre to the House; well, well, well. Let's investigate these and go for it. Let the same documents be brought before us in this regard. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0038par0520	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Abdulkerim Gök, MP of Şanlıurfa who asked for a personal word.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0039par0523	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to make amendments to the Code of Law with some of the number 223. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. The BDDK, Savings Insurance Fund, which included the previous speakers, particularly in the law proposal, has been used to express some remarkable and underline concepts about the reassignments and times of both the presidents and those involved in the upper board. In particular, at the point of macroeconomic performance, they expressed some opinions at the point of assessment of Turkey's point of origin. I'd love to see them make some suggestions and hear them instead of their own critics when they're being criticized. Frankly, I listened carefully to all the speakers. I wonder what could happen. So while I've been promised on my own behalf, I've been thinking about what I can share. I would especially like to share with you my views on the length of this extension of the mandates of BDDK and Savings Insurance Fund presidents. Of course, in this law proposal, there is also a provision of authority for the Council of Ministers, especially at the point of restructuring loans to the companies involved in privatisation of our farmers' debt. I'd like to share my views on this with our great nation and the Holy Parliament. Of course, these views are important, of course, but we would like to share with you my knowledge of the arrangements in the European Union, in the United States, in Canada, after expressing my thoughts on macroeconomic performance expressed by my fellow opposition lawmakers, group spokesman friends. Because of the crisis, the banking system in many developed and developing countries has been damaged and supported by public resources, while the banking sector in our country has continued its strong capital structure and profitability without any state assistance, and has played an important role in the recovery of the economy after the crisis. Although the Turkish banking system in particular had a new concept in our country, on the basis of the economic model in Turkey, the developed European countries began to discuss a title called the "Turkey model." So Turkey, along with the crisis, is trying to imitate the Turkish banking system in order to overcome the challenges that the BDDK and Savings Insurance Fund have implemented in what area the basic policies in which it has implemented the process management of its process, the European Union member states and the current crisis period. Turkey performed well during and after the global financial crisis in terms of macroeconomic outlook. Maintaining macroeconomic stability in the coming period is the focus of monetary and financial policies. Turkey stands out between the banking system and the world's countries. Turkey is the only country in the OECD countries that does not allocate funds from public to banks. Our security system hasn't changed, let alone separate public resources. The deposit guarantee continued the same way before the crisis, after the crisis. For example, in 2002, the Bank of Agriculture is now able to lend £155 million a week, when the volume of the loan is 200 million a year. Turkey has not only locked down public banks, but also private banks with the BDDK and Savings Insurance Fund. After 2001, the Banking Sector Reconstruction Programme was put into practice, in order to improve the financial structures and the performances of profitability by the crisis of November 2000 and February 2001. The programme is aimed at restructuring public banks, resolving banks turned over to TMSF, rehab of the private banking system, strengthening the surveillance and control framework and boosting activity in the sector.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0040par0531	It's the 57th Government, isn't it, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0039par0532	Under the programme, the state-owned banks' capital structures have been strengthened, paid for the damage of their duties, and the regulations that allow new mission losses have been removed, the short-term obligations have been eliminated.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0040par0533	It's from the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0039par0534	These banks have been operationally restructured, a professional staff in their administration, and the number of branches and staff has been reduced to rational levels. Banks handed over to the TMSF have been resolved for short periods, such as mergers, sales or direct liquidation. As of September 2009, the total collection of banks, which were resolved by the TMSF, amounted to $18.6 billion, creating collections from bank judges. Following the Law on Banking and the laws of Law 6138 have been effective in providing significant increases in collection revenues since 2005. The regulation for the banking sector strengthens the monitoring and control framework, makes the banking system a more efficient and competitive structure, improves the stability of the sector and ensures lasting trust in the sector, and the legal framework is adapted to international standards. A new financial structure has been envisioned here in 2005 to ensure financial stability through Banking Law 5411, to strengthen the sector's development, control, implementation and regulation framework, to protect the rights and interests of austerity owners, to strengthen institutional ability. In all this coverage, in all of this, in order to listen to speakers who say that at the macroeconomic performance point in Turkey, Turkey's economy faces a virtually black picture and scenario, I clearly find it useful to express: I have a sense that economists outside the country, while economists have different views and assessments of Turkey's economy, as if they were talking about another world under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and speaking from this bench. When we talk about these statistics, how all the statistics in the past -- the State Statistical Institute, which we now perceive as Turkey's Statistical Foundation -- have a lot of meaning in the economy in which our citizens live in Turkey's global financial crisis, and what the present point is, our friends and we are here every day, through this platform, are able to explain to our beloved nation. In particular, it is useful to point out: Let there be regulations in both the BDK and the Savings Insurance Fund -- your property -- my dear fellow lawmakers, here in particular the criteria for independence and banks, as well as the higher boards, while one or two of the criteria for independence are related to the mandates of those who serve here. Another topic is the appointment and criteria and shape of his president within the independence criteria here. Thus, we can easily see that this appointment includes second appointments, third appointments in European Union member states, and a period of four and five years. So the arrangement is actually a very reasonable and proper arrangement in terms of the international norm standards, in the framework of the European Union, developed European economies. The point of our country's economy is that when our citizens are confronted with the real, real economy that we're dealing with here, we're dealing with different concepts, almost the concepts that we're talking about, and we're going to have a deep, ideological debate about the concepts that we're talking about, our citizens are actually saying: no matter what you talk about, we're out there with political stability in this country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in addition to political stability, we are led by a very beautiful economic model, and I say this economic model is an economic model that sets an example for the world, and I say yes, I will vote for it. I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0041par0544	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Now there will be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Bilici, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0042par0547	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to give you an update on the electric bills in the van. About 30,000...
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0043par0550	Mr. Knower, you will ask questions, please... we didn't turn on the microphone to give you information. We're doing a QA. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0042par0552	Okay, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0043par0553	Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0044par0554	Mr. Secretary, people who were not civil servants were taken from some institutions in order for things to work better in the TMSF. Later, in 2006, all employees in the TMSF (TMSF) became civil servants, but these friends are victimised by the disregard of the past services of our friends from the outside. Our friends who are not civil servants are now civil servants, but their pension and other rights are not taken into account, our friends are being victimised, they are being victimised tomorrow in their retirement. So, are you thinking about doing a study on this -- that's the problem with a very important part of our friends there? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0043par0556	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0045par0558	Mr. President, thank you. What is the amount of money that TMSF has collected about the sunken banks so far? What's the amount that he needs to collect and the amount that's being processed, the amount that's being sued? What kind of transaction on assets, real estate? What's the amount of money that's being paid from treasure to bankrupt banks? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0046par0561	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0047par0563	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu and Mr. Hasip Kaplan have questions, both related to the TMSF, which is the Savings Insurance Fund. In fact, both subjects require some data. I'd like to answer this in writing, Mr. President, to my friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0048par0566	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I'll put it to your votes.
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0049par0569	It's enough to make a decision...
tbmm-2012-04-24sit01spe0048par0570	I will, Mr. President. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
