tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Ankara MP Tülay Selışoğlu who wants to address World Urbanism Day.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on World Urbanity Day. I salute you all. The Day of World Urbanism, November 8th, is the day in more than 30 countries where there are panels, conferences, and increased sensitivity to living cities and the effects of social life. Today, more than half of the world's population lives in cities, and by 2050, the world's population is estimated to reach 9 billion and the city's population will reach 6 billion. Dear lawmakers, rapid urbanization has brought with it many problems. For decades, our cities grew randomly and unplannedly without any control power. Without aesthetic concern, the natural environment has caused the destruction of historical, cultural and natural resources of the growing residential units, regardless of the needs of humans and the preservation of the present historical tissue. Governments have not made or implemented the right and realistic settlement decisions throughout Turkey. Plans have been made, but plans have followed urbanization, rather than watching urbanisation, which is left behind abnormally growing populations and needs. The main decisions were not determined by state policy, but by their own political opinion, they became arbitrary practices with election concerns. As a result of unscheduled urbanization, the roads networks were inadequate, the sewers, the drinking water systems were not built, and the system began to lock on. The development and development of all the cities of Turkey at the same rate, because of the lack of strengthening programmes for the integration of areas, has increased populations in some cities, problems have increased, housing needs have increased, education, health centre, and police stations have been unable to accommodate social buildings. The route networks, airports, are not programmed to help the cities develop, connect them. The AK PARTY launched the planned work to provide housing, social-equipped areas, the protection of the city's history, the city's history, and move into the future. Dear lawmakers, we've made it possible for cities to rise as they change the face of the country through divided roads, highways, fast train lines, airports, subways. In 2002, between 6,100km and 6 cities were connected by the divided road, and in 10 years, the distance of 15,800km and 71 counties were connected. There have been studies in our 81 counties, in our 800 districts, aimed at producing 560,000 dwellings. Four hundred and thirty-eight thousand were delivered to their owners with environmental arrangements and social facilities. As part of the urban transformation, the construction of 261,000 housing slums is currently under way. We've made a legal arrangement for building buildings that could bring safe, healthy cities to the brink of disaster by tearing down buildings. With the project to be implemented, we plan the transformation of 6.5 million dwellings in our country in 20 years. The drinking water problem of all our cities, including Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, Bursa, Mersin, Erzurum, has been resolved. We subtracted the number of cities that were gased from 9 counties by 71. Before 2002, 46 foundations were restored in ten years, while we maintained the history of our cities by restoring 3,750 works in ten years. We're raising 16 major cities to 29. We will not allow unplanned construction by providing the zoning integrity of the capital cities. So far, with the laws of urban transformation, we've created the largest shantytown transformation and urban renovation programme in the history of the republic. We've done transformation projects without a political party distinction. We've identified the 2014-2023 targets of our cities. Dear lawmakers, it is our duty not only to make the city a city but to make it beautiful and move the cities that we live in without forgetting that the structures, structure groups, and the transportation that connect them, infrastructure, social equipment systems, and all the institutions that make it possible, are the only ones that make it a city, and move it into the future. I'm celebrating World City Day. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İzmir MP Aytun Çıray. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. Professor Mehmet Haberal, who is currently lying at Silivri concentration camp not knowing what his crime is, has sent a message to show that he cares about his patients even under these circumstances. Now I'd like to voice his message. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, since it is considered an organ donor week every week from November 3rd, I will briefly address the problems of organ transplants, which are the most effective treatment for chronic organ disease. With the door of organ transplants opened on November 3, 1975, many chronic organ patients have been rehabilitated so far, although significant distances have been made in both our country and the world, many problems continue to exist. Although there are many patients, there is not enough tissue or organs to cover them. In some countries around the world, this situation has been reduced to a minimum, such as Spain. Ninety percent of organ transplants are covered by organs taken from people who died, while in our country, that's 25 percent. For these reasons, many patients have lost their lives because of the absence of organs, while many patients have lost their lives for various reasons, such as those in traffic accidents. Although our laws on tissue and organ transplants are highly modern and adequate, although our resources are world-class, it is clear that for different reasons, especially organizations, our dead people have not been able to benefit from their organs at the desired level, and a number of patients still have to continue their treatment abroad under illegal, inadequate conditions. In other words, the organ is being bought. Since the 1980s, this illegal practice has continued in some countries. Unfortunately, despite our laws, it has happened from time to time in our country. It still remains a serious problem in the world. On 30 April 2 May 2008, the World Organ Transport Association and the World Nephrology Association held a meeting in Istanbul to prevent this from happening and inform the communities, which included 152 members from 78 countries, and the Istanbul Declaration was released at the end of the meeting. Its main goal is to prevent organ trafficking in the world and ensure that transplants are carried out by sticking to human rights and ethical rules, as well as by communicating with the country's administration and contributing to education when necessary in countries that have no law on transplanting. Just as the Helsinki Declaration is being tried, the expression of the Istanbul Declaration is being used as a rule in preventing organ trafficking, thus promoting our country. In many countries, especially in China and India, the study of the World Organ Transport Association has immediately yielded its results with the intense work of the World Organization; both law and trade have been prevented, but in some countries, organ trafficking is still under way, and unfortunately, in our country, our patients have to go to these countries with significant money. Of course, people can get their treatments done wherever they want, but it's impossible to accept an application in the position of organ trafficking. Naturally, every patient wants to get healthy as soon as possible. Therefore, it is our duty to provide for our citizens in our own country as soon as possible to bring them back to health. Mr. President, even though our country has the most modern laws in the world, unfortunately, many of our patients are losing their lives and many of our patients are leaving us with their intact organs. So I ask you to donate your organs and to help many chronic organ patients regain their life by leading our nation in this matter, believing and trusting us physicians. CHP's 24th term Zonguldak MP Prof. Dr. Mehmet Haberal. Dear friends, it's probably the first time Turkey has lived a freak who's reads the messages of lawmakers in prison in media. I'm protesting that, too. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0005par0040	We thank Mr. Haberal. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0006par0044	Reverend President, my esteemed deputies, I'm afraid the level of Turkish politics is getting lower. The style of the AKP and CHP's group meetings today does not suit Turkish politics, Turkish nation and our Veteran Assembly. One is the Prime Minister, the President of the Main Opposition Party, and look at the words they use: the unfortunate Bedouin, the polar bear, the chicken, the rooster... Dear MPs, this is the Veteran Assembly. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is sitting in the seat of Mr. President, and you are the MPs of an Assembly led by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Prime Minister of the Main Opposition Party. If the President of this Prime Minister and the Chief Opposition Party has a level-determination test, they will fail. If he makes this level detection test, there will be a copying scandal, and if you put it to the vote, you will still use false votes, as AKP did. Yes, you'll use false votes, like the AKP used before. Remember, this isn't just any place, this is the Veteran Assembly. You don't address any community, you appeal to the Turkish nation. That's why I'd like to invite you to a leveled tone. As for Iğdır....the precious MPs of Iğdır. In many parts of Turkey, one of the fast universities also opened in Iğdır. Unfortunately, the university opened in Iğdır is in a foreign state today. Mr. Rector was appointed for the second time, but it's as if the university's only name was Iğdir University, the Iğdır branch of Van University or Diyarbakır University, and Mr. President considers himself the Iğdır representative of that university. Why are these universities being founded, Mr. Lawmakers? It is built to contribute to the development of Iğdır. But this university, because of the wrong practices of Mr. President of the Iğdır University, has not contributed to the development of Iğdır. Therefore, I would like to present to you the attention of a city that has become a victim of the wrong practices of the university rectors appointed in your era of power. On this occasion, I'd like to call our President from here as well. There are potatoes in lğdır. There is no need to buy potatoes from the van. I'll put it in simple terms. We have unemployed young people in Iğdır. There is no need for people from Diyarbakır to be brought in and employed in İğdır. It will either be called Iğdır, or the people of Iğdır will expel the President of the University of Iğdır from Iğdır. Let me make this clear. Dear lawmakers, the Plain of Iğdır was once known as the Çukurova of the East. But your politics have made the Plain of Iğdır dehydrate and scorched. You can no longer hold on to watering systems in the world, and you can't figure out how many different systems are being used. The farmer in Iğdır is still trying to water it with mud channels, soil canals, weed-ridden canals. And with the HESEs that you've built recently, unfortunately Igdir has become a place without watering anymore, which is parched with thirst. Unfortunately, the irrigation troops are also in the Iğdır, and unfortunately, they're miserable, and the government doesn't care. Dear MPs, we've expressed it many times before, the Metsamor Nuclear Power Plant is a great threat to Iğdır, to the region, to the world. We said, you didn't care. Unfortunately, the Metsamor Nuclear Plant, which has already completed its technical life, has been extended for another ten years. That's because your government, your Energy Minister, is reckless, reckless. Do people have to die to take precautions in this country? Do people have to die there in order for the environmentalists in Turkey to pay attention to the Meteor Nuclear Plant? I declare from here, people are dying. Unfortunately in Iğdır, unfortunately, the low rates are above Turkey, and the cancer rates are far above Turkey's level. People are dying, the Iğdır people are dying, but you don't care. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of Turkish Friendship Group President Fabian Hamilton and a Parliamentary Committee with him has been found in accordance with the 30,10,2012 decision of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court. The delegation's visit to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the General Assembly's information on the matter. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly More important than the problem areas of the Turkish education system is the training and employment of teachers. During our training history, there have been numerous attempts to raise teachers, but employment has never been as much of a problem as it has been in the last 10 years. My educational system's demands were unresponsive and unresponsive at the level of teaching. Not long ago, our teachers, who grew up in three ways (institution, faculty, higher education) were converted into two and four years of education, together with the YOC law. The increase in the number of universities in the 1990s resulted in two years of higher education and a four-year bachelor's degree in all education schools. Since the years of November 6, 1981's 2547 law in force, the errors of practices have now been better understood. The success and prediction of the years to leave the training majors are also an indication of the PED's pedagogic approach. In 1996, every major-educated teacher who received a bachelor's degree was given an application that could enter Turkish education history. Law 1739 says it's a teaching profession. Today we can look at all graduates of education and education school as teachers on the outside of the system, as teachers of agriculture, communication, veterinary, engineering, economics, business and so on as teachers in the system. Of course, it is not our teachers who are assigned to that task, but those who are responsible for the administrative responsibility. The natural result is the inadequacy of education. Today there are 87 education schools in our country. In 2010-2011, 67,853 new students enrolled and 47,930 students graduated the previous year. In our education schools, 264.551 students are still trained to become teachers. In addition to education schools, science school, language and history faculty, technical education faculty, vocational education faculty, fine arts faculty, sports academys, theology faculty, and so on, are also able to open programs aimed at teaching teachers, and the graduates are waiting to become teachers. A statement from the Minister of National Education expects 264,000 teachers to be appointed. The ministry stated that the need is 126,000. The number of 60,000 before the AKP's rule has now increased to five times today. The colleges and education colleges with each have doubled their quota capacity over the last five years. Every aspect of our educational system has a teaching deficit. In order to reach the level of membership in EU member states and OECD countries, which we intend to become members of, in other words, 220,000 more teachers must be employed to reduce the number of students per teacher to 16 teachers. The strongest 16. In our country, which boasts about being an economy, there are 22 students per teacher in the first and middle school, 11 students in Hungary, 11 in Greece, 19 in Slovakia, 11 in Portugal. It is not understandable that the teacher should not be appointed when there is an emergency need within the system. The ministry is able to meet the need not by appointing teachers, but by employing paid teachers. It is also thought to be that teachers' licenses are uneducated. The Ministry of National Education and the NGO have insisted that they have not and have not planned the necessary plans against human power policies in years. When our students study to become teachers with high hopes, it is not understandable that the public should be insensitive to such a social injury. This is a sign of insensitiveness when the minister says, "Let them get a job outside of teaching. " Education in Turkey is largely run by public hands. The private teaching institutions have not been big enough. Therefore, the job of a teacher is the job and duty of the public. Educated faculty graduates can't be judged like any grad student. The Constitution is 98, 104 of the ÜMMI's Inclusion of the Constitution to be investigated in all dimensions of our teachers and education faculty and MEB's human power policies. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened. [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Bolu]] [[Amasya]] [[Army]] [[Adıyaman]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 13) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Aydın]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] 17) Osman Oktay Sokshi [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 26) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 29) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] 31) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The coal-based workers of thermal power plants are the most dangerous for humans and the environment. 41% of the world's carbon emissions are caused by the thermal plant. At this rate, carbon dioxide emissions from coal are expected to increase by more than 60% by 2030. Turkey is number one among all OECD and transition economies with rapidly increasing carbon dioxide emissions. Our country, with its weaknesses in maintaining environmental values, is able to plan to build 15 coal-based thermal plants as well as 46 other plants. It is thought to be involved in a strategy that will also lead to a global point of our internal dangers (e.g. pollution, coal storage, etc.) carbon emissions. Our country needs energy, but the need cannot be repaired by the destruction of natural resources and by creating global pollution. In addition, each phase of the plant construction process must be in accordance with the law. It's the management's duty to resolve our energy requirements without confronting our environmental and economic values. Moreover, the government and the ministry should also notice that our citizens have a negative attitude towards the process of imported coal-based thermal plants, which are being imposed and pressured. An imported coal-based thermal plant planned to be established in our district of Gerze, Sinop Province, is unable to convince even an economic, environmental, social, health and cultural area. If we look at some of the opposition points of our people and our NGOs, the reality of the situation will be seen. The plant will be located 700 metres away from its drinking water sources, near the first-degree archaeological SCE field. The Samsun Medical Chamber also reports that the plant will cause water pollution. Gerze, one of the model tourist cities in the Black Sea region, will produce coal burned in one year by our county, a plant that will burn in one day, 1,100 tons of volatile ash and suffocation. A 2855m-long coal discharge port will prevent water circulation at sea. The plant area is a first-degree watery agricultural area. Although it's rural, there's a lot of population density. It is the spawning ground of all the fish of the Middle Black Sea. The University of May 19 has documented this volley area. The plant will pull 464 000 m3 of water out of the sea a day and use it as cooling water. All fish, fish eggs and microorganisms will be destroyed along with this water being pulled. When the boiling water discharges into the sea, the sea water averages two degrees, and its ecological balance will deteriorate. There is also a report on the site of fish production in the district of Sinop Province of Agriculture. The SWOT analysis, part of the Regional Plan of the Northern Anadolu Development Agency, described the thermal plant as a threat to the environment and energy department. The plant's influence will be in agricultural, cultural, historical, tourist areas, such as Sinop County, Bafra Plain. The Sarikum nature preserve, 22km from the plant, will be affected by the plant. Despite the public opposition of NGOs, despite the reservations in the official documents of various institutions and institutions of the state, the construction of imported coal-based thermal power plants will put our country in every position. A review of the government's energy policies, including the global size, and 98 of the Constitution, 104 of the TBM Administration, to investigate the effects of thermal power plants on human health, agriculture and environment. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened. [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Let's go.]] [[Army]] [[Amasya]] [[Bolu]] [[Adıyaman]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 17) Osman Oktay Sokshi [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 25) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 29) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 30) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, oral and dental health problems are the most common and preventable diseases, and 74 million people are served with 9.322 dentists working in public. There is a major inequality to the distribution of dentists according to the areas. The problems with dentists have been ignored so far, and the problems with health conversion policies have been added, making it almost impossible for the public to receive quality and equal dental care. In order for the public to reach the quality and equal oral health care services, we offer and provide for the opening of Parliamental Research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to determine what the need for dental care is and to address the inequality of the distribution; to determine the problems the dentists have experienced and the solutions to these problems. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Health is one of the most basic human rights, and therefore lies within the basic responsibilities of the state. But in our country, especially after the 1990s, health care has been removed from being a public service, one step at a time. The privatisation has also aggravated the living conditions of health workers. Dentists are the head of health workers, whose living conditions are becoming increasingly high. Mouth and tooth health problems are the most common and preventable diseases in the world. Also, when we look at the oral dental data of our society, the need for decaying prevelance and treatment is enormous. The frequency of going to a dentist is 5 years/sometimes and 0.9 years/times in our country. Governments should prioritize protective oral dental care, which is the basic principle of health care, but in our country, the state is trying to serve 74 million people with 9.322 dentists working in public. The geographical distribution of dentists is highly unstable. A total of twenty-nine dentists are in Mush, while a hundred and three dentists work in Osmaniye, which has a close population. A legal arrangement for removing the imbalance in the geographical distribution of dentists must be carried out immediately. Although Turkey's Dentist Association and scientists demand it, a rational health policy for the use of human power in the field of oral and dental health is not implemented by governments, preventing public access to health care. Today, dentists have many important problems, as well as a large number of patients. In private hospitals, clinics, and centers, dentists are employed under low wage and unsecured conditions. In addition, with a performance application in the name of transformation in health; A. The solidarity of dentists has been damaged and competition has been fundamental in the working environment, and the wage inequality among physicians has increased, and business peace has been broken. b. Indoor horizontal and vertical relations have been negatively affected. c. The doctor-patient relationship has been negatively affected, the patient's percussion and treatment has decreased, the quality of health care has been reduced, and the patient's intensity has increased. d. Dentists' participation in congress, symposium, and other scientific activities has fallen, which has created a barrier to the development of professional quality. The main problem with the performance system, as it is today, is that it tries to measure the efficiency of a field that works directly on human beings, and therefore ignores the basic indicators of quality. In order to speak of quality and success in health, however, qualified business production must be increased, quantitatively unpredicted, and the standardary arrangements must be made. Another problem with dentists is that health legislation revised by governments cannot meet the demands of today's conditions. The Ministry of Health's arrangements for expertise also pose a risk of new dissolution among dentists. One important problem with dentists is that they cannot participate in public union activities. The most important reasons for this are the work density of dentists, pressure from hospital administrators to be at equal distance from all trade unions and to be a member of some trade unions. Today dentists want to be able to improve their knowledge so that they can maintain no shortage of income, human life, pensions, and a working arrangement that can allow them to spend time with their families and themselves; to be able to practice good medicine without any pressure; to provide qualified health care for patients; to maintain body and mental health; to avoid violence; to have peace in the institutions they work at; to have no anxiety about getting fired from work. In our country, oral and dental problems are the most common and preventable diseases. However, it is evident from the problems of dentists that the government does not care about. It is possible that the state can provide equal and qualified oral and dental health services to all citizens, primarily by resolving the problems of dentists who are in charge of this service, and by resolving the disparity of the distribution of dentists across the country. In this sense, it is important to establish the need for dentistry in our country to determine what is relative to the regions, what are the problems of dentists, and to open parliament research in order to determine the solutions to these problems. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There are seven gene motions. Six motions earlier, one motion was published today and distributed to the members. I'll have the motions read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Using the political position of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in its applications, we request and demand that the Constitution be opened under Article 106 of the Constitution on the 99th and Individual Eroglu, which undermines and abuses the public. Seyfettin Yılmaz Ahmet Duran Bulut Mustafa Kalaycı Bulent Belen Tunca Tuskaya Enver Erdem Emin Haluk Ayhan Münir Kutluata Mehmet Erdoğan Mustafa Erdem Reşat Right Kemalettin Yilmaz == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Atila Kaya Ali Halaman Necati Özensoy Özcan Yeniçeri Zühal Topcu Nevzat Don't Be afraid The "rehabation tenders" began in 1996 at the Istanbul Forest Directorate in order to rehabilitate and rehabilitate the abandoned mines that have been pitted by mining in the Istanbul forests until the last quarter of 2007. These tenders were almost peaked during the "2003-2007" years, making large revenues that were not much of an example in the history of forestry. As a matter of fact, the Istanbul Regional Directorate, which has often suffered in the past years, has made significant profits only because of these tenders, and has won first place among the Regional Managers in 2005. After the end of the tenders, there were dramatic decreases in Regional Directorate profitability, and after seven years, it was damaged again for the first time in 2009. These tenders, which bring substantial income to the public, have been determined to be "the absolute necessity of forestry" and "the source of public opinion" by a verdict other than the Constitution and the laws. A large "Yetki Gasp" was created in Istanbul in order to halt the Istanbul Forest Regional Regional Regional Area tenders providing public revenue due to a minimum amount of "100 million dollars a year" and transfer a total of "4-5 billion dollars" to a potential public resource. Until the last quarter of 2007, the forest headquarters and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs have never been allowed to achieve their goals by making great effort and determination to overcome the extortion of authority. After the last quarter of 2007, efforts by the Hafiyat event to prevent the extortion of authority in Istanbul were halted, with great determination and dedication, given up the institutional struggle that has been under way for many years, supported by illegal procedures. This has caused the cease-and-desist tenders in Istanbul's Forest Regional Directorate since 1996, the public's losses of millions of dollars, and the "organised waste of tarta-based haphryat land" and the "Istanbul geography." "The Law of the Forest and the Rehab of the Old Mines, which has been changed in violation of the Constitution by the Law of the Forest, which violates the law of the jungle, has not only been halted, but has been laid down for years by the tender-made "General Directorate of the Forest" as well as the legal basis for the transfer of the municipality to people or institutions. In Istanbul, the tender method by the last quarter of 2007 will provide millions of dollars to the public, and the efforts to rehabilitate old mines in the forest will be a source of efficiency if this legal change is implemented. For the first time in the history of public administration, the rule of law has been set up for the first time in a public source of income that can be used by the private sector without contracting. At the time when the law of the forest was changed, nearly 170m euros were made from the tender for rehabilitation and the construction of a quarry in the area owned by TOKI President. THIS tender of the TOKI presidency has corrupted all memorisations, while due to the legal amendment to the mayors of the forest, due to the grounds for the changes of the forest law presented by the Forest General's forced comments, has been able to make significant income to his institution due to the vision of governance, which has no legal obligation. The forest law, which has been changed due to the hafiyat run in Istanbul province, will lead to the greatest corruption of forestry in history. The main responsibility for these corruptions is the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, responsible for legal regulations and practices. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The definition and application of journalism of the TRT and Anadolu Agency should be neutral, clearly stated in the Constitution and the relevant law. However, the biased and political practices of these two institutions have reached extreme levels in recent years. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, who is responsible for the two institutions, also tolerated and even supported these practices. Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, 98th and 99th of the Constitution on Vice Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, who has failed to carry out his duties, who has not been able to maintain the neutrality of the institutions and has been allowed to be filled with supporting staffs, who have allowed public resources to be transferred to supporters and therefore have been shaken by confidence in him. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to announce the opening of the Gensor on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. With all due respect. 132 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. "The autonomy and neutrality of news agencies who have been helped by the only radio and television agency established as a state's public policy is based on the autonomy and the neutrality of its publications." The sentence is in place. Turkey's Radio Television Law titled "The Purpose" 1st. The issue emphasises the autonomy and neutrality of the TRT. The framework clearly states that the definition and implementation of journalism of the TRT and Anadolu Agency should be neutral, in the Constitution and in the relevant law. However, the biased and political practices of these two institutions have reached extreme levels in recent years. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, who is responsible for the two institutions, has also tolerated and even supported these practices. It is against the law that the executives of these institutions use their institutions for personal gain and political manipulation to prevent citizens from acting as partisans by obstructing the freedom of neutral information. The only autonomous institution in Turkey that covers 80 liras of every $100 he spends on taxes from the public is the TRT. Therefore, all parties and political parties should be treated equally and impartially without opposition. But TRT has become the trumpet of AKP power. TRT is a tool for not reporting, for manipulating public opinion, to improve the AKP's public image, to promote it. The TRT broadcasts for hours on the activities of the ruling party, giving almost no part of the opposition. The AKP government restricts TBMM broadcasts from TBM3 to meet law talks at hours where TBM TV is not on the air, thus allowing the curfews and shortcomings of the law to be removed and the voice of the opposition to the public. Unfortunately, it is said that the public broadcasters should be neutral and fair, as the Constitution and the law states, as Bulent Arinc himself stated. In addition to these biased publications, it is also another fact that TRT has high salaries for its various units, including people in its immediate vicinity, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Meanwhile, internal productions on TRT channels are known to come to an end, and TRT is making programs available to outside agencies. According to Mr. Arinc's statements, there are 6,211 officers at the TRT, 7,46 employees with 835 contracts. In this case, it is evident that the TRT personnel have not been taken full advantage of. Public resources are being squandered by the millions of dollars spent on TRT outside productions and by the work given to supporters. Mr. Bulent Arinc is responsible for the mismanagement and biased publication of a network with public broadcasting responsibility and costs taken over by the community. In an interview published in a newspaper, we interviewed Osman Ocalan in response to a question directed to him by TRT Director Ibrahim Şahin. It's in my drawer. We'll publish it when the time and the place is right," another indication of how desperate the TRT is. In addition, TRT and Anadolu Agency have published a report on the issue of Murat Karayilan, the leader of the terrorist organization in Iran, which has been found to be untrue. TRT and Anadolu Agency are also responsible for the scandal related to the bomb-loaded car report. Interviewing a violent terrorist like Osman Ocalan and the fact that the records will be "explained as long as possible" by holding drawers shows that TRT has become a tool for psychological action and has become a tool for manipulation of power. As a result, the Constitution's 98th Amendment on Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, whose confidence was shaken and failed to carry out his duties and responsibilities. And 99. In accordance with Article 106 of the TBM Administration, we demand and demand that the geneor be opened. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Because of their statements to the separatist terrorist organization, encouraging hope, giving talks to terrorists to justify separatist motives, giving public statements to the public about dealing with terrorists, identity and Constitution debates with them as normal, ordinary cases, and fighting terrorism for the undistributable integrity of the country and the nation at the expense of their lives, their psychology, morale, perseverance, and fighting power, and statements of the Constitution 98th and 99th, which undermine the Constitution's 98th and 99th, which undermined the Constitution of TBM Council. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to announce the opening of the Gensor on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. With all due respect. The indivisible integrity of the Republic of Turkey with its country and its nation is under great threat by the terrorist organization's attacks and separatist activities. He swears on his honor and honor to protect the state of the Republic of Turkey, which is "undivisible to its country and nation" so that a chosen person can enter under the roof of the TBMM. The fight against terrorism can be achieved with the common will and posture of the nation-state-judgment-security bureaucracy. In contrast, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has made statements that, in his various speeches, will give morale to the separatist terrorist organization, inspire hope, and justify their separatist ambitions. Mr. Bulent Arinc's almost every speech on the matter gives moral support to anti-human, separatist/killer terrorists and inspires hope. It upsets the psychology and morale of the security forces fighting terrorism. Some of the talks made by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc regarding separatist terrorism and its organisation in various times and grounds are as follows: During the 2011 budget talks, Mr. Bulent Arinc said: "To deny a person's identity is to deny that person. With his Kurdish identity and his Arab identity and his Bosniak identity, whatever comes to mind... All of them, whoever, whatever they have, will be able to identify themselves on this land. We'll respect that identity. We'll give you all the cultural rights, constitutional rights of that identity, and we'll recognize it." Mr. Arinc, the 60th and 62th Treaty of Sevr signed before the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. He speaks without knowledge of his substance. He does not speak of the purposes of the Kurdistan Teali Society, which operates before the announcement of Misak. Mr. Arinc reduces the problem of terrorism to identity issues, such as population and citizenship director. He says whoever has an identity problem will respect all of them and give them all their cultural rights, their constitutional rights. If Mr. Bulent Arinc, Vice Prime Minister of a government that's been in power for ten years, has anything to give someone that he deserves, why doesn't he give it to the citizens, and he talks like he's provoking them? The Diyarbakır Police Commissioner's first citizen before home, 'if you don't pity the terrorist in the mountains and cry, you're not human' etc. Against his speech, Mr. Arinc says: "I appreciate it when we look at the content of the talk. I wish the police in that area were also in those thoughts." The terrorists on the mountain where the police chief indexed his humanity and Mr. Bulent Arinc participated in "empathy" are the perpetrators of these verbs: Mehmetchiçiks, police martyrs, ambushes, mines on the roads, raids schools, kidnaps teachers, fires citizens' trucks, imams, and kills innocent people. The investigation has been launched against the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner. He also offers moral, motivation and support to PKK/KCK members. On the other hand, Mr. Arinc is trying to legitimize Oslo and normalize the vile images of Habur. Habur and Oslo are the enemies of the State of Turkey and the Turkish Nation. "Oslo species talks can be done now, perhaps it is being done now," says Bulent Arinc, deputy prime minister, applauding both processes with a major incident. With this attitude, he is using his status to perform psychological operations against the public. His public opinion is setting up grounds for him not to react to talks with terrorists and to be held. He's presented to the public as a normal, ordinary case of meeting terrorists, discussing identity and constitution with them. Bulent Arinc ignores historical, political and social development and facts and calls the issue of Dersim a "facia." He's using past cases of abuse as a means of abuse by the circumstances of time. People don't die, mothers don't cry, and she's being recklessly abused. He forgets that there are terrorists who make mothers cry, who slaughter people. It stings the souls of the martyrs. Mr. Arinc is also deeply conflicted when he tells the PKK's separatists what he has to say to the State (himself is its element) and to the nation. On the grounds stated above, Mr. Bulent Arinc, we demand and demand that the Constitution be opened under Article 106 of Articles 98 and 99 of the Constitution, and under Articles 106 of the Constitution of TBMM. The summary of the motion will be read now because the motion I will now read in the fourth row is more than 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be added to the Journal of Tutorak: (x) (11/18) is included in the full text of the primary Gensoru Prescription. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to additional grounds for Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz, 98th and 99th of the Constitution, 106th of the TBM Constitution. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to announce the opening of the Gensor on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group, Deputy Director of the Group. The most important step is the creation of the macroframe, which determines the political and financial foundations of multi-year budgeting in the Central Expenses System under Law 5018. The macroframe is created by the medium-term program (OVP) and the financial framework is created by the mid-term financial plan (OVMP). The OVP and OVMP, which introduced the mid-term economic and financial programme and headed the budget, were not published in the 16th Article of Law 5018. The release date of the OVP and OVMP documents, which were not published until 2011, has been changed to Article 17/59 of KHK, dated 26/9/2011. According to this, the OVP's release date was changed to "the end of May" by the end of September at the end of the first week," instead of "the end of June." However, the documents were published in the Official Journal on October 9, 2012, one month after the scheduled deadline. On the other hand, in 2012, when we look at the release dates of the budget documents, a freak appears. Normally, it was published in the Official Journal on October 9, 2012, with the Ministry of Budget Call for Budgets and the EK Budget Prep Guide for Development for the 2013-2015 Development Programme, which is necessary for budget logic and systematic preparation, which should be published after the OVP. In this case, it is understood that the ministries and public institutions have skilled experts who prepare budget proposals without a macroframe. This is an important issue for investors in the world of a global crisis, in terms of creditability of plans texts. The fact that these texts were not prepared in time in three years' time in perspective has led to a lack of confidence in the sides. In addition, due to the late release of the OVP, which includes strategic priorities for public policy, it provides an advantage for those who are aware of its content, while causing a disadvantage for those who are informed later. Furthermore, the lack of OVP and OVMPs in time means Parliament cannot use its budgetary rights. The mid-term fiscal plan, which has not been published in time for years, is the same day as the investment general and the budget draft guide, and the publication of the budget ten days before it was submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, means ignoring the TBMM. The Central Future Programme, which cannot be published or able to prepare for its institution at its proper time, has therefore been prevented from the proper use and assessment of the TBM's budget rights by the government of the Republic of Turkey and its public institutions and institutions in their foreign relations, which have weakened its reputation in domestic and domestic affairs, as well as in the process of drafting a vital national budget for our country. For these reasons, we demand and demand the opening of the geneor in accordance with Article 98 and 99 of the Constitution and Article 106 of the Institution in accordance with the above grounds regarding Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz, who has failed to carry out the obligations prescribed in the law and other relevant legislation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker, 98th and 99th of the Constitution, 106th of the TBMM Charter, which brought Turkey's Agriculture and Animalism to its end and has troubled our farmers and producers with wrongly implemented agricultural policies. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to announce the opening of the Gensor on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Our country's recent support for recognition has increased statistically, but has not been paralleled with GDP. As a result, many of our producers and farmers have had to give up production and employment in the industry has fallen. In agriculture, about a million, two hundred thousand people lost their jobs and people were cut off from agriculture. It's also an escape from the countryside to the city, bringing additional burdens to our government, and our agriculture has become pitiful. Agriculture is a very important economic and political sector for our country. According to national revenues, it is a high percentage industry, which contributes around 35% to employment, which is the source of revenue and fills the rural area. Over the past 10 years, our country's population has increased by about 7.5 or 8 million, while agricultural areas have been sadly reduced, production has declined in most agricultural products or has not increased at all. Agricultural input prices have increased dramatically. As a result, our farmers can't get fertilizer, they can't work their land enough and they can't water it. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has failed to develop a measure to prevent overprice increases in fertilizer, food and fuel. In particular, the unstoppable rise in fertilizer has exceeded twice as much in fertilizer over the last year, according to various types. Today, the Mazot's refinery costs $1.535 and is sold to our citizens for $4. When the AKP came to power in 2002, it was 1 lt diesel 1 TL, 1 kg wheat 30 Kurusins. So our producer, who sells 3.5 kilograms of wheat, was buying 1 lt of diesel. The AKP has ruled the country for 10 years, with 1 kilogram of wheat 60 cents, 1 lm diesel 4. Now our producer, who sells 8 kilograms of wheat, is able to buy 1 lt diesel. Although 2012 was seasonally dry, the wheat stalks did not grow large enough, and the price of hay has increased since the amount of hay was very low during harvest time. In 2011, the straw, which was 30 cents, increased by 333% to 90 cents. This is because the hay is expensive, and the manufacturer is in a difficult situation, and the immediate measure must be taken. Oranges, tangerines, lemons, grapefruits are either at a price or at a branch. The farmer, who can't even market his labor product at the price of its cost, is desperately putting his product on the road. Turkey is among the top 10 countries in the production of around 3.6 million tonnes annually and the production of world citrus. Only 3/1 of this production is exported, and the remaining part remains in the domestic market. In order to increase our country's competitiveness with other countries in the export of narcissistics, incentives per ton must be brought to an adequate point for producers. In the livestock industry, the arrival of meat and animal imports from abroad has forced our villager to sell female animals as a result of rising bait prices. Selling the female animal means selling the future of the manufacturer. The Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is responsible. The Minister of Agriculture didn't give our village enough support and made it miserable because of the meat and animals imported from abroad. The livestock industry is at an end. It is the 98th and 99thth of the Constitution and 106th of the TBMM Council on Food, Agriculture and Animalism Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker, who brought Turkish agriculture and livestock industry to an end and has troubled our farmers and producers with wrongly applied agricultural policies. We demand and demand that the geneor be opened in accordance with the matter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Omer Dinçer, who was appointed Minister of National Education on 07.07.2011, has had many negative effects in the national education community, both material and spiritual. As he could not manage a ministry such as the Ministry of National Education, in many ways he destroyed inputs and outputs in education. Problems have continued to arise in running systems such as the FATHIH project and the 4+4+4 model, the lack of safety of schools, the loss of the reputation of a sacred profession of teaching, the increasing number of children involved in crime, and many such problems have continued to grow under snowballs. We demand and demand the opening of the geneor under Article 106 of the Constitution, 98th and 99th, in accordance with the Articles 106th of the Constitution, on the additional grounds of Mr. Omar Dinçer, who is responsible for raising our country's next generation. Zühal Topcu Münir Kutluata Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Oktay Özturk Alim Light Atila Kaya Mehmet Şandir Bulent Belen Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Seyfetttin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Enver Erdem Bahattin Sugar Stops Ali Torlak Oktay Vural Mehmet Erdoğan Sadir Durmaz Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Lütfü Türkkan Emin Haluk Ayhan On 7:07.2011, the appointment of Omar Dinçer, the Minister of National Education, lasted nearly a year and a half. His report card isn't exactly good for him at this time. In the first place, the Agency's Law has been changed and many bureaucrats in the ministry have been dismissed based on the authority vested in by this law. "A minister should work with people he trusts and appreciates his equipment." It's been said. Of course, it is not expected for a minister to know everything (especially in education). Management is a team business, and the minister's shortcomings must be completed by the team. At the coming point, it seems that the situation is not as it should be. "I'll know, I'll do it, I'll tell you, I'll explain." His approach is at stake. The process has opened to debate the accuracy of the elections and its monomania. The reality of a ministry such as the MEB can't be ruled by one man, can't be achieved by one person. What a contradiction this is that he has cancelled the deployment of a large number of his appointed group presidents. Since his first day in office, he's declared his insecurities to the National Education community on every platform, destroying the motivations of all the employees of the training. The last thing that happened was that the teachers who were not overrated and appointed were like doves, and that the sacred profession was a disgrace to the community. With its unprepared projects during its ministry, (especially the 4+4+4 model), the entire community, especially teachers and students, has been distressed. With the transfer of to the 4+4+4 model in training, the classroom teachers, especially reduced to a norm surplus, suffered severe losses. In addition to the victims of the teachers, the problems with the appointment have deepened. Teachers' annual working hours averaged 1675 hours in OECD countries, while teachers in Turkey work 141 hours more than the OECD average for 1816 hours. In addition to the transfer of 4+4+4 in education, children in the pre-school age from 60-71 months to elementary school, classrooms are overcrowded, elective classes, and so on and so on. Because of numerous problems, teachers' annual hours have been significantly increased since this year. The absence of pre-school education eliminates the equality of opportunity when it prevents the children of poor and less educated families from being on the same level as the children of families with good education and income. TECHNIC data shows that the number of children involved in the crime is increasing day by day. In the last four years, the number of juvenile offenders has increased by 36%. In 2011, 84 thousand children were reported guilty. These crimes have spread to the schools, leading to students and teachers. In this period of the ministry, no serious work has been found for their rehabilitation. Mistakes made in exams, missing questions, stealing questions, both discredited state institutions and ended the hopes of young people who were Turkey's future, extinguished their future. "The majority of our normal citizens support us. Look, we don't want to, but the citizens are willing to send their 60-month-old child to school. Part of the criticism is from the PKK. We'll take our children to school at an early age, teach them Turkish, prepare them for life. Those who say, 'Don't even get reports' are PKK supporters. He wants to prevent it. And the secularist people are uncomfortable with this reform." When he was stuck with his public actions with his expressions, he expressed the sensitivity of society and directed to divide and divide society. We demand and demand the opening of the geneor under Article 106 of the Constitution, 98th and 99th, in accordance with the Articles 106th of the Constitution, on the additional grounds of Mr. Omar Dinçer, who is responsible for raising our country's next generation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We present the opening of the constitution on behalf of Science Industry and Technology Ministry, which has increased the country's dependence on imports and has reduced the competitiveness of the national industry by making our country a paradise of foreign products, and on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, which is not working on domestic production in our country, and on behalf of Science Industry and Technology Minister Nihat Ergun, 98th and 99th, under Article 106th Amendments of the TBMM Administration. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's current average total of $316.4 billion from 2002 to the end of April 2012 -- 10 years and 4 months -- is 316.4 billion. To see what the magnitude of this current deficit means, we just have to remember that our national income in 2011 (in GDP) is $770 billion. The trend of increase in cari transaction deficits is reflected in the production plane by increasing import dependency, import input rates. As industrial production and exports grow, more and more value and employment are being carried out of the country. The most important reason for this current deficit is our country's production and foreign capital and the growth policy based on hot money. According to TÜİK data, 15.4% of the total production and service production in Turkey is carried out by foreign capital-controlled companies. In some countries, 2.6% of the production is controlled by Germany, 2.3% by the United States and 2% by France. Strangers are a certain judge in two sectors; their share in tobacco is 90.4%; their share in medicine is 51 percent. The foreign share in the automotive, telecom and computer sector goes to 50%. There's a total of nine sectors that exceed 30 per cent of the foreign share. Strangers, including insurance and banking, have huge weights in 11 sectors. Foreign initiatives bring Turkey more mid - high technology than "high technology." The ratio of low-tech initiatives is twice as high-tech. These data show that the main elements of global competition, such as RD, technology development, innovation, must be first on the agenda of the Turkish industry. The speed of steps that will bring our industry closer to its goal of sustainable competitiveness has become more important than ever during our critical period. With public and private sector co-operation, Turkey must successfully overcome this difficult period in the global economy and be among the winners of change. The easiest way to predict the future is to shape it. The basis of industrialization, given the ability to produce information, is certain that technology transfers and development and industrialization will not be possible. Despite Turkey's self-producing and contributing to industrialisation and national economy, science and technology are closely concerned with all parts of society, science and technology are known to determine the country's position and future in the international arena as well as the country's international arena, the Science Industry and Technology Ministry remains insensitive and does not provide solutions. The production industry, which manufactures intermediary goods, has been expensively used by economic policies, pays high taxes on employment, and the interest of its loan is high, while the Ministry of Science Industry and Technology has not acted as measures and stimulis. While we can't compete with domestic products produced in the world markets, our low-cost policy has not been disruptive about the explosion of imports, making it attractive to buy from the outside. It is the implementation of policies that facilitate our industry's efforts to open the way for growth based on service sectors, not for foreign investments in our country; It increases the country's dependence on imports and reduces the competitiveness of the national industry by making our country a paradise of foreign products, and does not work on domestic production in our country, and all of which are politically responsible for Minister of Science Industry and Technology Nihat Ergun, 98th and 99thth of the Constitution, 106th of the TBMM Charter. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we submit the opening of the Gensor on the basis of its provisions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The meeting dates of the clients will be determined later by the Council of Counsellors and will be submitted to your votes.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0007par0393	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0394	Sir, we had 12 general consultation motions. These were not presented to the General Assembly. However, according to the Civil Charter, they must be presented to the General Assembly. I mean, we gave the presidency the general interview, the generic motions together.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0009par0395	Mr. President, we don't understand what our Group President is saying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0396	About the general meeting...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0010par0397	We'll turn on the microphone, Mr. Group, if our VP sits down. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0399	Mr. President, sir, we have a general request for a meeting with the motions for the geneorization. As it is known, these general negotiations demands must first be submitted to the General Assembly, but they have not been submitted today. Therefore, in their presentations, the president has to make a statement as to why, in a way, MPs from the National Party of Action have not submitted these motions on behalf of the group... This is clearly against the Civil Code, and it is against procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0010par0400	Yes, Mr. Vural. He's been appointed president, but he's lined up in order to arrive, so he's lined up to be read three times a day. The future will be read, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0402	Sir, no, he doesn't have that kind of discretion.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0011par0403	There's a sentence called "immediately."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0404	You will present it to the General Assembly immediately...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0011par0405	It's in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0406	...so, please, as the General Assembly's presentations, I'd like to request that this mission be carried out under the Civil Code. Right away...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0011par0407	That's what the Civil Code says, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0408	The Civil Charter...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0012par0409	But Mr. Vural, not just today, but there are many jobs that have been given before, they've been lined up. I don't know why it's a problem today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0410	No, sir. You read the parliamentary research motions...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0012par0411	Okay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0412	...so there's no such thing as an immediate decree on the reading of Parliament's research motions. Well, in that case, our general consultation demands need to be met immediately, because we're going to ask for them to be put on the agenda. Not without being read. Thus, by not reading it, we are prevented from bringing it up, and our right to control is blocked.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0012par0413	Now, there are several parliamentary investigations and general consultation motions submitted to the Parliamentary presidency. Three motions are read every day, Mr. Vural, from the past to this side. Now I really don't understand why it's a problem.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0414	The problem is, because according to the Civil Code, it says immediately. The purpose of this matter is not to fall in line immediately...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0012par0415	But so far, it's always the same...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0416	You can do that about the research proposals...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0012par0417	Okay, so far, it's a three-by-three lineup.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0418	Sir, in line...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0012par0419	There's no difference here, there's no exception in today's practice.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0008par0420	No, sir. The purpose of the general discussion is set here in the Civil Charter, which says immediately. I mean, how's that gonna happen right now? It needs to be presented to the General Assembly. You need to read general discussion requests as clearly as you have read the questions today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0013par0421	Article 102.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0014par0422	Mr. President, Article 102 will be placed on the immediate list of papers...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0013par0423	Read the rest, Mr. Nurettin.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0014par0424	So it would be a comment if you immediately considered the expression a rhetorical statement.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0013par0425	Read the rest.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0014par0426	In terms of Lafzi, the statement is immediately taken into the list of papers that come immediately.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0013par0427	Sir, no, there's no dots, commas. (It says that it is offered to the General Assembly.)
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0014par0428	No, it's a comma about action, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0013par0429	It is taken away immediately, - comma - it is presented to the General Assembly. It says.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0014par0430	The comma is about action; it is announced to the General Assembly and the Government. So it's announced to the government immediately. It's not announced to the General Assembly. Okay, well, we're just going with the non-verbals here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0013par0431	But you will announce it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0014par0432	We'll comment on that later, Mr. President. So, once you're on the incoming list, right after you're on it, it's okay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0015par0433	Sir, the third joke of Article 104 of the Civil Code is: The provisions for the opening of the MEclis investigation apply to the opening of the general discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0434	In its opening, he says, sir, he doesn't say in its spray, he says in the decision to open it. Its opening is separate, its filtering is separate.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0015par0435	The sixth part of the agenda is already being processed together.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0436	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0015par0437	The sixth part of the agenda is being processed together.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0438	Yeah, when it's decided to open.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0015par0439	No, and if you look at the sixth part of the agenda, it's already being processed together.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0440	What's on agenda six, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0015par0441	The whole process works the same way.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0442	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0015par0443	If you look at the sixth order of the agenda, it's already being processed together.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0444	What's on agenda six, sir? There's five, there's no six.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0017par0445	He's talking about that hatch, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0446	If these pre-interviews are decided to open, that's fine. You can't have a pre-interview until the Council of Parliament has decided.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0018par0447	Mr. President, I need you to make the announcement.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0448	It's a hearing process, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0018par0449	This is a general interview request, not a research motion.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0019par0450	Sir, if asked, it would immediately be announced to the General Assembly and to the government.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0451	Sir, general discussion is an important means of control. This needs to be known by the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0020par0452	Mr. Vural, the word "opening" here is a word that covers the entire process. If you'd like, I can argue about the attitude. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0454	I beg you, I'm in general...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0020par0455	No, okay, let's work this out together, so I'm just saying. I'm not saying no.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0016par0456	I say, "Please, don't complete the presentations, read our general requests, which we're going to ask for to be taken into consideration tomorrow." It needs to be read. It's going to be announced that I'm going to ask him to be brought up, maybe I'm going to propose.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0021par0457	Here, the obligation is immediately, in the General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit01spe0020par0458	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0020par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, it appears that the General Assembly has not been educated and has not been notified immediately since the proposals for the general meeting were submitted to the presidency in the past period. For example, in the 21st term (8/18), the main General Assembly was presented to the presidency on 01/3/2001, which was read to the General Assembly on 22/3/2001, and sent to the Prime Minister on 27/3/2001. Another example is the general discussion directive (8/20) in the same period (8/20). This motion was submitted to the presidency on 25/9/2001, and was studied at the General Assembly on 09/10/2001 and sent to the Prime Minister on 12/10/2001. Similarly, similar practices are seen at other times.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0006	So, have they been sent to the Prime Minister now, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0020par0007	I already explained that Mr. Vural wasn't sent. I've just been asked, I told you it wasn't sent.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0008	Well, Mr. President, it would appear there will be no change in your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0020par0009	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0010	Now, according to Article 104 of the Civil Code, you seem to be placing this matter immediately on the papers that came in on Monday (November 5th), but it's not in the papers that came in on Monday (November 5th).
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0020par0011	No, that's right.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0012	No.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0020par0013	That's right, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0014	Well, then there's no point in...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0020par0015	It's taken the day it's read, sir, the day it's read.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0016	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0020par0017	It's being picked up on the day it's read.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0018	Right away, then...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0023par0019	He says I told him to.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0020	Now, Mr. Nurettin has just said that it must be taken to the papers that come immediately.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0024par0021	Mr. Vural, our earlier statements include that, so the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has the same practice so far. So today...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0022	Now, speaking in your favor...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0025par0023	He says I said it, my explanation.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0024	Mr. President, isn't it against the Civil Code that this isn't taken to the papers immediately?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0026par0025	Mr. Vural, there hasn't been any different practice on this subject today, and I want to tell you about it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0026	Well, I'm asking the same question: you just gave me samples. Aren't these general interviews or parliamentary research requests on the papers that came in immediately?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0027par0027	None taken.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0028	If it wasn't taken, then...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0028par0029	No offense taken, yes.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0030	How could it not be taken?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0028par0031	After it's read, I mean, with the reading.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0032	Sir, would that happen?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0029par0033	No, Mr. President, it's wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0034	That's not gonna happen, is it? That's just an agenda.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0035	Unfortunately, the same practice so far applies to them in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0036	Mr. President, that's the issue of the agenda, the matter of the agenda. Unread...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0037	Besides, I've already explained in my statement that you can bring it with the group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0038	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0039	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0040	I'm talking about the practice of the President, and I'm saying... look, the Civil Code is open, it says: it's published in the papers that come in immediately. Isn't it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0041	Mr. Vural, I'm saying the same thing, and I'm saying that it hasn't been done immediately, in all applications, in this manner.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0042	No, sir, you haven't been reported...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0043	I mean, there's nothing different about it today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0044	No, no, no, no, you didn't say anything about the paper coming in.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0045	Yeah, about the papers coming in, about the papers we were talking about.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0046	No, you told me about the report, you told the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0047	You asked, and I answered immediately...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0048	Sir, you've given the General Assembly and the government the deadlines, and you haven't filed a statement.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0049	Mr. Vural, the application is taken to the papers that came the day it was read in the General Assembly, and then, yes, it's reported to the government.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0022par0050	Is that a thing? Mr. President, is that possible, dear? The Civil Code... there's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0051	It's the same thing we're arguing about, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0031par0052	Then he informs the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0053	I'm afraid that's the rule, from the past...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0054	Take a good look. Mr. President, we're saying... when we're arguing about not being read, now you're saying you can't even write on paper.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0056	I'm not saying I won't, Mr. Vural, please... why do you say that?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0057	So you say.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0058	No, I'm not saying that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0059	So you say.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0060	My words are clear.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0061	So you say.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0030par0062	This is not an event that was practiced today in the 24th term; in the 23rd term, in the 22nd term, in the 21st term, in the 20th term, no matter how far you go back.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0063	Mr. President, no, no, no, it's not like that. Look, there was an argument about this -- because it wasn't printed on the memos that came in, and then you printed on the papers that came in, and then it could be discussed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0033par0064	Look, Mr. President, the procedure...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0065	That's not true. You'll have to print it on the papers immediately.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0033par0066	There's nothing changing, including an application list of papers that came in, as it used to be.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0067	It's not on the paper.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0033par0068	It is the same as it is now in the 21st century.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0034par0069	It's on the paper that comes the day it's read.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0070	Look, Nurettin Bey, you said: "You have to get it on the papers immediately. " Here are the papers from Monday, they don't exist.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0033par0071	Look, what I'm saying is that in the 21st term, in the 20th term, it's the same as it is today. I'm saying it's included in the list of incoming papers.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0072	Mr. Canikli, you just said from the podium, "It's the papers that come immediately." Are you backing out now? Are you backing out?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0033par0073	Mr. Vural, that's my opinion, that's my opinion.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0035par0074	Yes, Mr. Vural, thank you. The subject has been explained enough.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0075	Sir, you can't embargo our proposals!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0035par0076	No, no embargoers, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0077	You don't publish it in the papers, so you're actually limiting our control authority, ignoring it. You're gonna have to press the incoming papers. This is an executive decree of the Civil Code. You said something about reading and not reading, but you're gonna have to put it on paper right now. Why are you hiding it from people? Why are you hiding it from the council?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0035par0078	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Nothing's hiding from people. Whatever the past is, it's going on.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0080	It's not about the past. In the papers, show me, when it comes...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0035par0081	The meeting dates of the clients will be determined later by the Council of Counsellors and will be submitted to your votes. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I will have you read and vote...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0083	Mr. President, I'd like to discuss the procedure regarding the coming papers.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0035par0084	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0032par0085	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0036par0086	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0037par0087	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0038par0088	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0039par0089	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0040par0090	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0041par0091	But if we take a word against it and everyone speaks against it, I mean, when the presidency is being criticised here...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0040par0092	Mr. President, don't mortgage our will. I raised it against him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0041par0093	No, Mr. Günal, why are you calling? I can see that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0040par0094	No, why are you yelling? Why do you decide what we're going to talk about? We wanted to say "against you."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0041par0095	But when it's done, it's meant to be intimate. I mean, we have a right to say that, so don't mind if I do. You're going out...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0040par0096	Yes, we see intimacy! You just fill in the line and say thank you and don't say anything to downers, do you?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0042par0097	You're in no position to test the sincerity of lawmakers!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0041par0098	Yes, I'm writing in favor, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0040par0099	I picked it up first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0042par0100	How do you test the congressman's sincerity?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0041par0101	You're testing the sincerity of the presidency...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0042par0102	You two be sincere first!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0043par0103	Take a look at the transcripts, I made a promise first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0041par0104	Yes, other than that, after Mr. Günal?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0044par0105	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0045par0106	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0046par0107	I asked for it in the first place, look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0047par0108	This group wanted it first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0048par0109	Mr. President, four friends asked this group first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0049par0110	Yes, Mr. Nurettin. What else? Yes, it's Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP who's in favor of the procedural debate.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0050par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all. Now, in the previous discussion, our friends wanted to make sure that this practice was actually run this way from the beginning.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0051par0117	It's not clear, Mr. Nurettin. There are other applications, I'll find them and bring them back.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0050par0118	Allow me. As a matter of fact, there's been a break.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0052par0120	You've got two, you've got two.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0050par0121	Sir, two, so...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0053par0122	I mean, in reverse applications...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0052par0123	They found two in 13 years.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0050par0124	Because you know the general negotiation motion isn't a very common mechanism.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0053par0125	Mr. President, what are you going to say when we bring in the reverse apps?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0050par0126	That's exactly why. It's become very clear that the same practice has been going on since previous times, the way I was trying to express it, and to confirm it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0053par0127	That's not true. I'll be right back with a sample of the inverse applications.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0050par0128	There's no hesitation here, there's no discussion. So no new practice has been launched in the last 22, 23, or the last 23, period. There's no problem there. Not only on this subject, but there is no different application for the purchase of the paper that comes in at the same time. The same practice has been carried out in the past as well as in the present. There's no difference, there's no difference, there's no change. What I'm saying is, look, the expression "technical" there does not correspond with the adoption of the president after he's been read. These are two different things. Why is it different? Because the content that comes from the paper is different, that's why. I mean, it's actually on every day's paper when you're President of the House.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0054par0129	He won't take it, he won't take it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0050par0130	He's actually taking the verb, look, he's actually taking it. That's my interpretation, my opinion. No. But technically, he gets it after it's read.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0054par0132	Is that right? Is it taken after it's read?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0050par0133	But what I'm saying is, even if it's put in that order, it means it's being put on the incoming list of papers. That's my interpretation, that's my opinion. So this condition in Article 102 is therefore fulfilled in this way, immediately, with the expression "Preparation," which is in order to be presented to the presidency or to the General Assembly -- that is the important thing -- is to take the order of operations. This is carried out immediately by the word ▪ Therefore, in this sense, there is no contradiction at what Mr. Vural just said. There's no contradiction in my explanations either. So the meaning of what the President puts on it, the meaning of what he puts on the paper that comes in, is different from what I mean. What I mean is that it's just a line-up, it's a line-up. It's already being done, but it's on the list of papers that come after being presented to the General Assembly, after it's been read, in its interpretation, in its meaning -- exactly, in its meaning. That's the way it is. At this point, the implementation of the presidency is correct. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0055par0137	Thank you. It's Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0056par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0055par0140	Mr. Vural, Mr. Günal asked for it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0057par0141	I'll hand over my turn to Mr. Vural, and then I'll take my word.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0055par0142	Oktay Vural, İzmir MP, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0058par0143	Thank you. Mr. President, of course, as the National Movement Party, of course, I would like to express on this occasion that the better it would be for our nation if a bill that would destroy the people's right to choose by the city's municipal law, eliminates their village, and extends the way for regional governance. Therefore, I would like to ask that a work that is bad not be discussed in the Parliamentary General Assembly. This issue is directly under the command of the Civil Code. He says in the Civil Charter: the request for a general meeting will be placed on the list of immediately arriving papers. He said just now that the word "Nurettin Canikli" is about the papers that are coming in, but it is not about the presentation to the General Assembly. Now, Mr. Canikli, what you're saying now is either wrong or wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0059par0146	I explained, Mr. Vural, I explained.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0058par0147	So it needs to be put on the papers immediately. Why the papers? Because the lawmakers want to know what's coming or not. Look, the motions for the geneorization were taken immediately. Look, it's already taken. They took six genes right off Monday. In this regard, lawmakers' research proposals, question motions, all of which need to be taken. The congressman will know. The issue of whether or not to be taken into consideration is after the reading. There's no way to discuss an issue that isn't on the agenda. So, this is going to be on the agenda, which we're going to ask to be discussed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0060par0150	You can bring in a group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0058par0151	Can you make sure there's a meeting here before you bring up a law proposal? You can't. You can't.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0060par0152	You can bring in a counseling board group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0058par0153	You can't. You can't discuss anything that isn't on the agenda. In that sense, Mr. President said, "It wasn't published on paper immediately." What subject you just described was not published on the paper, and when was it published? How about after it's read here? He's saying right now. If it's for you right now, a year later, six months later, three months later... why shouldn't people listen to a general request for a general meeting about the shortage of non-assigned teachers? Why can't the poor farmers find out about the animals? He wants to know what the opposition is doing.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0060par0155	You may bring in a group proposal, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0058par0156	Apart from the issues that are on the agenda here, it is the duty of respect for the MP to have these general talks come to the following papers. How do these MPs know what's what? In this regard, the application is wrong. Make sure they're printed on the paper, now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Make sure it's printed immediately, and if it's not on today's agenda, Mr. President, it's not on Monday's papers. Is it on Tuesday or not? It's not on the website. We don't know what came or ended on Tuesday. No. Do the MPs know? You know what, guys? There is no parliamentary work behind closed doors. In that sense, this application is wrong. Right away, any application from the MPs must be printed on the incoming papers. I'll buy it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0164	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Ahmet Aydın who wants to speak in favor...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0062par0166	Mr. President, you need to have the transcripts examined. The promise, according to 61, is given according to the order of the request. This is clear in the reports. I wanted word before anyone else. It's a promise. You can't promise Mr. Ahmet Bey in Poland.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0167	Mr. Altay, we've written you against us.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0062par0168	No, Mr. President, I asked for word in favor. There's some paperwork here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0169	But the general practice is promised in one favour, one against.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0062par0170	Mr. President, is there anything bigger than a transcript that binds you, binds us? No.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0171	No, let's look at the reports, but the second one against...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0062par0172	Please, take a break, take a look at the transcripts. You'll see, I wanted word before anyone else. And I won't let anyone take my word for it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0173	I understand, Mr. Altay, but what do you mean, it's not understandable.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0062par0174	How?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0175	We'll call you in second place here. Against the law...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0062par0176	Mr. President, can you promise three speakers in favor, in favor?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0177	But he wanted a word in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0063par0178	How? You're giving it to the third speaker? It's my turn, we're the only ones who've changed. Mr. Oktay Vural first... didn't you just call me?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0062par0179	You can promise me two in a row. I'm in the lead. Mr. Aydın can't speak without looking at the reports, never.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0180	But it was as if I had called Mr. Vural instead of Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0064par0181	I already asked for it, sir. I'm the one who wanted to discuss the procedure, and I'm the one who called it "against you."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0065par0182	Look, please, manage properly. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0183	What do you mean, Mr. Günal?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0064par0184	Our congressman signed it off.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0065par0185	Of course, you just did. We just took our turn.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0186	Why are you taking this personally, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0065par0187	And now you're saying, "I've given it to you." What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0188	Because of an argument between you, you're running it right...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0066par0189	President, I asked for it against you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0065par0190	Yes, well... does the Deputy Leader of the Group of the AKP have the right?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0191	Mr. Vural, I mean, don't think it's going to work out so well by calling too much, so yell all you want.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0065par0192	Once a group vice president has a right? Don't you have a congressman? That's not possible.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0193	So the height of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is too high, so you can shout as loud as you want. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0067par0194	Mr. President, look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0065par0195	Mr. President, look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0196	Deal with each other, and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0068par0197	In situations like this, you have to look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0065par0198	I raised my hand against him, and he raised his hand against him. Lehte, our friend here has moved it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0199	Why are you projecting your differences into the presidency?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0065par0200	What deal? I said "against him." He said "Lehte." Talk to you where?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0069par0201	Mr. President, there's no need to argue so much. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0202	I mean, it's not the sort of thing to solve by yelling too loud, so, please, let's just calm down.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0070par0203	I'm going to speak in favor of the president, the main, the war.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0071par0204	Mr. President, what did you say?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0205	We have people watching us in the General Assembly Hall, let alone watching us on TV, so please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0071par0206	Mr. President, look, our friend, Lehte. When you said, "You're in favor of...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0207	I'll get the transcripts. I'll give you my word in favor first. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0071par0209	Look, you said...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0072par0210	Just a minute... it'll be too late, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0211	Why should it be too late, Mr. Altay? Are we gonna learn from you?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0072par0212	You can't promise in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0213	You wanted a word against it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0072par0215	No...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0073par0216	Look at the reports...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0061par0217	Let me see the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0074par0218	He didn't want to press charges. You're gonna force him to speak against you?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0075par0219	Mr. President, against me, in favor of Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0076par0220	Mr. President, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0077par0221	Mr. Altay, if there's such a thing as an "Aaib" in the middle, it's your style, your way of speaking. If there's such a thing as a shame. Why use these dirty, ugly words in Turkey's Grand National Assembly! Something that would suit a congressman!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0076par0222	How can you promise me that when I've been violated by a right here, you won't look at the transcripts? You can't, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0077par0223	Mr. Altay, there's a Clerk of your party here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0076par0224	You'll have to look at the report, Mayor, the report!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0077par0225	Please don't shout, Mr. Altay, sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0078par0226	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0077par0227	Friends, members of lawmakers, there's nothing to be done by shouting.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0078par0228	Mr. President, you said...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0079par0229	Look, look at the report, Mr. President. You yourself said: "You asked for a sign and spoke against it. "
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0078par0230	Don't speak against him. You said.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0080par0231	We'll see, okay. Why are you calling me? That's what I'm saying, we'll see.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0079par0232	Look at the report.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0078par0233	Where does my right go?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0079par0234	Does the Deputy Director of the Group have the right, every time...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0081par0235	I get it, but the report doesn't come in right away. Why are you shouting, why are you calling?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0082par0236	How do you hijack my rights? I asked for it first, look at the report.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0081par0237	I'm taking a five-minute break. I can look at the transcripts after I take a break. I'll look at the transcripts!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0083par0238	You said it yourself! You said yourself, why do you want Lehte?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0084par0239	Mr. President, I asked against you. Mr. Engin asked me to.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0085par0240	It's not right to promise this place without looking at the records, it's not appropriate to be in that chair!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0086par0241	Mr. Altay, do you understand what I'm saying, once in a while?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0085par0242	I don't understand!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0086par0243	You don't understand.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0085par0244	You won't make three promises in favor!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0086par0245	I'll take a break, take a look at the reports. I'm gonna do it again.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0087par0246	Then why is he talking? Why is the speaker standing there?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0088par0247	Why is the speaker stopping? It's over.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0086par0248	Because you wanted it against him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0088par0249	It's over...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0089par0250	It's over, speaker in favor. Three in favor...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0086par0251	If it is a matter of time, call all you want, and speak as much as you wish. You're free to go there, Mr. Altay. People are watching, people! Ah, woe, woe!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0089par0252	What does that mean?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0086par0253	It's a shame.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0090par0254	He's been talking so far, you should've let him go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0089par0255	Mr. President, can you promise me three favours?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0086par0256	I'm going to take a break, I'm going to take a break. And you call therein, and you do not hear. I'm sorry, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0089par0257	But you called the gentleman to the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0091par0258	Mr. President, do you want me to...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0089par0259	No, you don't talk, brother! Where's your speech?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0092par0260	Look at the statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit02spe0093par0261	Mr. Aydın, please sit down. I'll take a five-minute break from the merger, take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0093par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 16th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. Vural - Mr. President, I'd like to discuss procedure regarding the application of the papers. - Yes, Mr. Vural. Against Mr. Vural. Ali Rıza Özturk, Lehte. I'll read it in order. ▪ Engin Altay - Lehte. Nurettin Canikli, Lehte. Ahmet Aydýldeh, Lehte. Mehmet Günal is against him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0094par0012	Give it to me accordingly, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0093par0013	So, even though Mr. Canikli was in the fourth place, of course he spoke in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0095par0014	You were going to give me the other one if we didn't object.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0093par0015	In the 6th place, Mr. Günal, you have none. In third place, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0095par0017	One second... one second... How come I don't have one? What does it say? I wanted it first, but did you see how many are against it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0093par0019	But in the sixth place, according to the list here, respectively.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0095par0020	Wait a second... Can you look at it from here? This report of yours... when Mr. Vural said it before anyone else, I said it, one. And if he wants 10 in favor, how many people do you have against him?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0093par0022	In the 2nd place against him, that's right.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0095par0023	Well, okay. I mean, right now, you're starting over here, Mr. President, isn't that something?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0093par0024	Okay, that's a conversational solution, but you don't have to talk out loud. I've been saying it all the time, so these are the issues that are going to be solved. Lehte Ali Riza Ozturk, in line. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0096par0027	I'm handing it over to Engin Altay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0097par0028	Not the times, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0098par0029	He's not talking. I'm after him, I'm not talking. Even if he says I'm going out.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0099par0030	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Okay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0100par0031	After that, I'm in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0099par0032	No, Mr. Aydın, before you, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0101par0033	There aren't three Mr. Ahmet, look at the Charter. There's not three, there's two.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0099par0034	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Of course, you know you wanted the word in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0102par0036	I asked for a favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0099par0037	I remind you, too, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0102par0038	Mr. President, I just said there's nothing the President can do. There's been a mistake going on here for ten years. Now, from where the presidents sit, with two members of the Presidential Court next to him, they have no right to save as much as they want in this House. That's why there's a Council of Counsellors in the Civil Code, there's a Court of Presidents in the Civil Code, and they all have red plates under them, and what's the use of them? And also, there is the office of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the office of the Grand National Assembly. Now, almost all of them are law school graduates. There is, of course, a general debate, that you can't become a lawyer by graduating from law school. Now, the law is a matter of interpretation. It is also possible to interpret a written document, text, whatever it is, in various ways. As a matter of fact, Ahmet Günal had requested the last word according to the reports, but Mr. President had just made the first promise to Ahmet Günal. So from there, from where you're sitting, you can't pinpoint the event here. However... Mehmet, Mehmet. Mehmet Günal, I'm sorry. Now, Mr. President, I actually want to say this. That's probably why you're in such a hurry. At Kızılcahamam camp, the Prime Minister instructs you not to leave Ankara on 10 days. That's for you, not us. The prime minister may design the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in his own way, he may attempt to discuss it, but I can't understand why the prime minister and his ruling party's vice presidents can't even accept the work of the opposition. You're the only one in the world, in the world. You are the only one in the world, and you turn to the opposition and say, "Why are you doing your job?" What will the opposition do? Well done, how well you're doing. Is that what he's going to say? Know that even though you do nothing good -- even if you do something, the opposition is an institution that has to claim and reveal something better. In that respect, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0103par0043	You've been doing it all morning. You've been talking all morning.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0104par0044	I wish you would. Why don't you do it!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0102par0045	I always say that the majority of you here, the number of your fingers here...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0104par0046	Not the number of fingers, people, people.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0102par0047	...even if the serious vote fires once in a while, the majority of you don't give you the authority to do whatever you want. And that can never happen, you know that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what these democracies are for. Despite the majority of power, opposition... is a democracy so you don't turn it into one man's rule, democracy, monarchy, totalitarian regimes, theocratic regimes, and you get used to it, you don't like it a little bit.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0104par0050	Get used to it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0102par0051	The opposition...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0105par0052	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0102par0053	Now, just now...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0106par0054	It's over... it's over...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0105par0055	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0107par0056	The time there is on fire.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0108par0057	What Mr. Canikli just said...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0109par0058	You're violating the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0107par0059	He's standing there for two minutes and that's why. It says two minutes in front of you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0110par0060	Mr. Altay, these are all violations of the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0107par0061	Mr. President, it didn't go out, and it didn't go out for him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0110par0062	Sir, we always give you three minutes in the last argument. Five minutes by mistake; we fixed it, sir. It's always a violation of the Civil Code, sir, from beginning to end.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0111par0064	He said, "If we practice this work according to the 104...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0110par0066	Dear friends, please... Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0111par0068	I'm just saying what the Deputy Director of the Group said. He said that if we continue to do so according to 104... which is why we're supposed to follow from here... and that's why he said that we can't make law here after the opposition has given us 10 general debate motions, 50 general consultation motions. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Yeah, that's what he said. Look at the starving report.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0110par0071	Mr. Altay, there is no such procedure, but... please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0111par0072	Mr. President, I'm talking about a deadline.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0112par0073	He's got a deadline.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0113par0074	Time's up.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0114par0075	Mr. President, it says 1.59.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0115par0076	I'm just saying I've got a deadline. Friends, read 104, the Civil Code, and then you can see how right the opposition is, how right it is. There -- I always say -- two ducks raising their hands can't beat an elephant. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0116par0080	Yes, against...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0117par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0116par0082	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0117par0083	Sir, just now, Mr. Ahmet Aydın, Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group, has come up to the stand because it's the order of the order. If there's anything in favor, promise me your location, and it won't be considered rude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0118par0084	It's his discretion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0116par0085	No, let's give it to Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0117par0086	In that respect, if he has a word in his favor, he can make it happen with a warrant, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0116par0087	Yes, this is Mr. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0119par0089	Mr. President, this is not a good time to be used. People are lying and they've done the same to me.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0120par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it is clearly a violation of the Civil Code to lower the voice of the opposition, and it is not new. All you care about is this big city municipal bill coming out. You did the same thing on the commission. After you objected, you now included those 48 articles with a redaction. What if we didn't object? Sir, that's the practice. Where's the practice? You do it here many times. What happens if we violate the Civil Code once? Well, now it's written directly by the Internal Charter. Sir, this is the previous practice. When there is no objection, it is not accepted, but when there is an objection... is there not a lot of denominating time in the law? You've got a lot of lawyers talking about the group's vice presidents. There's no simultaneous precedent. If it's incomplete, it's your fault. What do you mean, right now? It means he'll be here in no time. So, what do you do now? You're taking control of the opposition so you can squeeze it out. I mean, what would you say? I don't know what you promised. So you're trying to pass more than 70 substances every seven points. Well, if we didn't object, if we hadn't argued that day at the Internal Affairs Commission, you'd have brought us in as a seven-pointer and left us here today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0121par0092	He was supposed to come in 38.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0120par0093	Yeah. That's not how it went through the subcommittee, and that's not how it went through the top commission. The guys look at it and it's 38. Do you know how he escaped, Mr. Nurettin? It was seven points, seven points. What if we didn't object? So we object that sometimes when you see your wrong, you turn around when you have to, and if there's a right here, it'll be sent right away. If it says so, it'll be published immediately. If it says so, I didn't do it before. Now do it, correct it, correct it. Is that even possible? You'll shut down the villages, you'll shut down the municipalities, then you'll turn off the TV after seven. In the darkness of Alaca, while the villagers sleep, citizens lie early in the morning to go to the field, while you force the law out. Oh, yeah? Yeah, that's not gonna happen. Don't lower our voices, don't take away our control authority, our authority to live. The Prime Minister's already taking yours, you're just raising your finger. Let us do it as opposition, and you are not authorized to do it. Therefore, do not lower the voice of this opposition.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0122par0095	We won't, we won't!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0120par0096	Give us the authority to supervise. Especially when we do so, we use our legal rights based on the Constitutional Law. I don't want him like that... Mr. President, he wrote it here. I request a review of the audio recordings. Mr. President, before anyone else, I stood up and came here, and look at the CCTV footage. That's when our co-investigators lost track. I see you're in the sixth row. Two people have already asked for a word against him. I mean, at the time, I... why do you think our friends wanted it in favor? They had to ask for it because I already asked for it. Mr. President on the line said, "Sir, why do you want it in favor?" You're speaking against him. It's in order. He confirmed it himself. Our friends didn't put it down. Look, Lehte has to take the word and speak in favor, against everyone, so while the presidency is being criticised here, he says, he goes on and on. It's at the end of the report. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, don't shut up the opposition. We'll keep saying the wrong things. He sends his regards, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0123par0103	Thank you. Members of parliament, the 51st article of the Interior Charter, which contains the list of incoming papers, has shown which jobs will be taken to the incoming papers. The jobs listed here are not listed on the day or the next date of the day of the presidency. The list of the papers that have come in also reflects the result of the process by being found in accordance with the Constitution and the Institution. Therefore, after receiving the original number, legislation and audit motions are published on the list of papers coming in. For example, the law is transferred to commissions, not immediately after its proposals and plans are submitted to the presidency, but after receiving the original number. Commission reports are taken into the following papers after the number and distribution. Parliamentary research and general consultation motions have been submitted to the General Assembly for study information, but are listed on the same date. So, there's no change in our attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0124par0106	Mr. President, you'll have to take it to the papers immediately, that's no excuse, so please correct it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0123par0107	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0124par0108	The issue of this Article 51 is a general provision. There is also another clause of the decree immediately -- please, do what is required of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0123par0109	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0124par0110	I mean, why would it bother the president to write about something?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0123par0111	No, it doesn't bother the president, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0125par0112	Is the PM bothering you?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0123par0113	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. 05.11.2012 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation headed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, is to make a formal visit to Denmark and the Netherlands to address the proceedings of Danish Parliament Speaker Mogens Lykketoft and Dutch House Speaker Anouchka Van Miltenburg, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620, under the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. 06.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 06.11.2012 Tuesday (Today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On November 2, 2012, the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament to the Grand National Assembly in order to investigate "the ongoing hunger strike and the problems of the families of prisoners," issued by Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan (at number 1732), which began in their prisons on 12.09.2012, was recommended to be read in the same joint session on Tuesday (January 6,11,2012), and to be presented before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Sırrı Sakık, MP for the Peace and Democracy Party group's proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0136	Dear friends, I salute you all. There's been an argument here for three hours, but there's not a word about our country's fundamental problems. Now, our goal is not to interfere with the work of the General Assembly while this Parliament downloads its research motions to the General Assembly. There's been a problem, and these people have been on hunger strike in prisons for fifty-six days, and we've been living together every hour, every minute, a process that's approaching death, but yesterday, after the government, its spokesman, we haven't witnessed much noise in Parliament. Yes, we find positive sounds positive. So yesterday, we find the statement made after the Council of Ministers of Ministers positive. We find the Minister of Justice's talks in Sincan. Today, again, we find the Mr. Justice Minister's meeting with Mr. President to be positive, but it shouldn't be based on pure negotiations. So we all have to listen to these people's demands. Why have these people been on hunger strike for fifty-six days? They have three demands, and we all say those demands are moral, human, conscientious. There is a request for education in the native language, a request for defence in the native language. And for a long time there's been an isolation policy in Imran, so end this isolation policy immediately, because you're committing a crime against your Constitution. And these prisoners turn around and say, "Look, you've been doing isolation policy for over a year now, but these isolation policies haven't stopped killing. From these isolation policies, 1,037 young people, children, soldiers, guerrillas, police, civilians have lost their lives. So your isolation policies are inconclusive. So open the way for negotiations and dialogue. They call it. When they do, the government clearly says... the Prime Minister's statements: there's no one on the hunger strike, no one on the death fast. The Minister of Justice's statement says: ▪668 people. Today, 707 people are on hunger strike and living on their fifty-sixth day, according to our data. Instead of solving this problem, we saw the statements we heard from Mr. Prime Minister from time to time again at the Redcahamam camp in order to move the agenda to different areas. Instead of trying to solve this problem, seek dialogue, seek negotiation, they launched a process called "Idam" with a rope in their hand, as Mr. Kilicdaroglu said earlier. My dear friends, look, this word is not true, nor is it politically correct, nor is it true in the name of the brotherhood project, if you are putting this on the agenda to execute Ocalan. In the past, when the revolutionaries were on trial, the DİSK chief was also on trial in martial law, and the prosecutor called him adadam. The late Prime Minister turns and says, "Mr. Prosecutor, you can't hang me, but you can hang my jacket. Now, at this point where Turkey comes in, it's still to discipline Kurds with execution, when it's necessary to implement a democratic solution, to execute our social tissues again, to destroy an election, to re-enter local elections, the presidential election, to re-play the nationalist waves -- as we've always said -- to destroy bridges between us, to destroy our brotherhood's law. This solution is not the right solution. Look, the commission of the Republican People's Party to prison on this hunger strike explains that one step beyond death, but we can't see your sensitivity in this matter. In particular, I address my Kurdish brothers in the region, my Kurdish MP brothers, my Kurdish brothers in the AKP; I address the conscientious people in the AKP: This problem is not only our problem, but, in the name of humanity, we invite you to stand down the killings. We, BDP, don't want a single person's nose to bleed. And we're not the ones who started this process, but we say that, with all our calls, there shouldn't be any death in this process, but our calls aren't enough, so what do you want to do about it, brothers and sisters, if there's a death, no one can get out of it... Look, Yasar Kemal says that the sons of the hunger strikers, their fathers, will be part of this struggle, so that a generation will perish, or they will die, or they will be crippled. What does Zülfü Livaneli say? It is one thing to address people's honors, dignity, honors, but it is one thing to play with these concepts. That's what the power calls for. What do the artists say? The power's temporary executive powers, please be human, listen to the prisoners, do not become prisoners of your arrogance. We're saying the same thing, don't take the victim's wife. The fields have something in common, eventually they lose and answer to the public. Now, we're living together through this much critical process. We've already brought up events here in Bursa. As for the hunger strike, they were attacked by certain groups when they went out on the street to create public opinion about the sensitivities of the families and their families. As this attack took place, the Governor of Bursa said: "Any man guilty, even my own son, I will put the cuffs on him, and I will hand him over to the police, so that everyone may know. Now, I'm calling you. Look, we have friends from the People's Republican Party and AKP. They saw all that was going on in Bursa as one. We all know who's attacking whom, and we've seen the media. Now, look at some of the signs of this group, and we can see together where they attack with sticks in their hands. Look, we see where the attack is coming from. There's another attack on Kurdish homes with the same obvious markings and a single voice. Now, here, the swings in your hands, the spinning knives... it's clear who the attack came from. Now here, they have axes in their hands... and none of them are being taken into custody, and the people who were attacked and injured are being taken into custody, and five of the victims are being arrested. Now, Mr. Governor, this is the Governor of Bursa. The architect of these attacks is you and the police under your control. If it's justice... you know, even if it's my kid, I'm gonna slap the cuffs on your hand. Here you are, caught red-handed. You know, people under your control have launched an attack on the Kurds' homes. And our congressman friends went there and saw it. They see their workplaces being destroyed, their homes being looted, and not a single person there is being taken into custody as to the people who carried out the attack. And from time to time, yes, if you step on our wire, we'll come out and say it. Sir, they threatened us. We say, "We do not threaten anyone, O government, O Governor, O Minister of the Interior, O police, if you are the perpetrators who commit and investigate the murder, if there are no perpetrators, we have only one thing left: to resist you, to resist persecution. That's what we're doing right now. When we say these things, they threaten the government. If the government doesn't protect my law, if the government doesn't protect the safety of my citizen's life and property there, then, yes, less than that, it'll be long gone by now. The government needs to come to its senses. That's not...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0127par0152	Isn't the life of the 11 - year - old who died in Şemdinli life?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0153	We don't approve of it, we don't approve of it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0127par0154	You don't say, "Finish the hunger strike." Why don't you page him here?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0155	Look, we never approve.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0127par0156	Don't let people die. Don't!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0157	Now, look, don't hide behind this. We don't approve of that either. We've said a hundred times that we're facing all kinds of violence towards human life. In Şemdinli...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0127par0159	Why don't you call the hunger strike?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0128par0160	What's he gonna do?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0161	Now, we've been calling here for days.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0129par0162	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0130par0163	Why don't you call off the hunger strike?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0164	Do not seek refuge in the event of the Shemdinite. Can you tell me what happened in Roboski?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0129par0165	Congressmans, please... Mr. Sakık, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0167	Mr. President, two more minutes...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0129par0168	I'm not; no, not like that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0129par0170	No, I don't; there's no such procedure, Mr. Sakek, you know.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0171	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0129par0172	You talk, they talk, they talk. It happens all the time. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0174	You have no justice!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0129par0175	Isn't that unfair?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0126par0176	You were the Commissioner. Roboski is a crime of humanity, and so is Shemdinli. We say the same thing, but you...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0129par0177	Mr. Sakek, please!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0131par0178	Do the call. I'm telling you, you're not doing it!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0132par0179	And why did you tell him to make the call? You page the government!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0133par0180	Well, I'll tell you what, I'll tell you...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0134par0181	Mr. Sakık, sit down and talk from there, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0133par0182	I'm talking to you with documents. So if there's a bomb going off, if that bomb goes off, isn't that the life in Bursa? It's a conscience!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0135par0184	Come, teacher, come.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0134par0185	In favor of the group proposal, Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0136par0187	Against you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0134par0188	Correction, anyone who wants a word against you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0137par0189	Mr. President, I have made a pledge by the Peace and Democracy Party Assembly Group against the group's proposal for the opening of parliamentary investigation of Articles 98 of the Constitution to investigate the problems of the prisoners and their families that have begun in prisons. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation. At the beginning of my words, I thank all those who have come to power through the elections held on 3 November 2002, and have served our country and our beloved nation from that day until now, to remove all obstacles between the state and the nation, to rule over the state that serves the nation, rather than the state that serves the state, I thank the staff, especially our Prime Minister, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I'm also making it clear that as the AK PARTY staff, as long as we continue to carry on carrying the spirit of August 14, 2001, we will celebrate many more decades with our beloved nation. When we examine the inside of the group's proposal, the so-called unlawful incarceration of Abdullah Ocalan, who was convicted at the Imralı F Type F Closed Execution Institution, which the prisoners of the PKK, the PKK, the PKK in the execution institutions, the KCK terrorist organization, have issued to the criminal execution institutions, has begun with a hunger strike that has nothing to do with conditions of health, security and freedom for negotiations to begin; the alleged denial and destruction policies of military operations, which have nothing to do with Kurdish identity and Kurdish penal institutions such as the right to education in Kurdish and Kurdish native language. When the demands of convicts and prisoners are considered, not all of the reasons they're putting forward are related to their own position. None of these demands are relevant to the personal situation and conditions of the prisoners. It is possible to view all of these demands as political and ideological demands. Again, it's a game to drag death to the outside for ongoing political accounts based on blood. The reasons leading to the hunger strike are not the reasons of the government. The terrorist group is the trigger for these strikes. If they are sincere, let the BDP authorities rise and demonstrate their sincere will to end the hunger strike. We, as a nation, will see the sincerity of the BDP authorities as soon as they make this call. Mr. President, good lawmakers, when the basic demands of the hunger strikers are considered, there is no logical, legal, and no conscientious basis for the hunger strike for these reasons. Why not? Abdullah Ocalan, a prisoner in an Imra F-type high-security prison, is a person sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment. For the past two or two years, Abdullah Ocalan has been serving his sentence with prisoners in the same position. In addition, the prisoner has the opportunity to meet with his relatives whenever he wants. To do so, his relatives will either make demands or he will. Turkey is a state of law, and everyone has the same rights. For him, whatever the law requires, it is also available to Ocalan. Second: the demand for the end of alleged destruction and denial policies. Turkey is the EC PARTY that ended any policy of denial since 2002, removing custody, making peace between the state and the nation. For more than ten years, both language and culture have been eliminated by the Constitution, law and administrative measures in the field of human rights and almost all denial and rejection policies. Today, Kurdish is being spoken in Turkey, it is being learned, it is being broadcast on radio and television, and it is available to speak in the main language in prisons. The AK PARTY governments have so far put in their will to destroy any policy of rejection and denial, and that's how it's going to be. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as of today the terrorist organization continues to shed blood without civil - military, Kurdish - Turkish discrimination, and has made it a goal. There's no point in people talking about peace, brotherhood, and human rights, who are not reactive to the fires that have been extinguished by the terrorist organization's bloody attacks. The Kurdish Turk is part of these killings, which do not condemn the killings committed against innocent people without calling them civilians, and clearly do not distance themselves from terrorism.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0138par0196	Tell me if you blame Roboski.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0137par0197	I address the parents of those who are on hunger strike from this grand bench...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0138par0198	What do you think of Roboski?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0137par0199	Don't use your children for someone's dirty purposes.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0139par0200	That's what the Prime Minister said before you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0137par0201	They want to build a future for you and for your suffering. While they don't send innocent Kurdish citizens' children to school, they make their own children study at the best colleges in the country and abroad. We offer it to our nation's discretion. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our government has done its part to end the hunger strike, and will continue to do so. When the human soul is in the middle, everyone must contribute sincerely to the solution. Parliament research commissions are a permanent commission. However, the work of the Human Rights Commission, which continues to work under the roof of parliament and includes the Subcommittee for Review of Prisons, continues. The allegations that are subject to the motion are issues that can be investigated by this Commission, so we are against the group proposal. I hereby salute your delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0140par0205	Where did your kids go to school, for God's sake? Where did your kids go to school? It's a sin! It's a sin! You're white, aren't you?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0141par0206	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal from Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0142par0209	Mr. President, we are facing a hunger strike involving hundreds of people since September 12th, which is fifty-six days, and this strike is still a life-threatening strike. Who is responsible for bringing matters to this point? We saw the Prime Minister today at the group meeting, and he says we have no responsibility. The events are the opposite, responsible for the events, the Justice and Development Party, and especially the Prime Minister himself. My dear friends, look at the policies that AKP has been implementing in the Kurdish problem so far -- one forward, two backs, two backs, one back; sometimes one back, one back; sometimes they don't know what they're doing, they don't know what they're doing, they're conflicting, they're inconsistent. These policies are the basis of such a hunger strike today. These policies are oportunist policies. AKP's policies are opportunistic, opportunistic policies with an index for election. So these policies are policies that cause constant disappointments. We're talking about a policy that promises to the PKK that it can't keep -- in Oslo, in other places, we don't know -- that pumps hope, but constantly creates disappointments behind it. In Habur, you will violate the law and the judiciary, the independent judiciary, and this time you will start ACK operations on reactions. I mean, how can such an understanding, such a discrepancy be defended? On the one hand, the Prime Minister himself will say "Mr. Ocalan"; and after that, you will arrest people for saying "Mr. Ocalan"; and you will sentence elected mayors as prisoners, even though they have no doubts about escape in any way. These unjust arrests, these people who are constantly driven to despair, how are they going to do it? One, you're going to turn terror on because you're a power that constantly creates hopes and disappointments. It turns terror on, which you've turned on since you arrived. Second, you cause these kinds of desperate strikes to lead people to demand a right over their own bodies. So these zigzac policies are directly responsible for these hunger strikes. So he's the Prime Minister himself. Of course, the strikes, the political... so, the AKP, now argues, these are political demands. Of course, it will be political; your dominant political, your dominant lawlessness, will be political in return. My dear friends, a second issue: not only the KCK cases, but actually the KCK and Ergenekon, include the Sledgehammer, include the Room TV, even Izmir Metropolitan Municipality trials.; They show the unity of the opposites in Turkey. So what's the common ground that looks like the opposite, but actually the common ground? The common ground is lawlessness; the common ground is that power uses judgment as a weapon. The common basis is that his arrest is actually turned into a judicial execution. You see a similar logic in all of them, and that logic actually goes with a double standard. On the one hand, you will leave the prisoners in the Hezbollah case, and he will go like this, waving his hands, and at the Lighthouse, you will release six prisoners, citing their lengths of imprisonment, as an example of full discrepancy and double standard practice, and on the other hand, you will keep people inside, not knowing when this detention period will be over, including the chosen ones among them. In fact, this lack of law has become a business card for the AKP, which is also called injustice. The AKP has been the basis of injustice and unlawfulness. Even the Lighthouse case is just an example, the prosecution of the Lighthouse prosecutors alone is an example of this. My dear friends, another matter: as much as the responsibility of these strikes, it shows us that its unresolvedness belongs to the ruling party. So imagine a Prime Minister making fun of it, and it's never a hunger strike, and there's one person in it, and the others are eating on a hunger strike. So a power is expected to have a conscience first. I mean, I don't know what I do, how I convince people to stop doing that. It had to be. In fact, he did not do so, but he took people's demands in mockery, and acted in a debauched manner. I mean, now, of course, what a diet this is, what a sauerkraut. Now they want to bring in a substance associated with the right to defend in the native language. Well, I mean, it's been the matter of demand all along. From the very beginning, you've already made this KCK case this way, so with these conflicting policies, you've brought this political demand to the agenda yourself. Well, now, with a suggestion like that, I think you're coming up with that kind of preparation. Really, what a diet, what a sauerkraut. I mean, you haven't done some of the things that can be done yet. So, is there a demand for Imralı, is there a isolation, is there a negotiation embargo? Well, you could've solved it, you could've solved it from day one. If so, you're not doing it. My dear friends, insensitivity to human life is the last thing a power can do. A government is responsible for the lives of those who are in prison, primarily for those who are in prison. It's one of the most important evidence that a government does not do its duty to condemn these people to a process where they may be crippled, even if they don't die, without looking for a solution by the end of the day. My dear friends, the Kurdish problem has so far made the problem more inconsistencies, incoherent, and opportunistic. In the 2009 elections -- in the 2010 referendum -- and in the 2011 general elections -- it is not expected that a ceasefire would be part of the solution of a government that actually uses it as its own election success as an instrument for election opportunism. When he can't fill in a project he calls "Democratic expansion," he won't even mention it to the main opposition party, while he is not part of a government solution that has discussed his projects in Oslo, which he hasn't talked to us about, which he has failed to mention, and has also screwed up in Habur. The location of the solution is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our request is of greater importance, righteousness and meaning in these conditions. AKP's unprincipled politics pushed Turkey further into the abyss of terror. For some time, the aggressive policy against Syria has laid the groundwork for the internationalisation of the Kurdish problem and has brought Turkey to a new threshold to become the target of extreme terrorism. Today in Turkey -- look, it's the founding date of November 6th -- students at universities, meanwhile protesting at Aegean University. You also have a plan to change the CEC, and they are protesting against the SEC. What has your power done? Your government entered university campuses, again granted pepper gas to hundreds of students, and again detained them. My dear friends, what kind of democracy is this? Let our children, your children, our children, express themselves freely. What is this fear? What is this insufferability? If you want to work things out, the first thing you do is learn to respect human rights and freedom. A power learning to respect human rights and freedom -- which is a learning process -- but we're facing a problem that hasn't been learned in ten years -- a power learning to respect human rights and freedoms, learning to do more than EU progress reports, but opening Turkey's path to democratic rights and freedom. The AKP's ruling power, unfortunately, has thus far failed in this regard. In Turkey, hundreds of students were arrested during the AKP period, hundreds of people entered prisons, journalists were arrested, and as you can see, Turkey's prisons are on the verge of a new drama with hunger strikes. So I spoke in favor of the motion presented by the BDP, and I want to say that I am in favor of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0143par0221	Thank you. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party proposal against the group.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0144par0223	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the very valuable lawmakers, the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party, which is under the 19th Amendment. The group proposal they wanted to bring up today was discussed and rejected here on the ongoing hunger strike in prisons twice last week, the same issue was brought up again today. And we want the people in the prison on hunger strike to end it. Yesterday, our Deputy Prime Minister, Bkent Arinc Bey, declared: "Stop at once." We ask the council to stop those who are involved in this hunger strike in the prisons, which is concerned for their own health, in the sense that they are no longer an instrument of other people's political interests. Of course, the government is taking steps, and they want to be rewarded with good intentions. We'll bring up today's agenda with our group proposal for the Metropolitan City Law. Therefore, I say we disagree with the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal, with respect, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0145par0228	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0146par0229	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0145par0230	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0146par0231	Mr. President, during the Minister's speech, I mean, right now, he has made accusations that have implicated both our first Minister and our first Minister group, who spoke on behalf of the AKP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0145par0232	What did he say that you were under suspicion, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0146par0233	There have been hints that the hunger strike was ordered by the BDP and that the BDP had not called, that the hunger strike would continue, and I would like to give him an answer.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0145par0234	So you're against it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0146par0235	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0145par0236	Here you go. I promise you three minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0146par0240	Mr. President, we've been bringing up a very important issue on the agenda of Congress since last week. The sound of a solution from here is we're trying to catch a voice that comes up with reason, approach with logic, approach with common sense, but unfortunately with the same texts as memorized, there's a number of accusations being made here, with some text that doesn't represent the general idea of the AK PARTY group, and that doesn't represent the general opinion of the general group, so to speak, there's a search for a political team of interests. Look, the problem is, let's be clear: our political prisoners inside decided this act of hunger strike of their own free will, and they're doing it of their own free will. Whether it's an empty call from the BDP, whether it's from the AKP, whether it's from the PKK, whether it's from the KCK, it's not going to respond in any way, we've said it over and over again. And in our meetings at the Ccezahouses, these friends want us to express it openly, to inform the public the truth. So we need to avoid the rhetoric that provokes such a number of different arguments here. The problem is: A war policy is to put aside a concept of liquidation, and there is a scream in the Kurdish issue about opening the way for a negotiation and dialogue process, and we all need to look after it. 1,500 people have lost their lives since the end of negotiations and dialogue alone, and 1,500 families' furnaces have been shot down. Now, which side of this is defensible? Could we have a friend from within the EC PARTY, from within the Republican People's Party, from within the National Movement Party, who defends this painting? The hunger strike has brought us such an opportunity. If some steps are taken at the point of meeting these demands, we may be able to pave the way for such a process, otherwise you will pass history as a government in which the hunger strike, which is now the most prisoners involved. The more painful side, the worse it is, the more dangerous it is to go down in history as the government or Prime Minister of a country with a hunger strike at the most funerals. Therefore, let's come here and put aside such mutual political accusations and put a price on every constructive expression. Yesterday, after the Council of Ministers, the call made by Mr. Bulent Arinc is meaningful. This call must be addressed by fulfilling this call to all our conscientious friends within the Republican People's Party, within the People's Party, within the Republican People's Party, within the National Movement Party...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0147par0245	We participated in that call.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0146par0246	We make that call all the time, every interview we go to, let's do it now. We ask our friends to end this act without harming their own health. We make the call all the time.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0148par0247	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party group...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0146par0249	But without political content, the demands are not considered...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0148par0250	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0146par0251	Let's all approach this problem in a reasonable frame, knowing that a call doesn't work. Let's get this problem out of the country's agenda in a way that will bring us a solution.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0148par0253	Peace and Democracy Party, I submit the group's proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0149par0256	We asked for roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0150par0257	You're late.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0149par0258	I said don't do it. You didn't hear me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0151par0259	Let's do it, Mr. President. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Altay, Mr. Öner, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Ater, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Gök, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Oran, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Oyan. Yeah, I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Party of Action Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process. I'm reading it, and I'm also going to vote for you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0152par0269	You can't present it right away, sir, at the same time. How are you going to read it and put it to the polls? After the interviews...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0151par0270	I'm reading... Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 06/11/2012 on Tuesday (now), since there is no consensus among political parties, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly as required by Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. Our parliamentary research proposal for the Council of Turkey to be read in the General Assembly on Tuesday 6/11/2012 (now) in the General Assembly, where its talks will be held in today's unification, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems of teachers who have not been appointed. In favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Alim Izmir, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0153par0282	Mr. President, with the signatures of 24 members of our group, I have taken a vow by coincidence that on October 6, 2011, 13 months before this date, we would present to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate the problems of teachers in our country who could not be appointed, and that our request for parliamentary research would be raised in order to determine the necessary solutions. I hereby pay tribute to the candidates of the high council and to the teachers who have been waiting for us on television to see if we can be appointed as well. Dear lawmakers, how do we put the AKP's agenda on the state system that will bring Turkey into division in local governments, and how do we shut down city municipalities that have served in the republic's history for a hundred years, 60 years, and 80 years, so quickly, how do we get this law out, by making it beautiful, how do we actually sell its name to this nation, but how do we get all the poison in its account? But that's not the public agenda. How do we increase the number of people who can bring bread to the people's home, and today's meeting is here to see if this Parliament can make a decision about it. So as the National Movement Party, it's the problems of teachers that we've shared a few times since the beginning of this legislature, but once again, especially when we consider today's ordeals, which we have proposed to be taken into the Parliament's agenda. Although these are named teachers who can't be appointed in public, they're not teachers who can't be appointed, they're teachers who have not been appointed by the AKP. So the problem is the problem of teachers who have not been appointed. Now, I'd like to take you to the head of the AKP authorities ten years ago. I'd like to share some of the statements the Prime Minister made at the rally squares in 2002, what changed in ten years, and I'd like to share it with you first. I'd like to remind you once again of the words the Prime Minister said at the Izmit rally in 2002, in his own words: look at this system. There are 72,000 teachers short in the country. You're auditioning teachers, what the hell do you think you're doing? Let our teachers pick a school and get on with it. Why are you standing in his way? Hopefully, when we form our governments, we'll get all the teachers on duty, and we'll solve the problem of education in the first place. Dear lawmakers, this is in 2002. Now, when we look at the point of ten years from now, how much of what Mr. Prime Minister made in the rally squares did that day come true? 72,000 teachers have been compromised, and now you've doubled exactly 150,000 teachers short. Like the increase in national income, you've increased the teaching deficit by twice as much. So, did you start our teachers without a test? No. So, what did he say at the Samsun rally? From here at the Samsun rally, I say to all young candidates for teachers. Don't worry, when we arrive, when you finish college, what will I do, if I don't win the exam? You will have no fear because there will be no test. Is there a test now? There's a test, there's plenty. There are tests where the stolen questions are repeated. There are teachers wronged by stealing test questions. I thought you said there wasn't going to be a test. Ten years later, Turkey, where advanced democracy was discussed, more than ten years ago, is suffering. It's not finished. Mr. Prime Minister Gaziantep said at the rally: "When we are in power, hopefully there will be no candidate for a teacher in the free. " Are there any valued MPs, a candidate for a teacher in the open? A total of 236,895 teachers are waiting for the appointment, Mr. Minister of National Education's response to the official question motion on May 21, 2012. I thought you said there wasn't going to be a teacher on the loose. The number's up to 300,000. That's not over, there's more. When we are in power at the Istanbul rally, teachers will make preparations the day the school is finished, and the next day they will go to school with love of duty. Don't worry. So today, unfortunately, the ten-year AKP ruling has also created persecution for teachers who are waiting for and are not appointed, as in all areas. He's broken homes. He separates the wives of the appointed teachers, does not bring the two wives together, and continues to tear down the nests. Dear lawmakers, in the past ten years, not only have teachers been appointed or not been appointed, but in the ten-year period of AKP ruling, 15,961 schools have been shut down. By sticking with a clause in the Transported Elementary Rule, if you averagely hit 15,961 schools with 10 or 15 classrooms, about 200,000 classrooms were turned into garbage during this AKP ruling period. Schools were abandoned to destruction. After that, you're dating. We've built 169,000 new classrooms. You're bragging. Count the classrooms you've closed. You've caused at least 200,000 classes to be closed. On the other hand, during this period of power, unfortunately, the nests were destroyed, and the rights of the non-assigned teachers were especially granted. The national education ministry has been transformed into a national school sabbatical with separate policies implemented during each ministry period. During this time, huge injustices were committed in the distribution of 40,000 teachers on September 10, 2012, according to majors. So many injustices were done that some majors were not enough. You've been reassigned to close to 4,000, around 3,900. And as if that wasn't enough, you started a field change application. When there were teachers out there waiting for an appointment in high school with 87-88 points, you suddenly opened up a space change to teachers who had a job. This way, my friends, we don't want to give bread to those outside, we'll give you a little more road; go to different areas, whatever area you want. Where in the world do such an application come from, dear lawmakers? Doesn't the implementation of this Minister of National Education bother you at all as respected ruling party MPs? Can any of you get a hold of this person? Mr. Secretary, do you realize what you've done? What kind of app did you bring to this country? Have you ever looked into the application results? Do you have any idea what trouble 4+4 has been dealing with as soon as we get started on 4+4+4, not in schools, not many teachers? Many of the homeroom teachers have become redundant, so you've set up a change of venues to find them somewhere. We've always proposed these things here, so don't do it, at least delay practice for a year. We said, "You haven't taken a single step towards technical teachers." By 2012, you've given me up to 3 per cent of the technical and vocational faculty graduates who have been waiting for ten years as a teacher's candidate. When you opened your mouth, you talked about vocational education, but you didn't provide jobs for teachers who would provide this training. Now, your daughter-in-law, at least in February 2013... Mr. Minister of National Education, you know, has removed her appointment for February. Like the man who broke the hand, I did it, he says. You turn this wrong. Tell your minister to turn this wrong. With additional appointments in February 2013, create a job opportunity for teachers who are currently waiting in line for an appointment with 90 points and 95 points. On this occasion, I ask for your support in this motion, and I give you my regards again.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0154par0295	Thank you. Now, the People's Movement Party has asked to take a stand against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0155par0298	Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is our priority to keep them alive in such a process that thousands of political Kurdish prisoners have committed their bodies to death. So in the first part of my talk, I want to briefly talk about this human drama that we all need to be responsible for. Yes, today is the 56th day; Turkey's prisons have hunger strikes, and outside are mothers, fathers, fiancÃ©s, wives, children, grandparents, brothers and sisters, whose hearts have burned behind the fighting, tears, coffins, leaving their young children for eternity. These people lost thousands of children in prison, in soldiers, in mountains, in houses, in cars, on the road, in the arms of their mother. Today, those who are left alive by accident, those who have been slowly killed in prison, those who have been tortured, those who have been locked in cells, despite being punished for being legitimate and political demands, want a solution to the Kurdish problem that is certain, permanent, meets the problem. The demands are, as we know, to remove the isolation on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, to allow freedom, security and health conditions to play a role in the solution of the Kurdish problem, to start negotiations, to recognise the right to defence and education in the native language, and to remove obstacles to the public use of Kurdish in Kurdish. The demands are political, legitimate, and meetable; they are also demanded by millions of Kurds, accepted by Turkey's public. In fact, the immediate demand to remove the lockdown on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and start negotiations will free Turkey from this conflict and extremely worrying environment due to the unresolved Kurdish problem. Therefore, Mr. Abdullah Ocalan will have to meet with his attorneys immediately. Every day the isolation continues, hunger strike activists are one step closer to death. The content of demands is democratic rights. Besides, hundreds of political prisoners are being held in prison for expressing these demands. Students, children, women are accused of attending rallies, demonstrations and walks where education is required in the main language. There are thousands of prisoners who have been held in prison for seeking defence in their native language alone and have not been tried. Courts do not listen to prisoners who defend their native language, they are denied interpreters, prisoners are removed from the courtroom before their defences are taken. Instead of finding a solution to the problem, Turkey is consciously pushing public opinion into a hostile attitude towards Kurds. Thus, in many cities, Kurds' workplaces are burned down, their houses surrounded, Kurds face lynching in the middle of the street. Hunger strikes are an act aimed at creating the basis for Turkey's unresolved Kurdish problem, where activists put their lives on the line. Therefore, the opening of these demands must be resolved on a democratic basis. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by stating that the National Party of Action has made a motion on teachers who have not been appointed. The issue of non-assigned teachers has been going on for years, and it's getting bigger and bigger. The government's numbers are misleading, and they're just as difficult. In a speech he made the other day, the unappointed teachers presented their problems to the public as normal, even as if their appointments were an extraordinary act. In part of his speech, there are some who act in a way that I have become a teacher, I cannot be appointed, through some television channels or by some organizations that have been created. Anyone can be a teacher, but in order for all of this to be appointed, no doubt, you must allow the government to plan for other public institutions at the budget point or at the appointment point. It's the people who are guilty here again. There are people who are desperate enough to commit suicide, whose families are miserable, who are waiting to be appointed even though they read it. The Prime Minister says 120,000 teachers will be appointed. There will be 55,000 teachers appointed by the Minister about a year ago... but we hope he doesn't have to appoint just 11,000 teachers. About 300,000 teachers are waiting for the appointment. Sixty thousand teachers are paying teachers now. Teachers who are paid and used as a cheap labor force with substitute teachers continue to struggle to say, "Stop. " The demands of teachers waiting to be appointed in February must be considered. During the AKP ruling period, Nurcan Uca, Crescent Longkaya, teachers named Mustafa Kaya committed suicide and ended his life. Since the first six months of 2007, these people have been among the teachers who have been separated from life. There are all kinds of ways to kill in the country; they buy drones, they spend millions of dollars on state-of-the-art weapons, but when it comes to poverty, hunger, unemployment, non-assigned teachers, they can't transfer funds from the budget. While we're discussing all this, why don't we talk about security expenses? In January 2012, the amount of purchases of security, materials and services intended for defence was $732.7 million, while in July, there were 473.5.4 million, while in August, there were 372.4 million liras, totalling 846 million. The amount spent on covered funds is only 156.5 million liras in July, August; no one knows where they're going. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers must take the basis of critical thinking based on their role in the teaching profession, intellectual identity and social background, but we also leave the statements of Mr. Minister of Education, who has taken until he says, "Do other work for teachers who are critical of the current policies, who invite teachers to resign from teaching, and who are not appointed." Also, today is the founding anniversary of the SEC, which is the source of all the distortions in the educational system. Since its establishment, hundreds of students who have been protesting this twisted system have been subjected to attacks and arrested. Today we have students who have been injured and taken into custody. This system needs to be changed immediately, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0156par0312	Thank you. Engin Altay, Sinop MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0315	Thank you. Mr. President, I actually just said that the microphone was on, and I didn't realize it, so let me rephrase that. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I made a pledge in favour of the parliamentary research motion issued by the MPP. I took it with pleasure and pleasure, because I know there have been about 100 parliamentary research motions on the dusty shelves or hard drives of the House for the last six or seven years. All of these proposals are demanded by the High Assembly: ▪ Let us discuss the situation of teachers who are not appointed. Members of lawmakers, from time to time, you can tell us that Vara gives opposition to the yora, proposes an investigation, gives a general discussion, gives a written question motion, provides research proposals... ▪ What if you're all raised by teachers, you owe a debt of gratitude and gratitude to teachers, and we're dealing with a chronic, tragic situation in this country that involves a single person living in this country, with their families, a population of 1.5 million people. You're just sitting here. There are parliamentary research for things far less important than this. Besides, our MP just told us on behalf of the MHP Group, that the Prime Minister has made commitments to this issue all over Turkey before the 2002 elections. Now, we need to make an assessment of the Prime Minister's speech, as well as his speech from the bench. When he talks to him, the prime minister, who does not suffer much for those who listen to him and those who have faith and hope for him, is shocking and disappointing to those who rely on him when he comes out of the tramper. Today I am sure that many of you at the group meeting -- whether you say what the prime minister did or call it "life" -- must be red, red. As head of the 61st Republic government today, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, my face has turned red. The Prime Minister's style, his style, is not really new, but there are many examples of it in the past, but his analogy today is perhaps the greatest misfortune of his political life. No matter where you come from in politics, we all have statements that go beyond our means, that are involuntary words. I hope, and I hope, Mr. Prime Minister, that as soon as possible, he can make up for the great shame he's done today, or in terms of the world, or in terms of the obvious sense, of what he's done with his intention, but it doesn't suit him at all. Congressmans, our topic is teachers whose AKP governments have not appointed. I've apologized to our teachers on this stand for every occasion, and once again, I apologize. Mr. Secretary's over there. Mr. Secretary, did you tell Haymana that when I opened the 2012-2013 school year, I needed 120,000 emergency teachers? You did. Did you get 40 grand? You got it. You're saying you won't be appointed in February. Well, I'm not telling you that I'm not asking you to put 250,000 teachers in the system waiting to be appointed. However, in one country, I need 120,000 teachers. If the Ministry of National Education confirms that, if the internal audit report confirms that, then you have to go out and become the fastest-growing country in the world, how many major economies do we have, in ten years, a lot and a lot of big jobs. If it's because it's saying that, you have to get 120,000 teachers into the system immediately. You've hired a teacher. You're going to pay for it. Shame on you! Payday teaching is the imprisonment of people for a ridiculous fee that cannot be found in any system in the world, it's a slavery. Now, there's something more sad, Congressman. I've worked with many national education ministers in this Parliament, but I've never seen anything like it. Look, if this sentence suits a Minister of National Education, I'm going to take it back, vote against the MHP group proposal. The Minister of National Education says: "I liken those who want to be teachers to doves in front of Eminönu Mosque; they know that one must feed them... that my children have not become officers of God. If the Minister of Education has spoken this sentence -- which has fallen on the Internet, the records -- it is a disgrace.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0158par0326	He's laughing there, he's laughing there, he's laughing there!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0327	He has also insulted the teachers who raised him, and has insulted about 3 million civil servants who work in Turkey. I wonder, what do the Minister of National Education's children do? I don't mind the Prime Minister and some other ministers' children who have had a lot and a lot of real estate and a lot of wealth in less time, but this nation has no right to make fun of its officers, the nation's children, and the Minister of National Education has no right to make fun of its children. Gene's at camp, as it appears in the press again, the Prime Minister is taking matters into his own hands about education. Then, we're used to him scolding the Speaker, lawmakers, but in the way it's reflected in the press, he's giving a brush to the Minister of National Education. I have not been informed of what the Minister of National Education has called a problem, and you should be able to solve it before anyone else does. What is it that the Minister of National Education isn't aware of? It's raising money from parents. Mr. Secretary, you have written to the parents at 22/10/2012. I've got the article, Mr. Secretary. We've done so much work, so much work on national education. You say, you've basically screwed up national education, you've ruined the national education system.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0159par0330	What kind of talk is that? It's rude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0331	Before your time or...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0160par0332	Mr. Altay, I'd like to take these words... Would you please take it back, please, but can you correct it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0334	I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. President, yes. Look, now, what was the number of students per class? What was the number of students per class before the Minister, now what? Let him tell you himself. Look, I'm giving him the right to tease and answer, but there's God up there. He'll talk. Before Omar Dinçer, how many students were left per class, and now how many students are down, so let him begin by giving his answer. Needless to say, you've ruined the national education system. Look, a newspaper... how strange, the Finance Minister's constituency is the Çağli village, the Finance Minister's constituency. This is the school where they teach. Now, I have something very important to share with you. There's always this class of polymia, it's been there for ten years. The Prime Minister says... it's new, it's fresh. The Prime Minister was always using 180,000, and yesterday at Redcahamam, he said he had done 146,000 classes. Bulent Arinc says 180,000. What does the Minister of National Education say? I don't know, I think he's gonna say the middle of the two. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0161par0338	He doesn't know!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0162par0339	He doesn't know, he knows!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0340	Of course he doesn't, of course he doesn't. Now, look, Mr. Secretary, you have a say in the matter.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0163par0342	The Prime Minister is right about that, dear!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0343	But before he used his say-so, Reþit Galib was also a Minister of National Education and a Minister of National Education, whom Ataturk had never really liked before, had never been one of his ideas. Despite Ataturk, the Ministry of National Education later made an argument with Ataturk. Reþit Galib has accepted his thesis to the President of the Age. The current Minister of National Education keeps getting scolded by the Prime Minister. Is that okay? If the Minister of National Education is scolded, will the boy at school trust that system? That's not gonna happen. Congressmans, our Turkish national education system has been devastated. (H.P.) You really have ruined the national education system, the primary education system, come back here, before that happens, because you have a grudge, a grudge, a disability about the qualities of a republic.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0164par0345	People didn't like it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0346	You know what? In your Ankara, Istanbul has classrooms of 70 people. Why don't you send your kid to class for 70?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0165par0347	They send them to colleges, colleges! They're sending him to private colleges!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0348	What the hell! You don't know what a citizen's going through.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0165par0349	Citizen, poor imam hatibe, they're sending their own children to colleges!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0157par0351	I expect both the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Education to bring the teachers you failed to appoint. I've told you before, a man of his word is a man of his word. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0166par0354	Mr. Dinçer, you have a request. What did you want to say?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0167par0355	Mr. President, because of the bullying I've been given.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0166par0356	But without further ado, I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0167par0360	Mr. President, very dear friends, after listening to the speech just now, I felt the need to deconstruct some information. First of all, I have to confirm immediately that since 2003, we've had over 181,000 classes...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0168par0361	Open the Prime Minister's speech today...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0167par0362	And just last year, we did an app that reduces the number of students per classroom in a much better way than the previous year, by converting 11.600 out-of-project applications into classrooms, around 10,600, with a total of over 22,000 new classrooms.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0169par0363	How many did the philanthropist do, how many did you make out of the budget?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0167par0364	During my predecessor's term, the average number of students in elementary schools was around 31 per classroom, and there was still no change in that number. Your friends, however, have a minor error in their number of students per classroom account, with a small error that leads to great consequences, with great errors. Class numbers are normally obtained as a division of the total number of classrooms with a total student in a province. In class, however, how many students do you have during class are measured by the department. From this point of view, even in Istanbul, the number of students who suddenly exist against a teacher is about 40 to 44 students per classroom. From this point of view, do not be surprised by the applications in the educational system. More importantly, it's a story made up to create a basis for discussions or talks in a similar situation, all of the news he just published in his own hands today. The incident in Batman is a complete fabrication. About 12 students in that village, elementary school students... there are 22 students in total. Of these 22 students, 10 are middle school students, 12 are elementary school students. 10 middle school students should be transported to another district center, 12 students... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Very important information, Mr. President. Let me finish my sentence.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0170par0369	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0167par0370	But it's very important information.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0170par0371	Please, Mr. Dinçer, we don't have that app. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0171par0373	Mr. President is principled!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0172par0374	I just want to say that in all the talks... it's not the national education system that we're destroying, it's the CHP mentality that we're destroying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0170par0376	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0173par0377	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary said that I was misinformationing my speech. If you'll excuse me for a moment...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0170par0378	No, it's not.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0173par0379	From the record, from the report. Not more than a minute. Look, I'm not saying two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0170par0380	But there is no bullying, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0173par0381	But the wrong information... how could it not be? He accused me of giving false information to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0174par0382	He said, "Don't make me, Mr. President!"
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0175par0383	Yes, he did.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0176par0384	I listened to the thing that said the news was wrong. If there's bullying, it's the newspaper and...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0177par0385	He said, "Don't make me, Mr. President."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0176par0386	Okay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0177par0387	I don't come up here with a fake document.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0176par0388	No, he didn't tell you, but I listened carefully. He called the newspaper article "Don't make me. "
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0178par0389	Mr. President, I gave you false information. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0176par0390	Yeah, I know.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0179par0391	The Prime Minister said run, I'll tell you what the Prime Minister said.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0176par0392	Mr. Altay, please, there's no way we can talk like this, but please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0179par0393	Mr. President, but what I'm saying is... look, I'm saying half a minute, Mr. President, not two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0176par0394	But we don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Altay. We listened to the speech, no teasing you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0179par0395	No how, no how, he accused me of giving false information.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0180par0396	Sir, if Mr. Engin gave you false information, let him correct it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0179par0397	Mr. President, I said the Prime Minister said 146 thousand. I said it was a classroom. Now, I'm going to read a sentence from here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0180par0398	Sir, I've been told that the General Assembly has given false information, it can't be misinformation, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0181par0399	Please, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0179par0400	Mr. President, you made no promises here, no promises, no taunts. Now, in reference to my speech, Mr. Secretary, he said I gave false information to the General Assembly. Did he tell you? He did. That gives me the right to answer.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0180par0401	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0182par0402	Yes, he did.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0183par0403	No, he didn't say you gave the General Assembly false information, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0184par0404	He said, "Don't make me, don't make me."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0183par0405	He told me about the paper. Yes, we have, sir. Sit down, I'll open your seat for a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0184par0407	I'm not interested in going out there, it's my place, okay.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0183par0408	It's not in the form of teasing. Here you go. No, please, but there's no teasing, just to make a statement, please, from your...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0184par0411	Thank you. Mr. President, I've never been on this stand with such forged documents and information. In short, the Prime Minister's Redchahammak speech says a lot about education: we opened 6,326 schools in 16 years and started a whole new era. Let a AKP MP pick up a pencil. We have increased the number of classes from 346,666, to 492, if you would write it down. I get 146 when I take 346 out of this 492. That means the Prime Minister said 146. Now the Minister says 180. Either the Prime Minister or the Minister is lying, brother, it's that simple. (CHEERING) Oh, my God! That's what he says.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0185par0413	No, no, the Minister doesn't know that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0186par0414	Wait a second... Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0187par0417	Mr. President, I can talk on the microphone. Thank you, Mr. President. In an example of Istanbul, the Minister of National Education said that even in Istanbul there were no classes that passed 44 people. However, I know from my own constituency, the first district of Istanbul that there are 55-60 classrooms in Sultanbeyli and Sandzaktepe, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0188par0420	The Minister is giving false information.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0187par0421	I don't think it's in your knowledge, when you say Istanbul, you think there's a very low number of students. There are 55-60 students in the classroom at schools where poor and small-income families like Sultanbeyli and Sandzaktepe make their children study. For your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0188par0423	The Minister doesn't know because he hasn't left the room.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0189par0424	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0190par0427	Thank you, Mr. President. There's basically no contradiction between those two numbers, so there's no point in making such strong accusations with an extremely superficial approach. Now, look, when you take the difference between those two numbers, the classes that are out of the loop are not included in that number, so they've gone from 300 to 400,000, as our Minister put it, to an additional 180,000 classes added, while 30,000 classes have been left out of the loop for one reason or another, so it's been destroyed, etc. Yeah, it's as simple and as simple as that. So...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0191par0429	I mean, it's 146.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0190par0430	No, 180,000 additional...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0192par0431	Okay, then you've done even less studying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0190par0432	Look, look, it's obvious, let me say it again, so...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0193par0433	Mr. President, promise the groups on this account.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0190par0434	...at that time 350,000 -- I'm just saying -- there's some extracurricular textbooks in the classroom later, aren't there? Every year, thousands of classes fall out, completes their lives, etcetera. For other reasons, it also accelerated during this period. That's what our Minister says, 180,000, new additions, newly built classrooms.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0194par0435	That's what the Prime Minister says.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0190par0436	What our Prime Minister says is the difference between the two. When you add the withdrawals to it, you'll find the sum, simple as that. Please take that back. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0195par0438	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0196par0439	Sir, Mr. Nurettin fixed the Prime Minister and Minister, thank you very much!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0195par0443	Avni Erdemir, MP of the National Movement Party, who has asked to take a stand against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0197par0445	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to open a parliamentary investigation into the measures taken by the non-assigned teachers of the MHP Group. I hereby salute you, my dear friends, and our dear teachers. Dear friends, Jonah says: "A promise to clear the face of a man who knows the word, to satisfy the work of a man who cooks his word, a battle of speech, a battle of speech, a vaccine of promise, a word of oil and honey." They say, "Even a person should be able to say the word, saying the word, saying the word, saying the word, saying the word, saying the word, saying the word, saying the word, is eight gardens." My dear friends, of course, are polemics, and so are we, and so are our friends, but in our conversation, we will try to speak in a tone, in a tone, in a manner that is in harmony with the thoughts of Jonah Emre. Dear friends, of course, every candidate for a teacher who can't get a job, every young person who can't get a job, our heart, we know exactly what damage unemployment can cause in society, what storms are in the hearts of an unappointed teacher candidate, what dramas they've experienced. And that's what we've been fighting for for ten years as AK PARTY, and that's what we've been working for day and night for; production, quality, exports, that's what we're trying to do. We know that we can't solve these problems without developing our country, without expanding it, if only there was a magic formula, and we could solve these problems right away. Dear friends, I'd like to express my personal regret that this matter has been brought to the agenda of the High Assembly over and over again.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0198par0449	Why would you be upset?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0197par0450	Of course, the opposition has the right to bring to the agenda what he wants. But these are our young people, these are our sons, these are the challenges that they face, of course, and the storms that are in them are important, of course, but the rhetoric that will not contribute to the solution, the abuse of their feelings, the use of power and opposition as political material to wear each other out, I think it's unfair to these young people. My fellow lawmakers, if you ask the opposition, there's nothing full about anything.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0199par0452	Congressman, you've made a lot of stuff, what are you guys? Guys, you've got supplies.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0197par0453	The AK PARTY is not doing the right thing in education, in health, in economics...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0199par0454	You guys are making political stuff.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0197par0455	He's always doing the wrong thing, he's always doing the wrong thing, according to the opposition. Dear friends, you're looking at the power of the AK PARTY with your eyes crossed. People see us wrong. But we believe that our nation sees us, understands us, in its vast glory. So look at us with the eyes of our people, and say: "Truly, it is crooked." My dear friends, we have never been political populism, we have not abused the feelings of our young, we have promised what we can do, we have sided with the needs of our country, our educational community, and we have done what we can and we will continue to do. Dear lawmakers, we believe that universities should plan to receive students, considering the supply and demand balance. Our ministry has done the necessary work with the SEC, and planning according to our country's needs has been initiated. The Teacher Work Projects, Strategy and System Development Project has been launched, dear friends. Of course, no one can appoint us teachers. From 2002, in our power, we appointed 367 thousand teachers to our day. That means more than half of our current teachers, yes. Yes, in ten years, more than half of the teachers who worked have been appointed AK PARTY Powers. Look, we've appointed 57,000 teachers this year. These appointments worked, and the number of paid teachers dropped to 12,000. Yes, the number of paid teachers, 53 thousand in 2011, is 12 today. This recovery, without a doubt, was achieved by a change in our ministry's teaching appointment policies, with effective use of the norm staff. Dear lawmakers will be appointed 367,000 teachers in the EC PARTY rule, the situation in your own era will not be said, all non-assigned will be accounted for by the EC PARTY Authority. Come on, guys, let's be realistic. Didn't you have a teacher who couldn't be assigned to Turkey in 2002? If we come to the point like this, what are we going to do about the unassigned lawyers today? What are we going to do about the unassigned economists today? What are we going to do about unregistered geologists, archaeologists? Yes, to a necessary plan, but come, say: "We will employ everyone who has a university degree in public."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0200par0460	You'll find the solution for him. Of course they're a problem.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0201par0461	You're the one in power!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0200par0462	Why couldn't you get rid of them? Have you had one for ten years?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0202par0463	The teacher who was not appointed during our time, the archaeologist who was not appointed during our time, will not be a geologist, we will appoint them all in public. Say, "Come, my dear friends on this bench." Dear friends, we've always said, "We won't be deceived, we won't be cheaters." We know that in no country in the world, not everyone who finishes college is employed in public. In fact, today we are one of the most publicly employed countries in the world.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0203par0465	Work at the university, college! It's a shame about those kids!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0202par0466	Even in America, the world's largest economy today, unemployment is around 8 percent. We always say what we have to do: grow up, grow up. In our vision of 2023, the $500 billion export is to achieve the goal of the world's 10 largest economies. If we succeed in this, we'll talk about the unassigned teachers, the other unassigned professionals, the problems will resolve themselves, God willing. What we do as governments today is to tell our young people the truth, to improve this country with our nation, and to reduce unemployment. We'll do it together with our people.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0204par0467	It was the 13th economy last year, the 18th economy this year, how did it succeed?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0202par0468	Dear friends, there was a bankrupt Turkey in Turkey, where the members of the MPP have submitted the motion. People, yes, there was a poor Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0205par0469	You're full of shit! You're a grown man!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0206par0470	You tell me about yourself. How are things with you?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0202par0471	There was a Turkey that was struggling to pay its employees' salaries, and there were teachers who were not appointed at the time.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0206par0472	You tell me about yourself, how are you doing? Tell me about your situation. How's that, how's that, a bid, a ride?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0202par0473	In fact, in 2002, our prime minister had statements that he had studied the issue of non-assigned teachers in the squares and that the problem needed to be resolved.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0207par0474	What happened? It was the other way around.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0208par0475	Is everything all right?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0202par0476	I just did. So one of the most important issues you passed on to Turkey was the unappointed teachers in your era. And you're making that very clear in your motive. Yes, that's what our Prime Minister said in the squares, and he did what he had to do. Yes, 367 thousand teachers were appointed from that day on.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0209par0477	Hadji, how are you doing, Hadji?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0202par0478	You didn't appoint this. This has been appointed by the AK PARTY government, where Recep Tayyip Erdogan, his 367 thousand teachers, was Prime Minister. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, I know very well that it's around me, and I'd like to present it for him: in your time, without the balance of supply demand, and with thousands of other teachers who had already graduated from PE and sports colleges, he's always waited to be appointed, and he's been assigned enough to appoint most of those young people, and it's been given to us to appoint most of them.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0210par0481	Where did all the teachers pile up?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0202par0482	If today's young people are to be appointed, make no mistake, I say, "Hopefully, we will appoint him." And I salute you all again with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0211par0484	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0212par0485	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0211par0486	Sir, the Minister has made a statement regarding the 57th government period that banks have been sunk, and this is an open taunt. Mr. Mehmet Günal, on behalf of the group, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0212par0487	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, two minutes... [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] But, please, let's not get into any more bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0213par0492	Thank you, Mr. President. I wasn't promised to tease you, I'm just making a correction. If you can speak these words today, it is because of the measures taken by the 57th government. You're going to sing your own... (KARK PARTIES) I'm going to sing the banks now. While we were talking about it, Mr. Prime Minister Bozizik was in a bank boss' helicopter, so when you arrived...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0214par0496	Yes, in Bozükük, with the bosses of the sunken banks...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0215par0497	He was traveling in the helicopter of the Pure Earth.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0213par0498	Second, you set up a research commission here, see, you set up a research commission, get your reports out of the archive, and I'll send them to you. And then you found them there, and you thought, "Who sold it, who bought it?" And you know what you did while you were waiting for him to be punished? Mr. Canikli is the subject of Mr. Canikli. Whose taxes have you forgiven?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0216par0499	Forgive what?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0213par0500	Whose punishment have you forgiven?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0216par0501	When?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0213par0502	As soon as he comes to power, it's November and December. I'll have the IRS's transcripts sent over to you in a moment. The bank's bosses, you call it, paid nearly 3 billion taxes, a foreign bank, for 3 billion...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0216par0503	If he has any papers...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0213par0504	I'll bring you those IRS articles right away, they're in my archives, and I talked to them here. Your first job was to forgive the taxes of Citibank, your first job, to power as soon as it came in, to the end of November 2002, in December, look at your general department of revenues that day, and the Ministry of Finance, the first thing you did was to forgive their tax fines, to forgive their irregularities.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0216par0505	Tell me what you know.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0213par0506	Why didn't you punish the people who siphoned the banks? You set up here, you set up a research commission. You have your report, and Mr. Salih Kapusuz has his signature. So what did you do here, what did you do? There was, but what did you find? Who siphoned it? You get on the hose men's helicopter and then you go for a ride. If it weren't for the 57th government's measures, we would not have been so easily affected by this crisis today. Those precautions, the measures, you can talk like that today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0217par0507	The President isn't talking in there, he's saying it outside.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0213par0508	At least thank me, at least give me the right, then continue again, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0218par0510	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0219par0511	What's the matter? Where are you going?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0220par0512	Mr. President, he's been picking on me.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0218par0513	What did he say, Mr. Canikli?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0221par0514	No teasing, it's in the archives, it's in the archives; I'll bring it in, you'll look into it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0218par0515	What did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0222par0516	Sir, with the hosers' helicopter...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0221par0517	Yeah, didn't he or didn't he? Did he not travel in the helicopter of the Pure Earth?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0223par0518	I'll be damned if they've ever been in a helicopter of the Pure Earth.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0221par0519	Didn't he, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0223par0520	He didn't come down from the Helo of Fine Earth, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0224par0521	I told you not to mess with me, but you picked on me, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0221par0522	This isn't teasing, I'm telling the truth. What kind of a tease is that? Mr. President, if he didn't travel, tell him he didn't. Tell him that, tell him that now.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0223par0523	Mr. President, we didn't travel in Halis Earth's helicopter.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0224par0524	Here you go, Mr. Canikli. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0225par0527	Mr. President, dear friends, look, in an accusation like this, who's the embezzler first, who's the tax breaker, and what is the relationship between this trip -- if such an event exists? This needs to be put here, very clearly, very clearly. You're out...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0226par0528	Are you telling your speaker just now? Are you saying that to your speaker just now?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0227par0529	You guys shut down the hosers' bank.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0226par0530	Don't go up there and tell a story, it's a fairy tale.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0228par0531	Let me, look... You said a lot of things, you said a lot of things. You said things that weren't real, that you couldn't prove, that you couldn't.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0229par0533	We shut down the hosers' bank, cleaned it up, shipped it to you clean, clean, clean! We sent you a fresh wire.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0230par0534	If the helicopter is a very concrete phenomenon, it's not unusual.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0228par0535	How right is it to make such a claim from here, how reasonable is it, how conscientious is it? For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0231par0536	You're telling your friend?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0232par0537	Ask your friend.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0231par0538	Put your hand on your conscience and talk here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0233par0539	If you have a document, information, anything, let's discuss it, but you don't. Nothing, nothing.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0232par0540	Ask your friend.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0233par0541	No names, no information, no dates, no numbers. Without that, you have to admit that the allegations are false. We have to accept that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0234par0543	Look, he gave me the names, look at the names.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0232par0544	Why is it closed? Why? Is Earthbank alive? He gave it to TMSF...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0234par0545	Name, name, name!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0235par0546	These allegations are all baseless, I'm making them very clear.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0232par0547	I gave you two bank names, tell me.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0235par0548	Because there's no allegations, no papers, no evidence, nothing.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0232par0549	Tell me. I'll get it. I'll get you a copy of the IRS. Tell me if you wrote it down or not. You're a financier.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0235par0550	Can people be blamed for a claim like that? Please don't and apologize.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0232par0552	Why should I apologize? If I bring it, will you apologize?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0236par0553	Mr. Günal, Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0232par0554	Are you going to apologize if I bring you the IRS writing?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0236par0555	Please sit down, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0237par0556	Then there's no one left to blame, no one left to blame, everybody blames everybody, everybody says things about everybody.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0238par0557	You're gonna be smacked around the neck with your washed-up bank bosses, and we're gonna apologize! Is that a thing? How could that happen?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0237par0558	Look, dear friends, it's been said that during that period, the government's measures came to this day. There have been 12 or 13 IMF-backed measures before that day...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0238par0559	You're the one who's flying around in the helicopter of the bankrupt banks' bosses. Why should we apologize?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0237par0560	...but it all ended in failure, all of it. More or less the nature of the measures was the same.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0239par0561	You've come to this day with precautions.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0237par0562	There's a difference, none of which has been implemented by the AK PARTY government.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0240par0563	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0241par0564	In 2005, you took credit from the IMF, ten billion from the IMF; in May 2005, you took credit from the IMF.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0237par0565	What has been implemented by the EC PARTY government has been successful. That's the difference. The important thing is the application. Decisions are important, but more importantly, the implementation of them.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0242par0566	Mr. Canicli, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0241par0567	You took it in 2005, and you were in the government.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0243par0568	Mr. President, look, Mr. Günal just made a statement about the bullying. Look, the newspaper report: Mr. Tayip has arrived in the sunken bank summit of the earth in his helicopter. He says, "Tayyip Erdoğan has come in the earth's helicopter."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0244par0569	Mr. President, are we going to talk to the news?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0243par0570	How did you do it with the bankers?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0245par0571	Have we been out there, Mr. President? Did we get on that helicopter?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0246par0572	Did you want a document, Mr. Nurettin? Take it, take it!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0245par0573	Did we build the AK PARTY in the helicopter?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0246par0574	What were you doing in his helicopter?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0247par0578	I submit the nationalist movement party proposal to your votes... those in favor...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0248par0579	Look, it says so right here, Mr. President. Mr. President, it says here that he erased 3 billion of Citibank.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0249par0580	You're giving Citibanka 3 billion of the country.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit03spe0247par0581	Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0247par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. 06.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Tuesday, 06,11,2012, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 30/05/2012, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was suggested by Mersin MP Ali Riza ÖZTÜRK and other proposals to be presented to the General Assembly (439 rank) by the Council of Parliament's Council for Research, which was given "to investigate the problems in the production of fruit and vegetables in our country, to determine the measures that need to be taken." The Republican People's Party has chosen Vahab, Mersin MP, who wants a word in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0250par0014	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to a motion for the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on the problems of our group's vegetable and fruit producers, the problems of this sector. In fact, the period of discussion coincides with an intense crisis in the vegetable and fruit industry. Today, go to Turkey's areas of production that have significant production potential for producing vegetables and fruit, and see producers there, visit vegetables and fruits, and you will find that the problem is really at very important points right now. During the weekend, we had some work in Mersin, where we met with the manufacturers. People can't produce, produce vegetables, produce fruits, make them, sell them. They protested, complaining that the products they produced -- they came in front of us politicians -- were not sold -- were dumped from the truck. We all know that producing vegetables and fruits in Turkey is a highly intensive labour sector. People work hard at it, work hard for months to produce it; not winter, not summer, not hot, not cold, but hard work to create it in the best way, the best quality, the most efficient way to make it. Of course, when Turkey has no policy in this sense, you see, some years when the markets are conjuncturally positive, when the production is low, the manufacturer can make money when export demand is low. Some years you look at it, because of different factors, the manufacturer can't sell the product they produce. So, what is the institution that will provide this stability, the mechanism for that stability? Of course, it is the government that rules the country, and it is the ministry of this issue, and that's the problem. An important sector is that Turkey produces 45 million tonnes of aged vegetables and fruit annually, but it exports about 5 per cent of it. If the manufacturer can market the rest of its production, he can market it abroad, and if he can't market it, he has to dump it in the trash. Thus, his production is meaningless. I said hard labor when I started speaking. Millions of people provide an important employment process in the production of vegetables, from the time the vegetable seedlings were planted to the point where they went to the market. He works in the field, he's a yard worker, he's a worker who packs it, he's a mover who markets it, he's a market trader who delivers it to the ultimate consumer. Thus, many social classes benefit from it, gain from it, earn from it the sustenance of their children. So whatever needs to be done about this sector, whatever problems are today, whatever measures need to be taken in the past, but are not taken today, it is useful to establish this research commission to uncover them. There is no problem in this sector. We can't say, we can't ignore them. If we do something like that, we'll have to move forward with today's problem by tomorrow. No one gains from it, nor does the government benefit from it, nor does the manufacturer who operates on it benefit from it, nor does the final consumer benefit from it. There are a lot of problems in this business. When this is discussed, in particular, we're talking about the height of input costs in the agricultural sector in this production pen. We say it all the time. Basic input prices are too high for the Turkish manufacturer to compete in the world. One of the main reasons for this is the incredible high taxes on these basic entries. Let's make an adjustment, we say that all the time. It's an important move to lower input prices, an important savings, an important policy, but the government is always blocking its ear. Unplanned support. In order to overcome a crisis in any branch of any agricultural production, our support for saving the day does not provide a solution for the future. You save the day, it's a palliative solution, it's a temporary solution, but basically, in the short term of that problem, in the middle term, because there's no long-term planning solution, you look at it, and after a while, you get the same problem. See, in the vegetable industry, your government has made significant mistakes in the fruit industry. He did unscheduled support; he did plant support; he did plant support. He said to the manufacturer: "Build new citrus facilities, build new peach plants, build new apple plants." So, one of the main reasons why we have a significant amount of problems in this industry today is that the manufacturer can't market the product they produce, that he can't get enough support in exports. I said about 5 percent of 45 million tons, and you can export 2.5 million tons. You have $12 billion in agricultural product exports. That's $2-2.5 billion in agricultural products, but when the Minister of Agriculture gets up here, he doesn't leave ash in the grill. We're the leader of Europe, we have an agricultural economy in the 8th century of the world... not by flipping numbers. There's a fact. Come, go to the Mediterranean region. Look, you've followed a Syrian policy, you've ruined the country, you've ruined it politically, you've ruined it financially, you've destroyed society's social peace in terms of social peace. Come, to the Mediterranean region, to the Southeastern Anatolian region, to the Şanlıurfa, to the Gaziantep, to Hatay, to Adana, to Osmaniye, to Mersin. Today, the Syrian policy error hit the economy of that region, threatening social peace in that region. We can't export now, not just Syria. We exported from that line to 10 countries from the Middle East. In my district today, in the summer months, people couldn't sell the products they had worked so hard on, they threw them away. The main reason for this is the problems with exports in that area. You can't get trucks through that area, there's a safety issue, there's a problem with property security. Let's find an alternative, what do we do? Let us arrange the ro-ro flights from the port of Mersin to the port of Alexandria, Egypt. And this time, it's up to $3,000 from thousands of dollars. The vegetable fruit is not such a tough commodity, it is not a product; in a short time, within two days, you will harvest, you will pack, you will deliver it to markets; you sold, you sold, you could not sell, you will throw it away. Now, come, look at our territory, the situation is there. There's also a problem with marketing from the wrong agricultural policies, specifically their wrong policies based on this issue, production problems. In addition, peace has been damaged in neighbouring countries, blood in neighboring countries has taken over the body; there's fire, there's gunpowder, there's war. Here's the Arab Spring, the play of the imperialists, here's the picture that came out. Middle East people are dying, Middle East people are crying, it's happening to Middle Eastern people's pouch, it's happening to their economy. Nothing happens to Western imperialists. Their people don't die, their economies don't. On the contrary, they're economically profitable, they're selling industrial products, they're exploiting oil. Here's where your wrong policies bring Turkey. It's a shame, it's a sin! Turn this wrong. America's wiped it out, and now it's looking for other allies. They found out you couldn't pull it off, looking for other allies. It's a shame! There they turned us against our fellow believers, our kinsmen, and they tried to make us hurt each other. Now, the ruling MPs must warn this, warn the Prime Minister, wake him up, wake him up. So it's an important sector, thousands, millions of people working, a significant economic potential. We think it would be helpful to set up a commission on this matter, and we would like your support. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0251par0026	Thank you. Hussain Samani, Antalya MP who has asked for the opposition to the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0252par0029	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the problems of age vegetables and fruit producers. I salute you all. Today, we're talking about the problems of the agricultural sector, a very strategic sector that Mr. Varap had just pointed out, and we're talking about the part in which we actually call age vegetables and fruit, which has no storage, which has to be consumed or processed in a very short time. Of course, of course, when we discuss such a delicate matter, we need to discuss it with the data. Really, what are the expectations of this sector? What are the expectations of farmers in this sector? What conditions do producers who produce products in this sector need to sell their products, or what does the market need? Actually, we need to take a look at these. And we need to make the policies that we've created in line with that. When we look at it in a real sense, in the fruit and vegetables industry, when we actually look at it in the production field, we see that there's no going backwards, and Mr. Vakap just pointed at it. From 39 million tons to 45 million tons today in 2002, we ranked as the 12th row of fruit production in the world, and we ranked as the fourth in the world in the production of vegetables. When we look at exports, 534 million in vegetables and fruit exports were raised to $2.5 billion today, including nuts, raisins, dry figs, and dried vegetables and fruits. Dear lawmakers, it's actually a matter of interest to all of us when we call it ejaculate and fruit, because when we're hungry, we need these products that these manufacturers offer us freshly, we need these products to feed. But unfortunately, there's a lot of speculation about these products, too. Most speakers who talk about these products are people who are on television, who make statements, who don't know about these products. Now, it's clear that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken these distances and its supports, in fact, been directed towards a goal. Because when we do supports in the agricultural sector, of course, there are a lot of benefits, but most of them are specific. For example, certified seedlings are supported by saplings. The aim of this is to support the plant that the market needs. So we've produced fruit so far, produced tons of it, we've come to market doors, but the world doesn't eat it anymore, it's different kinds of fruit the world wants. So, the Department of Agriculture has found that very well, and now, by supporting the plants that the world needs and needs to consume, by supporting them as certified saplings, they're encouraging them to be produced, to provide the garden facility for them. Again, the market's demands are... you'll remember it a long time ago, there are residual problems. And that goes for us, too, you know, all the congressmen here, when our kids in our house take one apple, one tomato, do we have any leftovers? There's a question mark inside our head. Here are some steps that must be taken to eliminate the demands of the domestic market and the expectations of the outside market, the hoarding of the age of vegetables and fruit. That's what the Department of Agriculture did. How does he do that? Of course, the amount of residue in these products, 22 percent, today, you'll appreciate that it's 1 percent. It's down to the level of five, when we look at the year 2002. Plus, all criteria have been identified by the criteria of the European Union.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0253par0035	You're telling me how many samples are being taken. You poison them every day.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0252par0036	So, how did we get these? We found them, of course, with good agricultural practices. We got them using the right medication at the right time. A long time ago, as you know, there was support for bills using pesticides, a certain percentage of them were given, they were eliminated, they were switched to a prescription system. Besides, the biological struggle is being supported, and we all know that. Today, the Ministry of Agriculture supports a number of practices, such as biological warfare, pheromone traps, nets, especially in greenhouses, in terms of products grown in winter. So there's a question mark in our minds today that says, "Are we always taking hormone products?" Now, to eliminate that question mark, bees are being used today in greenhouses, Antalya, the Mediterranean region, as we call them. It provides biological insemination, and without hormones, of course, it can be produced, and that's what the market needs. In Europe, again, in very old times, it's called Eurepgap, we have a transition to practices called good agricultural practices, we have a registration system, along with the farmer's registration system, to a system where medicines are now being recorded.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0254par0039	Yeah, what are we talking about? You threw the grapes away in the reformatory, and in the trash; speak of it. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0252par0040	And as a result of all of this, agricultural production and exports are increasing, and I'm saying that these policies will continue to increase, and I'm saying that the Ministry of Agriculture is taking the necessary measures on this issue, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0255par0042	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0256par0045	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My dear friends, I have made a promise in favor of this proposal by the Republican People's Party Group because many examples of the town of Mersin, which are mentioned here, are the same things that apply in our province of Antalya. Mr. Samani wished well. I don't know if the numbers increase numerically from the past to the present, changing the facts in Antalya, so production increases every year. Today, we had a congressman upstairs saying that every year's budget is more than the last one, and if you look at the republic's governments, it's 10%, it's 20%, except during the crisis, except during the war. So, if you look at it every year, whatever government it is, it will increase to the next year. Although there are no extraordinary conditions, when you look at it as a current, the informal domestic product is constantly increasing from here; we look at it really; if there's not a huge decline in it, it protects those levels. Now, here, dear friends, you sing beautifully, but how many times has the price of inputs increased in agriculture? How many times has the price of the products increased? Now, if we're not looking at these, it's just, where's the production going up, who's going up, which farmer's going up, how many farmers are putting them on the street? Today, I asked our friends -- fresh -- I mean, I'm looking at 10 cents a cucumber here, and one of them was crying, saying: "It was five cents, I took it away, it's 40 or 50 tons of cucumber." He says, "It's not worth what I'm selling." Now, these are the facts, and yet I have faxes. I asked our friends: "What's the latest?" I said, "It's about prices like this." I see, here's 50 cents, 40 cents, eggplant, 25 cents, 50 cents, 40 cents, so there's nothing worth a dollar, nothing over 50 cents. Well, we're looking back -- our friends have written in the question motion, where Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk and his friends have signed -- the prices of a few months ago are on the new agenda, and I've looked at the date of the motion. And again, the same way that you guys are always comparing, you know, three or four times, five times, six times the amount of input that's going up. I'm looking at prices, which are either right next to you or 35 cents or 40 cents below your 2002 level. What's the farmer gonna do now? Dear friends, there are serious problems, demands from different sectors, brokers, merchants, associations. I'd like to take this opportunity to present it to you. The important things here are... the confusion has increased after this law has been passed. In different ways, our manufacturers, our brokers, our traders have complaints and demands. It's not an editor, it's an insurmountable one, because we've created a code, and there's a lot of flaws in it, and it's not based on the law. I'm going to give you an example. Plus, some of the problems that have been going on in the process... the production zones have been wiped out, so the brokers are almost out of business, they're not attractive, there's a lot of intermediaries involved in meeting consumers. So we think that when we buy from the store or the market and not from the situation, the manufacturer is selling for that much. When we look at Hal's prices, it's clear from the current prices that this isn't so. Plus, there's a serious problem with the Czech Law, as well as the high cost. The constipators don't pay their checks. We're already in trouble, we're not worth anything. They say, "How are we going to pay for this?" We've got loans, we've got support, we can't afford them. They say we can't pay them. My dear friends, the distress here, along with this law, has been largely disabled. There have been changes in the customs of the municipalities, some arrangements have been made, but we have warned that they will be unable to function from now on. In fact, the information we're getting right now suggests that these conditions have become inoperable. We're looking at traders who are in the business of brokering, whose rights have become rent-free. They say we don't know if it's going to be permanent. It's a vocational thing from a father to a son. They say and demand that it should be relocated instead of renting. Here, beyond that, of course, we put something that the broker can't sell to the broker, so he sends it. I'm going to get it somewhere. You can't get it. They say it can only be done in a state. In this case, the broker is not allowed to be a merchant, and I can't buy this time. In the title of Tuccar, the marketer sells goods, but can sell wholesale from here. He puts it in storage, but in this case, the goods don't become what they are. It goes straight through, it's unregistered, and when the middlemen interfere, it comes at a different price. In fact, there are complaints that even some wholesaler markets have started to take them as merchants before they can become them. Most importantly, we have set up a new state of affairs system, and there are no entrances, and sales are in distress, he says. Our friends have complaints that the system doesn't quite fit in here. Now, Mr. Samani, we're supporting each other. He said, but friends, we're making a mistake here. We support the land in all this agricultural support. We need to support direct production of the manufacturer, so let's give it to whoever's producing it and making it. There's a lot of injustice going on. It's in all the provinces; I've talked to the manufacturers in Mersin and Antalya, and someone's getting in the way of the producers, the political stuff, and somewhere in the middle of it, there's land, or land, or as a contractor, or as an owner, and we're encouraging it. Whether he's producing it or not, we can't control it properly or we can't. So let's change this system, let's change the bride, direct production may be something else, but whoever brings us the saplings, let's bring him a different tax, bring him an exception, bring him a discount, do something, and encourage the manufacturer directly. Otherwise, we can't plan the supply this time. If we put it in production, it could also lead to a healthier supply plan. We also told him about the drug residue problem, but it's almost over, or it's over, we were upstairs discussing the budget of our State Department, the Plan Budget Commission. I think it's over, the guys are pointing. I can't control them all while I'm in-out, by the way -- thank you -- because of a busy day. Thus, we have just discussed that because of the Syrian issue, our economic relations with Russia, this export of fruit and vegetables to Syria and Iraq, have been severely reduced. This was sent back not only because of the trace of medicine, but as an indirect embargo of certain countries -- for example, not all things in Russia are related to drugs -- some fruits and vegetables that went from Antalya. Politically, when the crisis strikes, it reflects directly here. So, the bill for the Syrian issue is not just the money we spent on those refugees at the border, but in other ways, they come back to us as bills. Indeed, our brokers are in a great deal of trouble. I also told you about the Czech Law, and we've talked about it here before, and when we remove it, at least if we increase the amount of guarantees in the banks to a certain extent, the complaints started to become too much. Especially in this industry, people wouldn't accept it because it had a little deterrent. Now, when the shells don't pay the checks, the brokers are now closing or closing in on most of the west conditions in Antalya. Something's seriously wrong. It's in other sectors, but you're getting a lot bigger because they're taking checks that way. Dear friends, one of the important issues here is the regulation, the Istanbul Fruit Vegetable Brokers and Traders Association filed a lawsuit against the District Attorney for this to be annulled. The summary also states that the regulation issued here does not include issues that are not included in the law. The conclusion is that it is said that it is not necessary to be removed from the subsidiary of Article 3 (m) of Article 32 and Article 20 of the Interim Article 20 because there is no place for it in the Constitution. There's the concept of a professional organization, there isn't. Another thing is that our friends have to be members of the associations in order to become a professional organization. Those associations are supposed to be members of the Federation. Yan is unconstitutionally opposed to basic rights and homework; you can't force anyone, real or legal person to belong to a place, an association, an organization, but when he's not in this situation, he can't take advantage of those rights. So, there's a case that our association has filed, and we're asking for a review of this regulation, but there's no one in the government. Such an important thing is being discussed, we're looking at Mr. Minister of Agriculture, and they promise to go off the agenda some other time, but unfortunately these brokers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...problems of vegetables and fruit producers continue. I hope these changes are made, and they'll be able to breathe, so I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0257par0069	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Salih Koca, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0258par0072	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute your high council. In this week's programme, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is specifically planning to improve the quality of service for our citizens, to increase public satisfaction, to ensure greater participation in public administration, to meet the efficiency of public administration, and the increasing expectations of public service, to bring democracy to its further roots, and to talks with the Metropolitan Municipality Act, which shall lead to some Laws and Laws and Decisions.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0259par0074	The bill has been changed, and you don't know it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0258par0075	In the name of our country and our nation's future, I feel this work would be more appropriate, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0260par0077	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Tuesday 6,11,2012 (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 338th draft law in "The Bill of Laws and Other Affairs From Commissions" shall be adopted into the fourth place and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this; Until the completion of talks on Wednesday (November 7th 2012) on the 338th row bill in the unification of the 338th row, until the completion of the 338th draft bill in the unscheduled agreement on Thursday (November 8, 2012); On Friday, November 9, 2012, until the meeting of Friday's merger, until the 195th legislature, the talks were completed; Until Sunday's November 11, 2012, when the talks were finalized until the 237th draft law in the merger; Until Monday (November 12th, 2012) the meeting of the 219th legislature, until the end of the talks; Until the completion of the daily schedules in the following combinations at 2 p.m. if the daily programs are not completed; To continue his work, On Saturday, November 10, 2012, the President's work was to complete his presentations to the General Assembly; On Tuesday (November 13, 2012), the main proposals for the genealogical proposals (11/19, 11/16 and 11/17) were to be taken to the first, second, second, and third, respectively, and to continue the talks on whether or not to be taken under Article 99 (November 13, 2012) to be met on Tuesday (November 13, 2012), and to meet verbal questions in this joint, and to continue with the talks on 11/19, 11/16, 11/17, 11/17, 11/17, and 11/17. On Wednesday (November 14, 2012), the agenda of the original proposals for the genealogical proposals (11/15, 11/18, 11/20 and 11/21) was held on Wednesday (November 14, 2012) in order for the "Accession on Special Aged Affairs" to be taken into the rankings of one hundred and eleven/15, 11/18, and 11/21, until further discussion of the primary geneting proposals on the basis of Articles of the Constitution according to Article 99/18, 11/20 and 11/21; The Charter of 338 Row 91 of the Charter. In accordance with the clause, it is considered the basic law, and its parts are in the form of the accompanying ruler, It's recommended. By the Metropolitan City Law and by the Law and by the Law The Bill of the Law for Change [[1/690]] Number of Articles in Sections Articles 1. Articles 1 to 20 are 20. 2. Articles 21 through 37 19 (Temporary 1 and temporary 2nd Nurettin Canikli is a member of Giresun.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0114	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Yeah, we just heard the content of our group proposal. With our group proposal -- if our group proposal is accepted by the Supreme Assembly -- we are mainly planning to discuss the talks of Metropolitan Bill 338 for this week and recommend that negotiations be held. As a matter of fact, our group proposal was designed in this framework. As of the hours of work, today, according to the decision made earlier, it is now 24 a.m., again, according to our Parliament's decision. It will be studied until 00, and this is the time of work, and there is no change in that. November 7th, which is tomorrow, Wednesday, we demand that the work be carried out by the end of Bill 338.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0262par0117	You're so ambitious!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0263par0118	Let the one who sent you come!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0119	We demand it, we demand it from the High Assembly, we offer it to the highest Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0262par0120	What will you do if you fail to keep that promise? Are you in?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0264par0121	Do you believe that when you say it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0122	We present it to the High Council. Likewise, if these meetings can't be finished on Wednesday, Thursday will be 24. It's not limited to 00, so it's 24 a.m. These studies will continue on Thursday without limiting to 00, and again, until the completion of Lawwork 338 rows.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0265par0123	Nurettin Bey, you'll see that the group will be in control of our minds!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0124	On Friday, November 9, 2012, we propose and plan to discuss business until the 195th legislature of the Law. It is the Law Bill 195, the Bill of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Mority. On Saturday, our coven is at 14 o'clock. It will be opened at 00, and only on that day, November 10th, the anniversary of Ataturk will be commemorated by groups, each group, the political party group, and then we will leave the talks there, and we will not continue, if our proposal is accepted. Fourteen on Saturday. We'll only be meeting at 00 to discuss the memorial content of that day, and we won't be able to continue working on Saturday after these meetings. And on Sundays and Mondays, we'd like to suggest that we discuss the transactions until Bill 237 on Sundays. It is the Law Bill 237 rows, drafting the Act on Tourism Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. And on Monday, we tried to make a sort of plan, in a framework that would allow other jobs to be discussed until the 219th row bill. This is the Law Bill 219, drafting a draft bill in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. We also have a proposal to discuss the seven motions for genes for our six ministers regarding next week. Next week, on Tuesday (November 13th 2012), we propose that we meet until the end of the 3 19s, 16s, and 17 primary gene proposals, and we propose that the other 4 geneorial motions be met again by Wednesday's end. There was a motion for a geneorization later, but when the Council was called to a meeting, it hadn't entered our tent yet, or rather it hadn't been published or distributed. So we couldn't plan it. That, and if it does, if there's another one coming with it... it seems that we're going to have to do this whole gene pool thing together after all.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0266par0129	The Prime Minister is being scolded, but shouldn't we give him the benefit of the doubt here? If the Prime Minister deserves a brush...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0130	No, I'm not... Mr. Vural, I'm just saying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0266par0131	No, the Prime Minister's been scolding... and you need to support the gene. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0132	From now on, I'm going to see all the genes. I'm telling you. Oh, and we have an example, based on that. It's just an identification, not a comment, just an identification.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0267par0133	There are some ministers you're not happy with, let's take them with us, come!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0134	So I just want to say that we're prepared for this kind of style, Mr. Vural, that's all I'm saying. So, if they come, we have to make them the same way... because the House also has to make laws, other studies. So we need to do that plan. The most optimal... of course, I mean, we're...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0268par0135	Yeah, yeah, he does the budget, he does the law, he does it all, he does it all at the same time!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0136	But of course, if we spread it out, if it's so common, there's no way that we can do other things, the actual function will work. So we're going to find an optimal balance.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0268par0137	It looks so optimal!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0138	Because this, in general, is the kind of collective geneor that there isn't much in Turkish political history that I know of.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0269par0139	But this is just the beginning!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0140	So, if it's going to develop as a new style, then naturally, we have to plan that within the framework of the Parliament's work, and at other times, we're going to have to do the main activities of our Parliament, the legislature activities.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0270par0141	We tried Thursday night, it's very efficient, until 4 a.m.!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0269par0142	We'll finish at seven. You've worked your way up to four.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0261par0143	...as you said, we'll be able to do the legislature work. So there's no way we're going through this by just discussing the gene. Dear friends, next week on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, as I was trying to present, we'll be meeting in a collective meeting of the genes. We'll continue to discuss the next bill and proposals on Thursday -- I'll tell you for the next week -- so this is our group proposal, which includes this. If accepted, we will continue to carry out our work in the framework of the plan and the proposal that we are trying to draw. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0271par0147	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0150	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, every Tuesday, we had to renegotiate a classic negotiation, a conversation, I'm afraid. I told you last week, this recommendation from the ruling group, the Council of Advisors, it's not going to go on like this, it's going to change. He's changed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0273par0153	We've got the gene.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0154	But you know the stories of Timur. Last time, it was 24 a.m. last week. We agreed to work until 00. Group management's pissed. You'll be working until the end. When it's over, then it's over. God help you, God help us. Dear friends, no one does evil to mankind. If the whole world were to come together, believe me, he couldn't do it. Now, look, I mean, forgive me, but it doesn't give me any peace of mind, you know, every time I talk like that. In this General Assembly, you and most of you in this House -- you didn't have a lot of it, but with what happened -- we came up with five laws over 2,500 in the last term, six laws, in an agreement of about ten days. They were so law-worthy, AKP MPs. You have every right not to listen at this time of night. Your right -- the word "conjuration" is wrong -- I present to you the cause of this abuse. Here, dear elders, here is our former Speaker, here's the Minister, here's the party manager, here's the minister. I mean, it's hard to understand what it's like to try wrong every time, to insist wrong. You're torturing yourself. So this is how you discipline this big group? I mean, what's our sin when you're torturing yourself? Do these opposition party groups have any sins? What am I saying?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0274par0158	Look what time it is, we haven't started the work yet, we haven't started the law!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0159	Dear friends, if we compromise the agenda of the House, we'll have no problems. In ten days on the agenda of the House, which we agreed upon, this Parliament passed five fundamental laws above 2,500 articles from this General Assembly. Read the open transcripts, watch the footage, see what results can be obtained. We have friends who remember how we passed the Turkish Law of Debts, the Turkish Trade Law, the laws of implementation. So, what happens now? What's the big deal, an elliptical curve? We've reached 9:30 of the hour, but it's ten o'clock, 22 o'clock at night. We'll be on the agenda at 00. What good is your law to this nation after this, for God's sake? What happens? Now, this is the city law, the whole city law. You've been talking for over a year, hiding it from your own MPs, hiding it from your own ministers, hiding it from Congress, hiding it from the press, hiding it from the public, bringing it in three days before the festival, take it! Dear friends, you're changing the foundation of the Turkish administration system. You're transforming Turkey into another system, but you don't want it to be discussed, debated, debated. How's that? You announced last week, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Sunday, Monday... Mr. Prime Minister's meeting today at the group meeting, the day before, so, I won't retort, but you'll take this to your death, no one will leave Ankara. It's a little heavy, so it's kind of insulting to me.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0275par0163	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0164	There's no such thing! Okay, if that's what you think, but there's no answer to this question.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0275par0165	We didn't see anything like that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0166	There's no answer to that question.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0276par0167	We listened on the screens, we listened.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0277par0168	Lies, lies.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0169	Friends, without negotiating such an important law, without looking for a compromise, this decision to remove it from the General Assembly, its insistence is similar to cutting a tree with a blind saw. It's ten o'clock in the night, and you still can't enter the law, and you still can't. This Civil Code gives the opposition all kinds of strength to resist such compulsions by the government. What are you going to do? Why would you do that?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0278par0170	We need to change the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0171	First we have to change the Civil Code. There's an easier one, Mr. Runir. I mean, we have to end the opposition! So a democratic democracy without opposition would be better for you!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0278par0172	We have to run the coven.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0173	Dear friends, look, the necessity of the matter concerns you. He doesn't care if the Prime Minister ordered it, he doesn't care if it's somewhere else, but I'll work with him... your obligation is not my obligation. It's against the Constitution and it's against humanity. You don't have the right to employ these MPs until 4 a.m. by 5 a.m., no such thing. I'm not talking to TV, I'm talking to you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0279par0174	They have no respect for the congressman.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0280par0175	We made a promise to everyone.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0176	Which nation did you promise? It's not the public's agenda you're arguing about, gentlemen. It's not the people's demands, it's yours. You're shutting down villages, you're shutting down municipalities, you're changing the rights of elected people, you're changing the institutional law of the state, and in our view of the future, you're bringing a law that will have very bad consequences for both our nation's unity and our state's independence and political unity. Dear friends, as I said before, you do evil to yourselves, you do evil to the people, you do wrong, you do wrong, you do wrong, you do wrong. That's the truth of the matter. Dear friends, that's not what I'm about. And then there's the seriousness of it. Now, you see, we've given gene questions, and every day these genes will come. There are now eight gene questions on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0281par0179	Double stitches!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0180	Mr. Group Vice President brought in today on the Counsellor Council, the AKP Consultative Council (E.K.) for the next week's sessions on November 13, 20, 27, 15:00-20. 00, 2:00-20. It'll be working between the hours of 00, you say. Is this really how we're going to work, Mr. Canicli, or are you going to change these hours next Tuesday?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0282par0181	I told you, we're gonna be working on these questions till the end.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0182	I mean, dear friends, be serious, be serious!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0282par0183	Mr. Chancer, you're giving me the gene and we're not seeing each other, so what do we do?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0184	I mean, this coven's agenda is serious. It's important. I'd like to tell you another thing. Dear friends, I wasn't here last Thursday for a special reason. The owner blew up a bomb-loaded car near our gas station, so I couldn't be found in the meantime. But here, at this time of night, there have been very serious, very troubling, very upsetting discussions around my name. My friend Mustafa Elitaş, my brother, whom I wished for urgent healing, said, "I do not allow my rights." He made some very inappropriate statements, which hurt me very much. It's not right. I don't use the word "lie," I don't describe it to anyone. But it's a much heavier statement to make that is not true... so it's cruel to say what isn't true or what isn't true, according to our faith, that's the definition of cruelty. And oppression is followed by the curse of Allah. Dear friends, I pay my respects to Mr. Elitas. Of course, everyone has rights over everyone.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0283par0187	He's not here right now, so talk while he's here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0188	Dear friends, we're people, we work in the same place. We have every right to each other. Mr. Elitaş says you don't give me your blessing. And I ask of him ['Iesa (Jesus), son of Maryam (Mary), 'Iesa (Jesus), son of Maryam (Mary), 'Iesa (Jesus), son of Maryam (Mary), son of Maryam (Mary), 'Iesa (Jesus), son of Maryam (Mary), son of Maryam But the strange thing is, it's as if I don't approve of my father's debt. I've read the transcripts from here. I'm so sorry. It's possible that my grief has made him ill.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0284par0189	One of the two pilgrims is lying, one of the two pilgrims. Which one is it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0190	I mean, I mean well. God knows our hearts. Dear friends, the truth of the matter is that what I said to Mr. Elitas, when it was being discussed, is this: I have no demand of you, and yours is my gratitude. Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu has witnessed this. I don't have a request, so we have a convention, we have an evening meeting, so let's meet up and work so hard. In the talks at the point, I promised him: I don't want you, you have the credit. What's the appreciation? Here's not to discuss the financial rental law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But after the National Movement Party went to the meeting, Mr. Elitaş, on his own accord, tried to discuss that law here, and then he said that he met with me in the debates, and that I gave him permission. This statement is not true. God knows our friends are here as witnesses. I have to give you this information because...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0285par0195	Mr. President, the speaker is saying some very valuable things, would you mind turning on the microphone?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0286par0196	You can hear me.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0272par0197	I've been keeping you busy with my name last week, and I'm asking you for your blessing.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0287par0198	The AKP isn't the vice president of the group, so...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0286par0199	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Ramadan Can is a member of the Party for Justice and Development, who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0288par0203	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. First of all, in last week's incident -- of course, our Group Vice President will respond -- our Group Vice President mentioned that Mr. Shandir had not made his rights lawful on condition of the incident he was talking about. MHP has made a phone call to the Deputy President of the Group, Mr. Shandir. I believe there's a disconnect in the rumor. Of course, Elitaş will answer.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0289par0205	Go get your band from the outside!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0288par0206	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0290par0207	Why are you getting in the way, bro? We also listened to Mr. Elitas, and listened to Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0288par0208	The group's acting president, Mr. Canicli, has given us information about the agenda here. I especially want to say:
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0290par0209	What do you know?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0291par0210	You play catch-up now and then?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0288par0211	In the beginning of the Civil Law, the law does not protect abuse of rights.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0292par0212	Roll call, roll call. Call group, roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0288par0213	So if a right is being abused, it cannot be met by the law; it is the initial provisions of the Civil Law. It's his body that's noble in the situations where the moral intent is required. It's the civil law. Of course, the opposition will use the rights of the Civil Code, but abuse of those rights will never be met in the law. With our group proposal, we propose starting today's negotiations by taking the Metropolitan Law Bill 338 to the fourth place on the agenda. On Tuesday, November 13, 2012, we propose no verbal questions discussed. On Wednesday (November 7th), and today we will continue the work of the Metropolitan City City Legislature. If the General Assembly appreciates the work until it's over, we'll put it to your vote. There's an international contract on Friday, November 9, 2012, number 195. Until the completion of this international contract between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Morityus, we will continue to discuss the legislation and proposals between them until international agreements in their departments are completed. On November 10th, the General Assembly will open on Saturday at 2:00 p.m., and we plan to close the General Assembly after the talks were made on the day of the Memorial of Ataturk. On Sunday and Monday... there's an international contract for the bill on Sunday... at 237 rows. On Monday, there is an international contract between Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) and the government of the Republic of Turkey. Until these negotiations are completed, we will continue to discuss the bill and proposals. Next week on Tuesday and Wednesday, we'll set aside two days of the House for discussion of the motions for the geneorization. On Wednesday, Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, our Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, and again we plan to discuss the motions for the genome of our Deputy Prime Minister, Bkent Arinc, on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, Mr. Ömer Dinçer, I hope that we will reject the motions to the general council against Mr. Nihat Ergün.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0293par0221	How do you decide so much in advance without even listening?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0288par0222	We recommend that the Metropolitan City Law bill be discussed in two sections as the main law. I salute your delegation with the wishes of the EC PARTY's group proposal to be accepted.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0294par0225	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0295par0226	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0294par0227	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0295par0228	Sir, Mr. Can has made a statement as to the matter between me and someone else, as well as my last name. I'd like to bring an explanation, if I may.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0294par0229	Why did he pick on you, what did he say and what did he pick on you, Mr. Shandır? What I'm hearing is...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0295par0231	Sir, I mean, I need to make that clear.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0294par0232	No, what did he say and pick on you, Mr. Shandir? In order for me to make a promise, you have to tell me what he said, so I'm asking.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0295par0233	You listened, sir, and you listened, so Mr. Elitas said what I said about Mr. Elitas was not true.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0296par0234	He says it's not true.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0294par0235	That way...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0295par0236	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0294par0237	No, but he didn't say it wasn't true, he didn't say it, I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0297par0239	You were taking the AKP group deputy there without asking.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0294par0240	Mr. Chancer, there's no bullying, I'll tell you the truth. Here, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0298par0244	It's never a tease thing. Dear friends, I mean, I didn't enjoy saying it here so much.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0299par0246	What does this have to do with us? What does it have to do with Congress?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0298par0247	Not at all, but last week...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0300par0248	What's the matter with you?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0301par0249	Are you busy? You're free to go if you're busy.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0298par0250	...you never asked that question when it was being discussed, Mr. Congressman, what does it have to do with anything? I repeat, dear friends, at last week's advisory board meeting, Mr. Elitaş, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu and the Deputy Chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party, this is my statement: I have no demands because I have already made a request here concerning the President of the General, not Mr. Elitaşs. I have a request from the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. And Mr. President-General was very disturbed by that debate, Mr. Group has apologized to the General Assembly through our Vice President. That's why we've been scolded. That's why I'm telling you. I mean, I, Mr. Canikli, don't have a special request from any of the members of the group, after which, no, because they can't carry it. As a result, with this intention, I have no claim from you to this decision, whether you work or not. We're going, you do what you want. It's not right to move here in this form. It's not right, it's not right. It's a cruel thing to say what's not true, or to say what's not true, or to say what's not true, or to say what's not true, and to say what's dishonest. Look, here's the proof of this, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, says: "Look, precious MP, if there's tension here, it's about this tension that you're putting our fellow MPs under all suspicion, and if you expect us to stand behind every promise we make, you're wrong."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0302par0253	He's right.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0298par0254	Here's the statement of Mr. Elitas. He's in his statement... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Elitaş has wronged me and you. I give him my blessing. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0303par0259	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party has made a statement against the group's proposal...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0304par0264	We want enough numbers for the meeting, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0303par0265	Sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0304par0266	Roll call...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0303par0267	There's more to it. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0305par0269	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge against the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party, and I salute you all. The group proposal of the Justice and Development Party is a proposal for the re-organisation of the Parliament's working days and hours due to the exception of the second joke in Article 54 of the Parliament's Civil Charter. My dear friends, the hours of the House have been counted in Article 54 of the Civil Code as a rule. According to this rule, the General Assembly meets Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday between 3:00 and 7:00 p.m. And as exceptions -- you know these exceptions -- there are events when it's necessary -- when it's against the rule -- that can make it necessary to work. In this case, on the proposal of the Council of Counsellors, the General Assembly is concerned that this work can be changed by day and time. However, as in all areas in Turkey, exceptions were the rules in parliament, the rules were the exception. The rule of law and written rules have been replaced by a complete joy. Although the work of the Parliamentary General Assembly and its commissions should be done according to Parliamentary Council and Constitutional Constitutional Assembly, the Constitutional Parliament's Council, and the Parliamentary Assembly's General Assembly's Parliamentary Assembly, has also established its foundations. It is said that this, my lord, is the way of the House. What will you do with the legislatures of Parliament? First you will look at the House of Assembly, and look at the Constitution. Where there are no written rules, no rules of law, the rules apply. If there's a rule of law, if there's a law, there's no law, my dear friends. Now, with this group's proposal, here, it's called until it's finished in terms of the subject. Well, 24 hours a day. Now, we've seen it in the third judicial package. After 24 hours, the work continued. AKP and Deputy Minister of Group CHP have come to the ranks of the CHP and said, "Let's take a break from the work, friends." Or at that time, sir, to the opposition, you may withdraw your speakers or do not ask for a meeting on the proposals or on the articles. They have requested such a demand. My dear friends, if the conditions of this House's work are truly created, it is not the opposition's responsibility, it is the ruling party's responsibility. Now, once it's over, it's out of the question. 24 hours a day, you'll be fine until it's over. Now that you've put it in, it's not over on Wednesday -- the city law, the city law -- it's over 24 hours, and it's not over on Thursday, it's 24 hours, the lawmakers are going to sleep. Now, shall I come in here and show you those photos one by one? Shall I expose how the AKP lawmakers sleep? I take them all out, I show them at various meetings. Now we're all here on a legislature. Why are we pushing each other? After that, my friend comes out, says he's talking about abuse of rights. My dear friends, this Parliament is not the House of Justice and Development, nor is it the Assembly of the Republican People's Party, or the Assembly of the People's Party, or the Assembly of the BDP. This Parliament is the Assembly of the Turkish nation. This is the most important focus of the nation's will. Therefore, it is wrong to count the majority of the Parliament here as the will of the nation and to rule out parliament as the Parliament of the nation, in fact, we as lawmakers have to stand down, we all have to fight back. So I've got the majority, I'll do what I want, and then you'll get up, and then you'll talk about whether or not you've been abused when the opposition tries to take the rights of the House and the Constitution. My dear friends, everyone has to act according to the rules of good faith, which are above the law that gives them a right to a right. The person who wants to act according to the rules of good faith will first be well-intentioned. By enforcing the majority of parliament, he will not come with such a imposition, only to accept democracy as the system of the majority in parliament, but to compromise once. Now, my dear friends, look, the General Assembly... is counting on when this bill will be, not working on November 10th. Mr. Canikli explained, here, on the anniversary of the death of Ataturk, November 10th... but it's not put here. So why don't you put the special agenda here on November 10, 2012, because of the death of Ataturk, and why don't you worry about it? You're saying that until the completion of the presidential presentations to the General Assembly, Canikli. But, brother, instead of protesting now, you'd write a sentence from there. You know it's the day of the death of Ataturk, November 10th, and so do I. You'd write it here, what do you mean, dear friends of the President's General Assembly? Now, my dear friends, the proposal of the Justice and Development Party on the other hand, says that according to Article 91 of the Council of Parliament, this Law stipulates that the law of the city shall be passed as the fundamental law. Now, this demand is against the Constitution once and the 91st Article of Parliamentary Council. Why is it out of the ordinary? And I'm telling you, the basic law is an exception, not a rule, but you -- above it is God, have mercy -- you stand up, you push away the authority, everything you have to use as an exception, so lift up your fingers, put down your fingers, put down your fingers, you use it as a rule. It says here that the Charter or Law can be discussed as the basic law. The General Assembly can allow it to meet as the basic law. What do you mean, meeting as the basic law? You don't discuss matter, you don't even read material. You'll be reading in episodes. Now, he made it clear here that there are general principles that will systematically or comprehensively change a legal branch... does that include this Law? ..or the majority of personal or social life, the basic concepts based on private laws in its field, harmony among special laws, the obligation to maintain integrity in its area and connections between the substances, and to be subject to private discussion and voting procedures in previous periods, the law can be considered as a fundamental law. For one thing, a political party swallowing the principle of democratic law state, a political party in this country that does not want to live and rule without a trial, does not always take the exception. It does not argue that these laws should be democratically debated, debated in commissions as much as possible, accession provided, the opinion of relevant institutions and organisations, and that they should be made only by voting the matter names before they are read in the General Assembly, friends. What are you trying to do? On the one hand, you say you're a Democrat, while in this country you try to put everyone to sleep with the songs of advanced democracy, but at the same time, you don't tolerate the implementation of advanced democracy, not even democracy. After that, you rise from this stand, blaming the opposition, which you consider certain to be his rights in the House of Parliament. Why are you doing this? Because you know you've imposed it, and you know that both the House and the opposition will resist your compulsions. Well, don't do that, guys. Come... since you think this law is in the best interest of the country and the nation, if we'd all discussed it together, we'd get opinions from relevant institutions and organizations. We all know what a law-making technique is. We all know that the legislative process is not effectively and efficiently carried out in both drafting the law and negotiating the commissions. What do we want to do, grab and grab? After that, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot reconcile. It is not my job to reach a compromise in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm the MP for the opposition party. These people have assigned me to oppose the ruling party, not to give praise to the ruling party. If he had made me an MP as the ruling party, given me the authority to use the power of state to address problems, then you would have done the opposition.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0306par0282	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0305par0283	In what part of the world has been seen, an opposition is often blamed for its opposition. Opposition is what people do for him. The nation has given you power, the task of solving problems. While you solve these problems, the problem of the opposition, this problem, regardless of the problem of power, is your duty, friends, to resolve these problems in compromise, unity and integrity, as a principle. If you're actually defending this country as a democratic law state, if you're digesting this democratic rule of law, you need to do it first, because the principle of democratic law state is that those who run this country, whether it's political or administrative, are open to control, can tolerate control.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0306par0284	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0305par0285	You're using all kinds of powers to escape control, and you're only making Parliament a place where the ruling party MPs lift their fingers and take them down.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0306par0286	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0305par0287	Look, guys...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0306par0288	Mr. Ozturk, don't force me to vote.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0305par0289	The great philosopher, Sartori, has come to his democracy...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0306par0290	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0305par0291	...for countries that have crashed into a recession, he says: "If the fingers had brains, there would not have been dragons swallowing democracy. You will have victory, not your fingers, but your people. Please stop pushing people to rely on your majority in Parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0307par0295	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0308par0298	Request roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0307par0299	I'll submit the EC PARTY group proposal to your votes, but there's a roll call. We'll get the names of the MPs who requested roll call. Mr. Vural, Mr. Bal, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Günal, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Kalajcı, Mr. Ilm, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Özensoy... I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the AK PARTI group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My main law proposal (2/303) has not been discussed and concluded by the Commission since your presidency was transferred to the commission. Turkey's Grand National Assembly of 37th District of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I demand and demand that my legal proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. 12.03.2012 Offered by Hope Oran, İstanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0309par0321	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. It's about freedom of the press, press rights, but unfortunately, this evening, in Parliament this semester, our people can't watch this live. We are facing such a ban. Again, unfortunately, it's been about a year since I submitted this bill to Parliament. A year later, we get the opportunity to bring that law up, unfortunately. Which brings me to your appreciation... Yesterday, you know, in Istanbul, the Freedom Platform took a walk with Journalists. What did this platform want yesterday? What did he say in the streets, in the squares? They want a free working environment, and they've demanded that the pressure on the press be lifted because journalists today, those who practice this profession, in every way, operate their professions under duress. The prime minister said at the meeting on Sunday that when it comes to freedoms of their own, the Democrats become banned when it comes to others. In fact, the Prime Minister pointed right at himself with those words. Now, as we looked at it, ten years ago, eleven years ago, in the election declaration, the ruling party had three yίs: bans, corruption and poverty. Look, when we looked at these last few months in the fight against those prohibitions, the veterans and the families of the martyrs demanded a meeting for peace, they were not allowed. The people wanted to celebrate in the republical rally, in the square at Republic Day, in the first legislature, in the nation's square, unfortunately it was not accepted. Look, the students demand free education, they're being arrested. That's where public workers demand strike when you look at Turkish Airlines, and they're banned from strike. In Hatay, our citizens who live there want to somehow announce their voices about peace, it is not allowed to be allowed, and at the end of these bans, private authorities have finally become such that Turkey, look, today is a witness today to the 26th Chief of General Staff, who has served with Turkey -- the 26th Chief of Staff, the bloody PKK director. This is the judgment, the law of Turkey, which has been imposed on us today. Now, when we look at this law, what do we demand in this law that we're proposing today? We say that journalists should be given union obligations. I don't know, do you object to that? We say, at least let the intern journalists have their rights. Do you object to that, I don't know? And again, in 2008, when you lift it up, it's the restoration of its share of wear and tear. I don't know if you object to that. And we say, this is a very important place: media bosses are not supposed to go directly or indirectly into public tenders. Politics and trade are not supposed to connect. I don't know, do you accept that? Again, we say: let Internet journalism have a legal status where 22 million, 23 million, is in that area. I don't know, do you accept that? Now, valuable lawmakers, organized press, free press. Free press means free Turkey. That's what we want, that's what we want. Come on, if we're talking about advanced democracy, more democracy, more freedoms, let's take this law on freedom of the press together. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0310par0338	Thank you. Now, on behalf of an MP, Oktay Soshi, İstanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, the General Assembly is humming. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0311par0342	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, Mr. Hope Oran has actually made a suggestion to the core of the issues of our media world and people who are complaining about our media world. He has come before you with the request that this proposal be accepted. When I look at the painting, I have to admit, no matter how much I say two times two is four, no matter how much Hope Oran or any other friend means it, I feel that some of my friends will agree to it, but I still intend to take a few minutes of your time with a hopeful intention. My dear friends, complaining about the media world, complaining about journalists, especially from a long time ago the world of power has been known, and from its point of view, the place where it is right is acceptable. However, it is also necessary to take the measure that will allow this complaint to be removed or at least to be reduced to a minimum, especially the debt of political power. However, I'm not just talking about your power, but the powers before you, or even more clearly, since 1840, when the newspaper Ceridei Paradise was published, political powers have not been focused on this subject that Mr. Hope Oran has brought to your presence, and I have also proposed to the House on one occasion. I don't feel right about it until I've made an exception. That exception is that it was first seized by the Democratic Party's Authority in 1952, and that the National Union Committee, following May 27th, introduced Law 212, again referring to this issue. However, neither of the laws I mentioned have, unfortunately, been enforced. The main element of both laws are the laws that allow journalists to work in the workplace by making a written contract in confidence, guaranteeing union rights. The importance of these laws is to allow the profession, such as journalism, to be filled with quality elements, to multiply them. Unfortunately, the two laws that I'm talking about are not being enforced by the political authorities of the era, not being claimed, as a result of the fact that very talented young people enter journalism for a certain period of time, and then lead to a lack of quality in the profession. The primary of this is the political powers of the era, and I'm sorry to say it's yours for the time being. My dear friends, just as it's important that the 212 law regarding journalists be restored, in fact, in effect, in effect, but practicalized, your political power, I believe, has taken away the journalist's share of wear and tear due to open hostility towards journalists in 2008, as you know. Last April, I asked Mr. Secretary a question in front of you as to whether or not there were any studies on the matter. He told me that a scientific committee was busy with the matter. From that date, the scientific delegation was unable to overcome a two - sentence bill or the reform of the law. Of course, if that's not the case, my dear friends, it's the fact that political power, your power, has not looked at the matter sincerely, and the journalists -- I'm sorry -- are the enemies. I hope this speech changes, and I hope you get political power over the right line. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0312par0349	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. Members of the Justice and Development Party, in the 1st place...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0313par0353	Mr. President, there is no decision on this matter. There's a previous agenda. There is no decision made today, so there is no decision made today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0314par0354	The group proposal has passed, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0313par0355	No, there's no decision on today or six.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0315par0356	Mr. President, there's a decision there regarding seven of them, and there's no way to discuss this law in terms of time, because there is no decision made regarding it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0316par0357	Mr. Tarhan, I can't hear your voice, sir, please enter the system, we can't hear your voice from here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0313par0358	No such decision, no decision, no decision made today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0317par0359	Mr. President, about today...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0313par0360	There's no decision.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0317par0361	Yes, I do.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0313par0362	Not today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0317par0363	No, 24 from last week. There's a decision to work until 00. It goes in order, so it's in order.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0313par0364	So it's available, not a decision made.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0318par0365	Mr. President, there is no decision to be passed as a fundamental law, I do not see such a decision. There's no time-interview. I suggest we have a formal discussion about this.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0317par0366	We'll negotiate according to the general provisions, Mr. President, according to this order.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0313par0367	You said it was a decision, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0318par0368	There's no decision made, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0313par0369	There's no decision made today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0319par0370	The one that was taken last week...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0371	Okay, I'll answer...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0321par0372	Mr. President, it's not a collective decision, it's a daily decision.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0373	One moment, sir... one moment, Congressman... The decision adopted in the 13th Union dated 30/10/2012: ▪6 and 7 November 2012 on Tuesday and Wednesday (November 2012) is to discuss other jobs from the Commission's side of the law draft and Proposals and other jobs from the Commissions, which cannot be discussed with oral questions or other audit issues.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0322par0375	Is that on the agenda, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0376	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0322par0377	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0378	It's on the inside cover, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0323par0379	Sir, you said that the decision was taken. You said that this agenda was predetermined, right? So there's no decision made today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0380	Yeah, it's on the inside. There's been a decision made before, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0324par0381	No, there's another decision made on him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0323par0382	So there's been a decision made earlier on whether verbal questions and audit issues were discussed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0383	Yes, it's on the inside of the agenda, sir. I'm reading it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0323par0384	So this isn't about today's decision.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0385	No, it's not about today's decision, it's about 30/12/2012...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0325par0386	There's been a decision made today, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0387	I read a decision that was accepted in the 13th Union, sir. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0326par0399	Why aren't these commissions working? You get money from people, you get paid, but you don't work.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0400	We will resume the negotiations of the Plan and Budget Commission Report, with the 3rd ranked Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Act. Commission? No.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0326par0403	No, they're not working. Where are these commissioners, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0404	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0326par0405	Where? They don't work...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0406	I don't know, sir. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0327par0409	Where are they? Where? They live here, sir!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0328par0410	Let's not fool people, they're sitting here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0411	We are starting talks with İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu and 20 MPs; Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs; Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova. The Commission and the Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0329par0414	Mr. President, today...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0415	Wait a second... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0329par0417	Sir, I've been calling you Mr. President since morning.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0418	There's no such procedure, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0329par0419	That's what Article 63 says. No way, sir. You're doing it wrong. (x) 338 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0421	What are you going to say? The Deputy Director of the Group has expressed himself, and I've given you the answer.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0329par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0423	The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 338 rows.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0330par0424	Sir... Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0329par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0426	Congressmans, according to the decision made, this bill is not subject to the...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0330par0427	Mr. President, there is no commission report. Wait a minute... there's no commission report. There's a commission...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0428	Let me read it, and then you'll object, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0330par0429	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0430	Why?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0330par0431	Yes, I will now.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0432	So I'm not going to read it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0330par0433	I'll present it now, sir. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0434	Wait a minute... then do something for a minute. I'll read it, then I'll listen to you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0330par0435	No, sir. Wait a minute, I don't think this commission report...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0436	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0330par0437	I'm going to testify that the will of the committee members has not been removed. Is it possible to discuss a report without the will of the members of the Commission?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0438	Why not? Why isn't there a commission report, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0330par0439	I'll tell you... I'll tell you...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0440	Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with you about your attitude. You're inequality between the two MPs. I've been here wanting promises all morning. You promise Oktay Bey, and you do not give me; there is no such inequality.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0441	Sir, I made a promise to your Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0442	Sir, I want to speak for myself here. Here, the law is clear, plain and simple.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0443	Mr. Vural is not a congressman, but a party's deputy leader; there's a difference between you and him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0444	Mr. President, there is no hierarchical difference between any parliamentarian here. You're inequality here. I want the word here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0445	Then let all the MPs come in, let them come out, let them speak here, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0446	Of course they will, but you're doing it wrong. I'd like a word from you here, if that's all right.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0447	You don't have a say in this, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0448	How come I don't get a say in this?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0449	Of course not.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0450	This Civil Code gives me the right to say, how can you not?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0451	No, he doesn't, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0452	Sir, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0453	Under what circumstances does the Civil Code give you the right to say, it's been determined.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0332par0454	Sir, take what it's about, and then...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0455	I don't know what your attitude is...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0456	You don't have the right to talk whenever you want.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0457	Arguing about the procedure of your attitude... according to Article 63...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0320par0458	In what matter do you want a say in my attitude?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0331par0459	You're being biased. Due to your biased attitude, I'm opening up a legal debate.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0333par0460	You're creating inequality among the MPs.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0334par0461	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0335par0462	Yes, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0336par0463	I'm opening up a discussion of procedure because of your attitude. You're inequality with the Parliamentaries.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0334par0464	Take a request from the Congressman, sir, and it's up to you whether or not to comply. Get the congressman's request.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0335par0465	Yes, what is your request?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0337par0466	If he doesn't have a say in the matter, why are you giving it to him?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0338par0467	Now, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 54 of our Civil Code, the hours are set between 3:00 and 1900. Days, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. That would be a good deed, Mr. President, without shaking your head. You have to listen, so I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0339par0469	It's all right, it's voted.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0338par0470	Now, if you'll excuse me. Look...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0340par0471	Mr. Tanal, I'll take your permission to nod from now on, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0338par0473	Mr. President, the second joke in Article 55 of our Civil Code states that the urgency of work can be extended. It is called that day. If we look at the 1st article of the Civil Code, the merger is called a one-day merger for that day. For him, the fact that you collectively make fifteen days, twenty days, one month's mass work time means a new Civil Code violation of the spirit of the Civil Code, the lawmaker...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0340par0474	Thank you, Mr. Tanal, understood.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0338par0475	Two, I'm afraid you didn't promise me this while I was here to say these things, Mr. Oktay, I'm sorry you gave them to them.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0341par0476	No, no, he didn't promise, I...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0338par0477	You've made a distinction here, and I'd like to open up a legal debate over your segregation.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0342par0478	Please, Mr. Tanal, sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0338par0479	No, sir. The procedure comes before the original, so the 63rd article is clear and clear on this matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0343par0480	Did you just come to this coven?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0338par0481	You're being segregated.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0344par0482	He has that right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0345par0483	Do you want a word in favor or against it, then?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0346par0484	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0345par0485	Here, I'll give you two minutes. What else?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0347par0487	Against you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0345par0488	Who, in turn, will you write it down?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0348par0489	I want it in favor. I'm on your side this time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0349par0490	Against you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0350par0491	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0492	Yes, in favor, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0352par0493	I'm in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0494	Mr. Ozturk, are you in favor or against?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0353par0495	I've been saying that a long time, sir. Look, I said it first, I said it before Mahmoud. Lehte. So look at the reports, I said it first, and I said it before Mahmoud.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0496	Who's the second speaker against you? Yes, Recep is special. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0498	Sir, this attitude of yours is wrong because the Civil Code says...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0499	Mr. Tanal, please, I promise.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0500	Look, the one who's in favor first needs to talk, Mr. President, after the other.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0501	You're the one who wants the word. That's why I'm giving it to you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0502	I want the word, but the Charter says, the one in favor first needs to talk.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0503	Mr. Tanal, you'll object if I don't give it to you first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0504	But I understand, Mr. President. The Civil Code commands it. I mean, when I say that...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0505	I understand, Mr. Tanal, but aren't you the one who wanted the word?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0355par0506	You have to give it to me in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0507	Look, I'm speaking against you. What's at the end of the line has to speak first, Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0508	No, if you don't want to talk, I'll give it to the one in favor. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0510	I want to talk, but first...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0511	Sit down, please, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0512	Sir, look...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0513	So don't invade the House in vain, please... Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0515	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0356par0516	Mr. President, first of all, in favor of...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0517	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0354par0518	Look, the Civil Code says...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0519	You're the one who started the argument, and I'm giving it to you in your favor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0357par0520	Yeah, well, I need to speak in favor, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0521	If you don't realize that, there's nothing I can do, Mr. Tanal. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0358par0522	Mr. President, look, you're insulting me.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0523	I'm not insulting you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0358par0524	Look, I wanted word against word.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0525	Okay, you asked for a word against it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0358par0526	But the Civil Code says that the one in favor first speaks.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0527	Mr. Tanal, you're right. I promise you twice. I'll give it to Mr. Günal. Sit down. I'll give it to Mr. Günal. No, I don't know what you want to do. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0359par0532	In favor or against, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0360par0533	Against...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0534	I mean, really...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0360par0537	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Actually, I'd expect the Deputy Speaker's attitude to be really objective. In the beginning of his non-objective conduct, when he was just reading the Metropolitan Bill of Law, you did not mention my name over there again about the proposals, but when you looked at his head, there was the name of the Great Tanal. Mr. President, why can't you pronounce the name Tanal? I mean, why is this name so overwhelming to you from the beginning?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0351par0540	Mr. Tanal, it seems you have a syndrome. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0360par0541	We need to read the names of all of these law proposals here, there, which of our fellow lawmakers actually made. Article 54 of our Civil Code states that the working days are Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays. Their clocks indicate between 3:00 and 5:00 p.m. The second joke of Article 55 of the Charter states that the deadline can be extended due to the mandatory programme. The 1st article of the Civil Charter: the merger is related to the issues that were opened for that day. Otherwise, six months, one year, four years of collective work time and time will not be discussed. It's very comfortable. Because if the legislator wanted to do that, then there would be no need for the second joke of Article 55 of the Civil Code. I mean, in that sense, what our Speaker is doing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and because of the majority of the ruling group, the process is a total abuse of rights. The abuse of rights is applied in all kinds of relationships, in all kinds of environments. In this respect, I ask the Deputy Speaker, please, I expect you to take an objective stance, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0361par0548	Aye, aye, Mr. Tanal! From now on, I'll follow your instructions, sir! Mehmet Günal, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0362par0551	Antalya MP, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0363par0552	Antalya MP, not Mersin.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0364par0553	So you're doing this for a tease? It's not the Mersin MP, it's Antalya.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0365par0554	Correction, no offense, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0364par0555	What a position you've put the Congressman in with the voters now, sir!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0365par0556	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0366par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. I am indeed in favor of your commitment to Mr. Oktay Vural. The members of the group, of course, have a priority, they represent that group. But, now, we're going back, the argument we had down there just now, before we took a break, we did it yesterday. All of a sudden, without a reason, if the AKP becomes deputy leader, it says, "Here you are." When you come here, you ask for the reason when we're here. That's where we say it. He's just told Mr. Shandir. According to other lawmakers, who, of course, will be the top priority of the group, they speak for the group, but they actually ask us what the next question is, you know, what's he asking us about? He says, "Here you are." And then we say, "What did you promise?" He says, "What did you promise?" He comes here, and then he comes back here. Now, Mr. President, after this hour, you see this happening because of the impositions. We looked at it in the morning, so you said to me, "You're in the sixth place, you can't take any promises." I looked at it, and there's two of them against me, and first of all -- our friends may have been in the middle of it, but -- I got up before everyone else. So we're going through this because you don't see the opposition at the time, so if you're listening to us, you'll already see who's first. When you turn around, let's give them a hand first, if anyone raises their hand. When they're up there, they see all our friends. Whoever wants a word here first... we can talk in Polish. I think your attitude toward Mr. Tanal is correct. Mr. Oktay Vural... but then you'll have to listen to him because all the MPs have something to say. I'm sorry, I can't make any promises. If the lawmakers raise their hands, they may ask for a word in accordance with the Civil Charter, and raise their hand to tell their purpose. It's in your discretion to give or not to give. You don't have to give it to everyone, but you have to listen to our demands. I made a promise in favor of your attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0367par0563	Thank you. It's Mr. Ozturk, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0368par0566	Mr. President, I've taken your word for it. It's that you don't deceive the illegalities and irregularities that have been committed so far, but you continue without overstepping it. Actually, I think you're doing it right. On the contrary, if you stop enjoying yourself here, if you eliminate the law, you create an exception! Mr. President, we are now talking about the 63rd Amendment. Those who want to do so here take the word of the most two men in favor and against, provided they do not last more than ten minutes. Once again, you have violated the Civil Code. May it be lawful for you and lawful for you. So I think your attitude is actually in favor of me, and I think it's getting a little busy talking about it. Yeah, it says here it's open, so it's the Charter. Do you not see this Charter? He says "Lehte" and "against you." First you'll give me what's in favor, but now you're up, you've made a promise to the man who's against you. Then, Mr. President, what day is it today? 6. Has this AKP group proposal just been voted here? It's a vote. From what point does this AKP group proposal produce legal consequences? She'll give birth from the moment she's accepted. So, what does it say here? The 338 law will be discussed on Wednesday (November 7, 2012). If you discuss this now, then you can't discuss it according to Article 91, because there is no General Assembly decision in the Council of Counsellors, which was adopted before this, to consider it as a fundamental law according to Article 91. I mean, on the one hand you take it, you take some like that, you give it to the AKP group to cook and eat as it suits you. That's not gonna happen. You can either apply today's AKP group proposal or apply the one before it, then you can't discuss it as the basic law under Article 91. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, you have to decide this once, if this AKP group proposal confirms the legal results from now on, if it's going to be an interview based on 91, then you have to start it tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0369par0571	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0368par0572	Today is the 6th, not the 7th. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0369par0575	Yes, Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0370par0577	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I've been watching these discussions with great awe and sadness.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0371par0578	We're watching you, too.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0372par0579	You'll be more upset if you go on like this.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0370par0580	I mean, you want a friend of ours to come out and tell you that Bill 338 will not be able to see you today.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0371par0581	It's very flattering to say no to the law of dividing the country. Fifty percent of the MPs are already waiting for this.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0372par0582	We're doing it with dignity.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0373par0583	Does it say November 7th, November 7th... Do you make a decision based on Article 91?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0374par0584	I'll tell you. ...I'm watching with genuinely incredible surprise and sadness.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0373par0586	Is there a verdict based on Article 91?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0374par0587	Look, our group proposal is now approved and in effect.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0373par0588	If that's when it came into effect...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0374par0589	I'll tell you. Hold on a second. I listened to you, and you listen to me, please. The previous group was scheduled to work today at 24 p.m. on our proposal. Today's group proposed that we put Bill 338 in the 4th place. He's now in the fourth place. Today it's 24. What rules will we work to the end of the day? We'll work in order, we'll work in general. Is it true? We'll work according to the general provisions. As a matter of fact, Mr. President did, he started reading from the first row...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0591	But you're not working!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0376par0592	Now, Canikli, if you're going to work according to the previous decision, then you can't do 91.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0374par0593	...in the first three, since there is no government and no commission...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0594	Mr. Canikli, if there's no government...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0374par0595	There's a Bill 338, and we've started talking to him. Simple as that, plain as that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0596	You're not working!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0374par0597	I'm amazed. Please don't. I mean, that doesn't suit the court's metaphor, it doesn't suit its seriousness, that's not true.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0598	It starts from seven, starting from seven.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0377par0599	The commission is sitting there, the government is there!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0600	If your ministers aren't working, what's the Clave's fault?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0378par0601	So you can criticize, you can do legal obstruction, but it has to be by the rules, and it really needs to be done, sincerely and seriously.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0602	You brought the law to me at three o'clock in the middle of the night. Why are you leaving me unfinished?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0378par0603	But the painting that's come out so far shows that it's come to a really sad point.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0604	No, no, it's worse, it's worse!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0378par0605	I beg you, please don't, this House is all of us, this House is all of us, all of us.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0607	The country is all ours. Pull it, pull it, pull it!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0379par0608	This country belongs to all of us. Pull the bill that will divide this country.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0609	Mr. President, you've just handed out your lines against and against, and then against, and then against. It's the way you...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0610	Mr. Vural, it is Mr. Tanal's request... that I give him the one in favor first, Mr. Tanal himself asked him to open the discussion. I said to Mr. Tanal, I asked for the counter, give it to him in favor. Then he stepped on the stand. There's nothing going on with me.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0381par0611	Is Parliament run according to its request?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0612	Mr. President, something like that may have happened, but then shouldn't you have continued to say, "against-against-against-against-against-against-against-against-against-against-against-against"?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0613	Right.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0614	I mean, you don't have the right to appreciate it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0615	But first... secondly, of course, I have to keep in line. He's got to be in favor, in favor, in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0616	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0382par0617	First it's in favor, then it's against.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0618	Yeah. I went against it, I went against it, and then I went with the one in favor, of course.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0619	But you gave it to him, to him, to him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0620	No, I went on with the third row. If you want to argue for him, Mr. Vural, go ahead. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0622	No, sir, I don't know what it's supposed to be like...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0623	But please, there has to be another way, Mr. Vural. Whatever you have to say, when the law is discussed, you say it on the basis, on the matter.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0624	Mr. President, I'm asking you a question. Is your application correct or not? Is it appropriate for the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0625	No, there's nothing in my app for myself. Mr. Tanal opened the discussion and said, "I want to talk about your passion."
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0626	Yes, but they said they'd give it to the Lehte first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0627	That's why I wanted to make a promise first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0383par0628	He warned you!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0629	Sir, he warned you, he said to give it to the prophet.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0630	I did, I gave it to the one in favor, but he's here, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0631	Mr. President, if you'd like to state that this is not the right way to conduct this matter, that's enough for me.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0632	Of course it's not true.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0633	It's not true!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0634	It's not true, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0635	That means you have to direct it right!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0636	We spoke to Mr. Tanal. You must have heard what we were talking about.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0637	It's not true!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0638	Mr. Vural, don't worry, we'll ask, we'll find out, we'll find out the truth. I say we learn to ask questions.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0639	No, you know, we're sure you know...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0640	We'll find out, so it's not a thing, it's good to learn. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0642	Yeah. No, about that, about the application, maybe you'll decide, about the procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0643	Which one is it about?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0644	No, there's been a discussion of the procedure...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0645	There's no change in my attitude, so I'm making a decision.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0646	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0647	There's no change in my attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0648	Well... Mr. President, a commission report is subject to the procedure and the will of the members of lawmakers there will be relieved, won't it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0380par0650	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0651	A commission report is not valid, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be. Look, he says there's a subcommittee report. Was this Commission report a six-pointer?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0384par0653	6+2...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0654	Two temporary... now it says: "The article 3 of the Subcommittee's report is adopted by adding the clause of Article 3." The first joke of Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of etc., etc., etc. There's no such thing. Did such a vote take place, the valued MPs on the commission?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0384par0656	There was no such vote.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0385par0657	That's no way to admit it!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0375par0658	No. There was no such vote.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0386par0659	I'm a Commissioner, there's no such vote. OCTAY VURAL (Izmir)- therefore such a vote has not been taken, has been accepted. There is no way to discuss a report written in the form of a decree.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0387par0661	There's a signature on the bottom, a signature! There's a signature on the report, a signature!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0388par0662	Mr. President, look, if you look at the report, it's really...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0386par0663	There was no such vote.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0388par0664	And in the end, he says...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0386par0665	For the sake of these substances, our consent and vote were not received.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0389par0666	It's not in the records either!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0388par0667	Look, Mr. President, it's been agreed upon. The President of the Commission has been replaced by the majority will. Therefore, this report is not possible to discuss.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0390par0668	I'll make a promise to the commission. Finish your promises.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0388par0669	No, not to mention, Mr. President. Look, I beg you, I'll show you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0390par0670	I understand, but I will promise the Commission, Mr. Vural. You guys talked.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0391par0671	Is the Commission in charge of the House?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0392par0672	Is this Sunday?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0393par0673	You've turned it into a market, Mr. Ünal, you've turned it into a market. You'll live with it. You've turned it into a market.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0394par0674	Mr. President, the Commission has its agenda. It's been approved by the Commission, and under it are the signatures of the members of the Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0395par0675	Were you on the Commission, Mr. Canicli?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0394par0676	I've arrived.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0395par0677	You're the vice president of the group, and everything... We were there, you weren't.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit04spe0396par0679	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger. Closing Time 10:34 p.m.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0396par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Continue]] We will continue the talks of Bill 338. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0397par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0396par0010	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0397par0013	Mr. President, this report is made of will through the subcommittee text. Hence, the fact that the will made up of subtext was later adopted as separate substances is directly the hilafafa of talks in the Commission. That kind of acceptance is out of the question, as a matter of fact. The Commission has stated as if the will of the commission has been formed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0396par0014	You mean the materials or the jokes?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0397par0015	No, sir. It says here, look, the transfer of the subcommittee text is accepted. Isn't that correct? The second article, the same as the second article, says, is the same thing as the second article, after that -- the fourth article, as the fourth article, under redact authority. The second one is considered the fifth article. There's no such thing. There's no way he could've been interviewed and...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0396par0017	Let's make a promise to the Commissioner and hear it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0397par0018	Sir, it's okay. Mr. President, I'd also like to say that these are commission reports. See what the report says: my dear friends, negotiations on the articles of the subcommittee report have been completed. Now, with the subcommittee reports and additional lists of the text, I submit it all to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The subcommittee report is being voted on. He's the one who voted. Subcommittee report 6 articles, 7 points, 6+2. So, Mr. President, the report needs to be corrected. In that way, I mean, it's not possible. I don't know if it's possible for you to return this to the Commission as president according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0398par0021	Mr. President, the Commission is in charge of its agenda.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0397par0022	Is the king the ruler of your agenda?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0398par0023	The commissioners have discussed it often enough and attached it to the report and sent it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0397par0024	He's on the agenda. No way, Mr. President. No way.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0399par0025	The General Assembly has a will. The Commission will put up a mortgage on the General Assembly's will!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0398par0026	Here, as the General Assembly, we will discuss this report, accept or reject it. We can't have another option, because under it, the commissioners have valid signatures. A signature is a will. The commissioners have expressed their will in this report by signing. Besides...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0400par0027	Mr. Canikli, if you'd like to sit down, get into the system. You too, Mr. Tarhan, because you can't hear your voice.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0401par0028	Mr. President, there was no Commission report in a written environment of opposition.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0398par0029	Mr. President, let's have a formal discussion about this.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0400par0030	Yeah, I'm starting a procedural debate.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0402par0031	It's not about the procedure, it's against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0398par0032	There is no violation of the Civil Code. The General Assembly has no right to send back a report without meeting, without meeting, upon demand, Mr. President. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0403par0033	It's not about the procedure, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0404par0034	Mr. Canikli, give me your opinion, sir, we'll open the system from your position.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0405par0035	Mr. President, will you promise?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0404par0036	Okay, Mr. Tarhan, get into the system.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0406par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Commission has completed its work, completed its report, and submitted it to the General Assembly under the signature of a member of the Commission to ensure that the report is valid. This is your rights commission. Together, it's all members of the Commission with their signatures on it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0407par0040	No, sir, the Commission can't send a report as requested. If the Commission tells us about the Galatasaray game, will we accept the report?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0406par0041	The General Assembly may agree or reject this report by discussing it. There's absolutely no other way to suggest than an interview.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0408par0042	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0406par0043	Excuse me, Mr. President. So any friend of ours, sir, is not in accordance with this report, let's send it to the Commission... Mr. President, could such a will be done, could the commission's will be eliminated in such a manner? That's when the real extortion comes out. The commission's will is very clear.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0409par0045	There's no such commission will.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0406par0046	Besides, that's it, it's under there, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0409par0047	Mr. President, the Commission's will is in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0410par0048	Mr. Vural, let's not talk mutually. Let Mr. Canikli speak, and I will make a promise to Mr. Tarhan, and then to the President of the Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0406par0049	How does the commission's will come about? The commission's will is made up of the commissioner's signature.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0410par0050	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Mr. Tarhan, let's have your opinion.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0411par0053	Mr. President, now, we're looking at the law technique here is completely excluded from the Commission. After the commission's text was voted, the Commission's will was based instead of the MPs'. Look, Mr. President, look at the transcripts on the jokes, the proposals on the jokes have been voted out, but the joke has not been voted out in accordance with the accepted motion. Now, this Commission text can't be discussed as it is. I mean, if we get into this argument, we can't really get out, it's gonna take too long, it's gonna take too long. So let's face it, there's clearly a misappropriation and irregularity in the report. If necessary, bring in the transcripts and assess them. This text cannot be discussed as it is.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0410par0055	Well, thank you. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0412par0058	Mr. President, the bill, which the Interior Commission meets as the main Commission (1/690) in the number of rows, was first discussed in the talks held at the Interior Commission, in this meeting, the opinions on the matter are specified for all of the matter, and then the motion on the matter has been made through every joke, and the motion has been passed along with the amendment proposals adopted after the matter has been completed. As noted in our report, the bill has been subject to reduction under the mandate given to our Commission President in accordance with the procedure and the basis for drafting laws, the establishment of law-making techniques, the concept and language union, in the form of jokes, in accordance with the way the matter is discussed in the General Assembly as separate substances.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0413par0060	What kind of editing is this?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0412par0061	Yes, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0413par0062	It's a seven-point and 40-point reduction!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0412par0063	If our commission hadn't carried out this procedure, the presidency would have been able to process the jokes separately in negotiations at the General Assembly. Therefore, I submit to you, sir, that there is no irregularity in the talks, that the Commission's report and will are specified.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0414par0064	Mr. President, I'm a member of the Commission, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0415par0065	Mr. President, this should be discussed in the commission. Look, Mr. President, it says here in the October 21, 2012 report that negotiations on the articles of the subcommittee report have been completed. The articles of the subcommittee report are 6+2!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0416par0066	Yes, Mr. Vural, in accordance with the procedure and the basis for the preparation of law enforcement -- I submit to your votes on the matter of the Commission's decision to be given to our presidency in accordance with the procedure of meeting materials in accordance with the rules of law-making technique, the establishment of law and language unity, and in accordance with the procedure of meeting materials in the General Assembly: those who do not accept it, the ones who do not accept it, the ones who don't, the ones who don't, the ones who don't, the ones who don't.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0415par0067	Reduction authority was not made as a vote for the Commission text, but it was approved directly along with the reduction. The will is declared. The report... it's not possible.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0417par0068	It's just a matter of order, Mr. President. Reduction authority is clearly written.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0418par0069	We call the subcommittee report and text, sir. Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0419par0072	Sir, we're clear. I'll give you my opinion. Yes, lawmakers, I would like to make a brief statement on my objection to the non-responsibility of the Commission's report: The Council of Ministers has submitted the report to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 08/10/2012 with its main number-one Metropolitan Municipality Law (1/690) and some Law and Law Act on Making Changes in Decisions under the Code, which has been primarily aired by the Interior Commission, and the report has been submitted to the Ministry of Interior on 31/10/2012. The Commissioner has just informed us of the timing of the talks held at the Commission. The Parliamentary Presidency can occasionally be presented with legislation and proposals that have changed more than one clause within the same framework. It is possible that the commissions have adopted different procedures in the discussion of these substances so far. However, the draft and proposals, in the General Assembly talks, each joke that changes a different substance within a framework clause is rated separately as a separate clause and in separate opinions. The commission text also appears to have edited each joke in a framework clause changing different substances as a separate clause...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0420par0076	Unscheduled, then! Look, look, it hasn't been seen.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0421par0077	No, in the General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0419par0078	It's... it's been arranged.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0422par0079	It wasn't discussed on the commission.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0423par0080	He hasn't been seen. You admitted that you didn't see him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0419par0081	The Civil Code of the Commission Report...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0423par0082	Mr. President, your opinion has proven uninterviewed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0424par0083	He's talking to the General Assembly, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0419par0084	Sir, wait for the result.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0424par0085	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0419par0086	The Commission's report is considered to have been drafted according to Article 42 of the Civil Code, signed and submitted to Parliamentary Presidency.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0425par0087	No, sir, it's not possible, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0424par0089	No way, come on! What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0419par0090	Sir, it's not possible that he came to us. I mean, he's come this far, Mr. Vural!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0426par0091	You've got a record!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0424par0092	This is the report from the commission. The commission sent the report. The commission report is valid. The will of the commission is there.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0427par0093	Look, the subcommittee is being voted on here. There's no vote here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0428par0094	Well, then, Mr. President, let's be clear, but please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0427par0095	No, there's no opening, there's a vote. In the transcripts...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0428par0096	Just to clarify, sir, what's the big deal?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0427par0097	It's not about clarity. Chairman of the Commission...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0428par0098	I'll let you know what we have to do.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0427par0099	You will return it, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0428par0100	We don't have the authority to return it, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0427par0101	Sir, whatever. About that...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0428par0102	But we don't have the authority to return it, so I'll explain it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0427par0103	Mr. President, what's it gonna be?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0428par0104	You won't let me explain.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0427par0105	Yeah, how do you explain that? Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0428par0106	I understand, but you were supposed to do it on the Commission, when you were negotiating with the Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0429par0107	We saw each other, that's what it was for, or there were six items.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0430par0108	We saw the report in the hall.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0431par0109	We saw the report here. This is where the report came in, before the commission came in...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0432par0110	But how do we return the report to the Commission? Show us your way, how do we return it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0433par0111	Mr. President, the Commission report is present, signed and valid. Mr. President, can this happen? Force it, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0431par0112	Ask for permission to meet with the commissioner, the groups, the friends...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0432par0113	I'll finish what I said, after that.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0434par0114	We didn't see that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0432par0115	I understand, but we can't act as we please, except by the Charter.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0435par0116	How could you not?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0436par0117	Mr. President, look, the subcommittee report is being voted on here. Here, in the report...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0432par0118	I read the transcripts here, so...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0436par0119	I beg you here, subcommittee...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0432par0120	I understand, Mr. Vural, but there's no way we can return it, so we don't have that kind of authority.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0436par0121	Mr. President, I don't know, it should be in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0437par0122	Can an MP override the commission's will, Mr. President? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0432par0123	Sir, let my words be fulfilled, and we will not rest after that. The Commission's report was published to lawmakers and entered into the agenda of the General Assembly. Our presidency is not authorized to adopt a bill or a proposal that is on the agenda. Therefore, continuing negotiations with the Commission report does not violate the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0438par0126	No, no, no, no... no!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0432par0127	What are we gonna do? How can I do something that isn't in the Civil Code, Mr. Vural? How could I? What am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0438par0128	What kind of law is that?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0439par0129	Force or force?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0440par0130	You'll have to return it to the commission, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0439par0131	No way. Is this going to be rough, violent?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0440par0132	What's that got to do with brute force? You will bring it in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0133	By God, Mr. Vural, what should we do? How am I supposed to send something I don't have the authority to?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0442par0134	Mr. President, you don't sit down, please don't sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0135	Why shouldn't I sit down? Who's gonna sit down?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0442par0136	Don't sit down, for God's sake...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0137	No, this needs to be discussed.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0443par0138	Mr. President, we're not seeing each other, we're not signing...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0442par0139	How are you going to discuss a report that the commission hasn't signed?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0140	Well, then, I'll start a procedural debate, and the Commission...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0442par0141	It's not about the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0142	Why? The commission claims violation of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0442par0143	Mr. President, this is in the Commission report...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0144	Mr. Vural, then what's the solution? We can't return it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0442par0145	Mr. President, take the initiative as president, have the commissioner sit down with the MPs from each group, make an assessment of the matter. We have such a democratic request.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0146	How can I do something that hasn't been done yet, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0442par0147	I mean, what's the president gonna do if he doesn't get it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0148	No, there's nothing that can't be provided, something that isn't in order. I mean, there's nothing wrong with the Charter.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0442par0149	Call the MPs, call the members of the group.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0150	No, we don't have that authority.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0444par0151	Why didn't you invite him in? Are you taking a break, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0445par0152	Mr. President, you're a lawyer, you should know, they're not authorized!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0153	He's got no applications so far, the report's not my problem, it's not the President's business, it's the report.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0445par0155	Mr. President, the will of the House is being forced to be eliminated!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0446par0156	What's he gonna do? I'm calling it a fake report. Is that the way the law decides?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit05spe0441par0157	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0441par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 338. Mr. Vural, I'm reading from the report: Now, my dear friends, I would like to make a small thank-you and evaluation after the vote. Please excuse him, don't leave yet. My dear friends, negotiations on the subcommittee report have been completed. Now, with the additional lists of the subcommittee report and text, I submit it all to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0447par0007	Well, now, show me if this will is here, which page of the report is it on?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0441par0008	Sir, it's in the transcripts. Here you go, Mr...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0447par0010	The lower commission report has been voted, accepted. Where is it? That's right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0448par0011	But the report itself, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0447par0012	If so, in the Commission text...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0448par0013	This is where the accepted section is found.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0449par0014	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0450par0017	Mr. President, as stated on page 150 of the report, we explain the regulations under the mandate of the Commission's powers of reduction to the Commission in order to regulate the issues in the draft text in accordance with the context of the discussion of the articles in the General Assembly, in accordance with the method of law-making technique.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0451par0018	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0450par0019	Of course, this arrangement is not an arrangement at the time. You gave us the authority to edit...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0451par0020	No, no. Sir, look...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0450par0021	So we arranged it and brought it in. Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0451par0023	Mr. President, look, in the report...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0452par0024	Thank you. I'll ask if the Commission and the government are here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0451par0026	Mr. President, you've read from the report that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted by the majority of votes. Is there or is there not a will in the report that this Commission text is considered a subcommittee text? If it's not there, the report isn't complied. No, Mr. President, no, it's not in the report. Look at page 152.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0453par0028	Mr. President, may I have my word?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0454par0029	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0453par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. You've just read what's been accepted in this report, Mr. President, which means the adoption of the subcommittee report along with the amendment proposals is voted and accepted, and the sentence is compiled into this report as a whole. What you see in this report is clearly the part of the subcommittee report that has been discussed and amended within the framework of the motions. So, Mr. President, for God's sake, I mean, just for the sake of time, for us to fill the twelve, for that purpose...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0455par0033	If you'd like, come, bring him to us by morning by the Council of Counsellor's decision, and we'll sign it. Come on...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0456par0034	Okay, let's bring it in, let's sign it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0453par0035	It was very clearly in the report, the will was established, the members of the Commission signed their signatures and made their wills known, the Commission report came to pass. At this stage, the General Assembly's... Mr. President, the subcommittee report has been completed, agreed, amended here. It is the content of the subcommittee report, accepted, tasted, and accepted. At this stage, we, the General Assembly, only discuss, assess, argue, accept or reject the issues in this report. Other than that, there is no other judgment, and it is not in accordance with the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0455par0036	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0457par0037	Yes, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0455par0038	You've just read here, the subcommittee text has been accepted along with the attachments. Ben, I just want to know if there's a Commission's will that's been approved along with the subcommittee's attachments, if there's been a vote here...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0457par0039	Mr. Vural, thank you. Once again, the last sentence of my speech, the last paragraph: The Commission report was published by the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and was distributed to lawmakers and entered into the agenda of the General Assembly. Our presidency is not authorized to adopt a bill or a proposal that is on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0455par0041	Mr. President, now...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0457par0042	Therefore, there will be no violation of the Civil Code in continuing negotiations with the Commission report.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0455par0043	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0457par0044	Please, Mr. Vural, but what are we supposed to do? I don't have the authority to send it, if I had the authority.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0458par0045	Mr. President, it's not agreed that we didn't vote.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0457par0051	The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 338 rows.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0459par0053	Not like that! You can't just push it like that! You can't just do it without listening to us!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0457par0054	Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0459par0055	Mr. President, the Commissioners are here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0460par0056	Mr. President, how do you show that something unacceptable has been accepted? There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0459par0057	The commissioners are here. Look, the members of the Commission are here, so listen up. Mr. President, the Commissioners are here asking questions.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0059	Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the section will be voted separately.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0459par0061	Look, you're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0462par0062	It's not just reading, it's the will of the MPs...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0063	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0462par0065	That's not true! That's not true!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0066	Mr. Commander, take the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0462par0067	Mr. President, I want a word on the procedure, and I want a word against you. I want your word on your attitude, Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0068	There's a Civil Code here. Please, I mean, act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0462par0069	No, sir, the procedure is discussed first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0071	Mr. Commander, Mr. Commander, please come to the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0463par0072	Is that any way to put yourself on the stand? Make sure you keep the peace.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0073	No, dear... but there's no such thing as a promise, Mr. Commander, please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0464par0074	I want your word on your attitude, your word against mine.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0075	Okay, let's put it against him, but after Mr. Commander gives the speech...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0464par0076	I want your word against yours.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0077	Sir, I promised Mr. Commander. Mr. Commander, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0464par0079	I want your word on your attitude, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0080	Please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0464par0081	I want your word on your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0082	Well, I promised Mr. Commander Vural, so here...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0464par0083	I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0084	Please, I mean...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0464par0085	No, sir, the procedure is discussed first.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0465par0086	I want a word against you, against...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0087	There's a Civil Code here, we'll act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0464par0088	There's no such thing! Mr. President, that's not true!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0090	Mr. Commander, please come in.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0464par0091	Mr. President, there is no such thing!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0092	Mr. Commander, please come in.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0466par0093	No... no...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0094	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0466par0095	There's no such thing, you can't pass.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0096	What are you going to do with it?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0467par0097	Mr. President, there is no such thing! We want a word about the procedure, I want a word about your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0466par0098	Mr. President, apply the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0099	What do you mean, Mr. Günal? So what do you want to do? I'm following the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0468par0101	President, you don't know, you don't know the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0466par0102	There is no authority given according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0103	Is that okay?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0469par0104	Mr. President, I'd like a word about your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0466par0105	You'll have to send it to the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0106	If I had the authority to send it, I would. Please... Mr. Commander, please... Sir, we've been listening for two hours.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0470par0110	Mr. President, the subcommittee report has not been voted.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0111	Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0471par0112	Mr. President, this is wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0113	But if I had the authority, I would.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0472par0114	Take a break, I'll see you tomorrow, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0115	Mr. Günal, this is not the right way.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0473par0116	Then don't promise, let's not talk.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0117	But I promised...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0474par0118	Mr. President, keep the peace so we can talk.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0119	Mr. Commander, please. [[Noises]] Please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0475par0122	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0123	I'm not making the scene. Please... this way in the morning, for two hours...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0476par0124	Mr. President, how do you begin to discuss the report immediately?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0126	If it's not over, it's not over.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0477par0127	It's the first time the AK PARTY people have listened to me, but...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0128	But if you'll excuse me, Mr. Commander. That's not the way it is, guys.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0478par0130	Mr. President, we're not done arguing about the procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0479par0131	Once in a while, act according to procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0461par0132	Mr. Commander, why aren't you talking? Please...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0478par0133	Mr. President, not with what's happened. I wanted your word on your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0480par0134	No fascist rule!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0481par0135	Is it okay to invade the bench like this?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0478par0136	Mr. President, Mr. President... Mr. President, I'd like a word about your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0482par0138	Mr. President, I want a word against you.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0483par0139	Congressmans, the speaker has come to the stand, please, let's clear the way for the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0484par0140	Mr. President, what do you call a speaker when we're still demanding?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0482par0141	Mr. President, I want a word against your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0485par0142	Mr. President, I'd like a word on your attitude, and I'd like a word on your attitude based on 63.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0486par0143	I'd like to see your opinions and opinions in order to...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0487par0144	That's not gonna happen! No!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0486par0145	Let's put it in a way that doesn't cast a shadow on the presence of the people.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0487par0146	No! No! Well, get us out of here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0488par0147	Mr. President, I'd like a word about your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0486par0148	Let's continue here until twelve o'clock, then.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0488par0149	I want your word on your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0489par0150	Ask for the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0488par0151	Bring in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0489par0152	You'll decide after we've examined it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0490par0153	Mr. President, take care of us.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0491par0154	Take a break. Take a break. Go today, come tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0492par0155	Mr. President, you can't secure the bench, I'm sitting in my seat, call me when you have it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0493par0156	Why aren't you listening to us? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0492par0157	Let me talk to him.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0493par0158	Don't disrespect our group, you'll listen to us. There is no such thing, there is no such thing!
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0494par0159	Respect the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0495par0160	And you have to respect us, respect the congressman.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0494par0161	I have respect for everyone, no... Since it was opened, I have promised this side to all: I have stretched out the borders of the Civil Law, and have given more.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0496par0163	What does "enough" mean? You haven't heard enough. Where's the national will?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0494par0164	As much as the Civil Charter does.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0496par0165	We use all the rights that the Civil Law gives to the opposition, and you cannot make the determination.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0494par0166	No, you use it, you don't object to...
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0497par0167	What kind of a thing is that? The commission text is seen as unvoted, unvoted.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0496par0168	What does "enough" mean? You're gonna limit my word?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0494par0169	No, it's not me, it's the Civil Code, and I've already called it Internal Charter.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0496par0170	That's not gonna happen. Get me the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0494par0171	But let's not take it personally, please, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0498par0172	Mr. President, Oktay Vural and I asked for the word, look, they wrote it there.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0496par0173	Bring in the transcripts, make up your mind.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0498par0174	We wanted a word against it, there was an argument about the procedure. After we talk about it, it's easy?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0499par0175	I asked for the transcripts, he'll be here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0500par0176	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0501par0177	Sir, you'll have to decide according to this after we've examined it.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0502par0178	The fact that you're talking here, you're ignoring us and you're talking there, and I'm sitting here... is that okay? Objection, you're still sitting here.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0501par0179	You'll review the records, you'll decide, maybe you'll change your mind.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit06spe0503par0180	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-06sit07spe0503par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Since our working time is complete, it is Wednesday (November 7th 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions with draft and proposals according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
