tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're going to do an electronic check-up now. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system in three minutes via their attendance personnel. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can answer these talks, the government's response time is 20 minutes. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora (HDP) MP who wants to speak about the problems of Mardin province. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book agreement to discuss our city of Mardin. I salute you all. Mardin is one of the poetic cities of the southeast, where time stands still with its architecture, ethnographics, archaeological, historical and visual values. Many civilizations have been established in the Mesopotamian region between the Rivers of Firat and Tigris throughout history. Mardin, one of the oldest cities of Upper Mesopotamia on top of a mountain, has mosques, shrines, churches, monasteries, and so on, in parallel with different religious beliefs. It is an important open-air museum that has been able to blend many structures of the Ottoman period, including Sumer, Akkad, Babylon, Mitannis, Assyria, Byzantine, Byzantine, Arabs, Seljuclu, Artuklu, Ottoman. Different beliefs and cultures are the wealth of this country. Mardin is a model for Turkey in that sense. As a model of a city that accepts people for who they are and develops relations on the basis of mutual reconciliation, I want to talk about some of the key cultural and religious centers of Mardin. Dara Ruins, one of the oldest cities in Mesopotamia, are now located on the Mardin-Nusaybin road. The ancient city of Dara, also known as the Ephes of Mesopotamia, bears traces of the underwater settlement of the city of Dara, the theatre, the water mill, the dam, the church, the marketplace, the warehouse, and the 40 metres deep, and the Assyrian civilization. The ancient city of Dara, which was captured by the Ottomans in the 15th century, is flooded with visitors every year in its glorious glory. The Medreesi of November, which has a history of seven hundred years, was two stories high on two terraces, built as a mosque and as a madrasa. The madrasa, with symbols of medicine and astronomy on its walls, is the center of both religious and science. The Deyrulzafan Monastery, built in the 5th century after Jesus Christ, is one of the most important historical values in Mardin with its magnificent architecture. For a long time, the Suryani have focused on their patriarchy. The Mor Gabriel Monastery, in Midyat district of Midyat, is a former monastery of the Suryani with its 1610-year history. One of the ancient churches of the Turabdin region, known as the home of the Saracens, was one of the richest libraries in the world, which contained thousands of books. The process of running for the UNESCO Cultural Heritage List, which has been a city for centuries in which the serbians, Arabs, Kurds, Turks, Mıhellemis, Yezidis and many other peoples live. We all have important tasks for Mardin to be on the list of world cultural heritage. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are an ancient and historical city. By taking power from its historical past and rich social fabric, I think a better Mardin, with all its dimensions, would be useful for the whole country, not only for those who live there. It is the duty of all those in the position of responsibility and service. Mardin, who is in a state of change and seeks his future, must set an example for all of us to develop peace culture and brotherhood during this turbulent period. In the name of the values that have come from the depths of history and have been entrusted to us, we must do so. Mardin is a monument to a civilization that brings color to the pluralistic fabric of Turkey, a monument to its spiritual cultural values from the past to the present. Mr. President, if any of you do not go to Mardin, visit Mardin and the surrounding area and bring the seeds of peace and brotherhood to Ankara on your return to Ankara and sprinkle it on Ankara. We're going through the days when we need peace and brotherhood the most. I repeat that there are no problems which cannot be solved by mutual reconciliation and dialogue, especially the Kurdish issue, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Reshat Beşak MP who wants to talk about the immigration problem of the provinces in the Inner Anatolia region. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0004par0032	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the immigration issues and measures that must be taken in the provinces of the Central Anatolian District. I salute the High Council. The inner Anatolian region is migrating. According to TÜİK data, As of the end of 2011, Tokat, Yozgat, Erzurum are among the most immigrating provinces. The cities that receive the most immigrants are Istanbul, Ankara, Bursa and Antalya. He is the champion of the provinces that migrate to the province of the slap. Its population is lower every year. And so are the cities around it. The number of members of the slap has fallen from 2 to 2 of the Sivas, 2 to the Yozgat, and 1 to Amasya. This fall will continue to increase even further in the coming years. For the past ten years, these provinces have always gone back to the AKP. When we look at the reasons for immigration, lawmakers, these provinces have a common feature. In these provinces, industry and trade have not developed. There's a lot of rural populations. It produces farmers, but it hurts. Every year he thinks about what I'm going to produce so I don't get hurt this year. In addition to the extinction of farming, the employment organizations are also disappearing. The Slap Cigarette Factory has been sold, and it's closed. The same is true of sugar factories. Like many sugar factories, the Turhal Sugar Factory was sold by the Privatisation Administration. It's called continuing production here, but I'm afraid this factory will come to the same conclusion. All over the country, such as the Province of Slapping, tobacco production is very low. The production of sugar beets will suffer the same fate, I'm afraid. Congressmans, our people are running from production and the land is empty. While the inner Anatolian region has been very important in its past in its animalism, this sector is now at an end. For the summer is almost cut, and the lamb, and the sheep, shall not be found. Today, the tradesman in the Inner Anatolia area is finished, and it has become a sinking state. The absence of the supermarket law has finished thousands of trades. According to the statement issued by the Union's President Mehmet Köyrak of the Tokat Esnaf Chambers, in 2011 2,214 tradesmen closed their business in Tokat. Industry and industry have not developed in the Central Anatolian provinces, such as the slap, and the state is not investing. The private sector is afraid to invest because of various factors. The current reason in our country today is probably due to this lack of production. But if cities like Tokat were given real support, there would be increased employment and people would migrate from big cities back here. Let's change the Incentive Law into Anatolian-based, enticing investment, spreading investments to cities that are more medium-scale than in major cities. Members of parliament, as a government, farmers, animal producers are not supported enough. The VAT and EV in fertilizer, diesel, and various drugs must be removed and taken with the farmer. The watering and modern farming methods must be popularized. Food must be developed in barn farming, industrial arms based on agriculture must be moved to rural areas. Most importantly, the value of the product must be given. Behold, then, how he shall cling to the land of the farmers of Tokat, and of the Kazova, and of Kelkit, and of Zile, and of the plains of Artova. There'll be a production explosion. Then the great star, and the Emirsaiit, and the graper, and the Niksar, and the wise, and the steel, and the graper, shall not go to great cities for a living, and shall feed in the land where they were born. And then the migration would be prevented. Members of parliament are also faced with the closure of municipalities under 2,000, in many provinces such as Tokat, in the coming period. Let's not shut down these municipalities. If these municipalities close, there will be more migrations. Let's create attractive environments about living there, staying there. Is there going to be tax exemptions, a discount on all sorts of things like electricity, natural gas, let's do that. People living in the village should be allowed to use a little bit of various opportunities differently from other places. That's when the population of the Inner Anatolian region will rise. The AKP ruling province, which has ruled our country for three periods, must intervene in these immigration provinces. There must be some methods that keep these people in rural areas. If we don't find it, I'm afraid that in the coming years, many of the people in these areas will leave at the point of livelihood and the future of the children of their families. In these thoughts, I believe the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give the inner Anatolian region the proper value, do the necessary research, and these people will remain in their own place.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0005par0041	Mr. Right, thank you very much. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ (Ghaziantep) who wants to talk about the impact of Syrian events on the Gaziantep province economy. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to inform the Grand Assembly of the impact of Syrian events on the Gaziantep economy. My respects to all of you. Turkey's Syrian policy has significantly affected the bordering province of Gaziantep with Syria, the economy of Gaziantep Province. In fact, not only has the Gaziantep economy been affected, but the economies of the provinces, including Mersin, Adana, Hatay, Osmaniye, Kilis, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Kahramanmarash, were also negatively affected. After the breakdown of relations with Syria, our exports have dropped significantly. Trade and economic relations with Syria have not only been negatively affected, but there have been major problems in transitioning to Middle Eastern countries outside Syria. These problems are still going on. Shipping costs are up. Courageous drivers are able to transport, but only in convoys can come and go. Transport via Iraq is also a risky situation for security reasons and other reasons. Before the crisis between the two countries, about 60,000 Syrian tourists arrive daily, while the number has dropped to 23,000 recently. The tourism industry and the tradesman have suffered major damage; the capacity in hotels has dropped to the lowest level, while a number of tradesmen have faced closing their shutters. Gaziantep and the Southeast Anatolian region are particularly attractive for cultural tourism. At least this region should have a master's master plan and be declared a Gaziantep tourist investment zone to cover its losses. Gaziantep is an important supply centre for both Syria and other Middle Eastern countries, so the point of Syrian relations has affected Gaziantep most. However, Gaziantep has previously been victimised by the government's wrong incentive policies, and Gaziantep has been deprived of the opportunity, even though all the surrounding provinces have benefited from the encouragement. The new provisions for the encouragement were not enough to compensate for the victims of Gaziantep (Ghaziantep). For example, the carpet industry was not used to encourage the carpet's raw material - polyps, acrylic and polyester thread. If this continues, we may soon be facing thread imports. In addition, if this continues, there may also be conflict among some sectors. This has reduced the competitiveness of the Gaziantep exporter. The Gaziantep exporter has become uncompetitive. Lawmakers are not running factories in Syria that belong to Turkish businessmen. This matter has been expressed to us by the concerns we've been discussing. A businessman built a pasta factory in Aleppo, but when the factory was finished, it didn't go into production. So, Mr. Lawmakers, what brings us here? Why did the government, which led to the policy of zero problems with our neighbors, bring Syrian relations to this point? How did the Prime Minister come to this point, and from whom did he get his inspiration, and from whom did our relations with Syria come to this point? That's what we have to ask. Congressmans, my time is up, and I salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0007par0056	Mr. Serindağ, thank you very much. Congressmans, we're moving on to the agenda...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0008par0058	There's so much off-the-top talk, there's no government to answer? It's not your turn today, why did you leave? You want to be a militant of the AKP?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0009par0060	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0010par0061	For a minute?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0009par0062	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0010par0063	Here you are, Mr. Sakik, from your place.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. President, thank you very much. There was an avalanche disaster last night in my district of Mush. Gülhanda Çifhar, who died in Küçca Mezraı, Bulanık district of Mush, I beg Allah's mercy. Two of their children are injured, and these wounded children are now in the Blurry State Hospital, but we're getting reports of life-threatening hazards. I'd like to ask the authorities to handle this matter. Thank you again for your promise.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0011par0069	Thank you. We offer our condolences to the family, and to those who have been injured, we pray for immediate healing. Congressmans, the presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose the establishment and establishment of a Parliamental Research Commission under Articles 104th, 104th and 105th of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on the following grounds, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by our citizens in the province of Mersin, and in search of their problems in agricultural production and marketing." Agriculture provides the income of an important part of our country's population. The income level of agricultural workers is as low in Mersin as it is in all Turkey. The province of Mersin faces an unscheduled and unhealthy issue of population growth caused by the domestic immigration movement. Unscheduled construction is spreading towards agricultural areas and causing the loss of fertile land due to the increasing demand for housing. Until recently, Turkey was shown among self-sufficient countries in terms of agricultural products. However, this has changed recently and has become a country that provides agricultural products from outside. This is a very thought - inspiring and important issue that must be taken care of. In our agricultural potential country, agriculture faces significant problems. But our country is built to overcome them. The realisation of problems will make it easier to reach solution proposals. Part of the agricultural problems are due to wrong practices, in response to the fact that climate, ground shapes, natural conditions, such as slopes, are related to the physical structure established by nature. Economic inadequacies are at the beginning of the fundamental facts of wrong practices. While it is known that the water needed for agriculture is sufficient in our country's delta and coastal plains, due to the lack of necessary investments, there is not enough and proper irrigation for products. As in many parts of our country, the problems of those who live on agriculture increase by the price of inputs such as electricity and water that are used in production near the Skysu River and in the basins. The average amount of electricity used in agricultural irrigation in countries such as the EU and the United States is 7 Cent per hour, while we have an electric fee of 17-18 Cent. In other countries, VAT is not available, while we have 18% VAT. There are 26,430 people in three towns and 22 villages in Silifke districts, near Göksu and in the basins; there are 14,571 people in one village, 22.9% of Mut districts and 33 villages, and 2,188 people in 2 towns and 8 villages. Most of the villages around here are forced to farm dry because there are no dams on the river, no dams and no water transport infrastructure. Instead of two or three products a year from watery agriculture, one or two products a year are available. The yields from dry agriculture vary depending on whether it rains or doesn't buy, causing our citizens in this region also to suffer during droughts. Water is very important to the living. For example, for 1 kg of rice, 2,000-2. 3,000 liters for 500 liters, 1 kg for sugar, 1,000 liters for 1 kg of wheat, 2,000-4 for the production of 1 liter of milk from the animal. A thousand liters of water is required. With the repair of the problems of the agricultural sector, which is so dependent on water, and the correcting of the current conditions, greater efficiency in agriculture will rise to a level that will compete with the world countries in quality and quantity. The dam building on the Skywater that feeds the Göksu Delta will also be arranged for the watering ponds to be built in this region and the agricultural workers in the region to produce their products at a competitive cost. Again, it should be considered that our villagers living in the mountain but corrupt forest areas of Mersin cannot benefit from forest areas called 2/B and complain that they are unaware of the sale of these areas. If necessary, these areas should be offered to the peasants by government or by incentive to become olive groves. On the other hand, it is important that agricultural products are soon available for consumption. To ensure that, transportation is also essential for taking relaxing measures. The transport infrastructure, which ensures that short-lived products grown in Mersin and its counties will be delivered to major consumption centres immediately, must also be completed. In order to determine the reasons and consequences of all these problems, we propose and propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures that must be taken. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] 5) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 18) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98th in order to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems of animalism, which are important to Turkish agriculture. And the TBMM subcommittee 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. Animalism, which is a major part of Turkish agriculture, is getting a little slower every day. The Prime Minister's Office of Turkey's Statistics (TÜİK) and statistical figures clearly reveal this decline in animalism. ANIMAL production statistics of TÜİK in 2008 have recently been published. According to this, the number of cattle was reduced by 1.58 per cent in 2008, with the total number of cattle reduced by 1.58 per cent compared to the previous year by the end of 2008, leading to 10 million 946,239 heads. The number of cattle among cattle was reduced by 1.60 per cent, leading to 10 million 859,942. In 2008, the number of small animals decreased by 6.87 per cent compared to the previous year. By the end of 2008, the number of sheep was 5.84 per cent less than the previous year, while 23 million 974, 591 heads, while 11.02 per cent of goats, 5 million 593,561 heads. He also received chicken livestock from the wrong animalism policies that have been implemented. The number of poultry also decreased by 8.96 per cent in 2008, compared to the previous year. As of the end of 2008, the number of chickens and ducks from the poultry was reduced by 9.31 per cent and 2.49 per cent, respectively, from the previous year. In 2008, the production of red meat and milk also declined from the previous year. In 2008, red meat production was reduced by 16.1 per cent in total, compared to 2007, to 482,458 tonnes. Over the course of this year, there have been 14.20 per cent of beef, 17.69 per cent of mutton, 43.02 per cent of goat meat, and 32.90 per cent reduction in buffalo meat. The production of milk in 2008 decreased by 0.70 per cent compared to the previous year, making it 12 million 243,040 tonnes. 91.93 per cent of this amount is made up of cow milk, 6.10 per cent of sheep milk, 1.70 per cent of goat milk, and 0.26 per cent of manda milk. Sub-industrial products are also regressed due to animalism. The production of skin, hair, and lint has also decreased in 2008. Based on animalism produced in 2008, a total of 15.52 per cent from the previous year was reduced to 8,758,597. Its production rate has decreased by 5.53 per cent, making it 44,166 tonnes. In 2008, hair production decreased by 11.75 per cent from the previous year, to 2,238 tonnes. In 2008, typhic production increased by 18.14 per cent to 194,000 tonnes. The wrong animal policies, stables, and meadows that have been implemented have left the animals without them today. Our country's vast fields of grass have been narrowed down and the farmer has been pushed into stable livestock. Farmers who could not graze their sheep, goats in green mera fields have become unable to maintain their stable livestock in the face of high bait prices. Prohibitions against forest cadastros and goat manufacturers have been as effective in the decline of animalism as high as bait prices. In our country, animalism used to be more of a mere animalism. That year, the manufacturer, who couldn't get enough of the land, made a living on his income from livestock. In the villages, livestock was like an agricultural insurance policy. But now, for reasons like 70-80 percent bait prices, high intakes, reductions of support and narrowing mera, livestock has come to an end in our villages. All these problems in livestock were soon reflected in both consumers and manufacturers. While the manufacturer could not replace the animal he sold, the consumer began to consume the meat at an expensive price. The consumer, who can't afford to eat red meat in the face of rising meat prices, has again turned to white meat, as always. Therefore, the Constitution is 98th in order to take the necessary precautions by investigating the problems with livestock in our country and the reasons for the decline in the number of animals. And the TBMM subcommittee 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, it would be appropriate to establish a Parliamentary Research Commission to benefit. [[Mersin]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Aydın]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Erzurum]] 6) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Kütahya]] [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 17) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 18) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Lug]] [[Kayseri]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems of our history and the preservation of our museums, our Constitution is 98 and 104 and 105. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. We live in a land that has been home to various civilizations for millennia. As the legacy of our rich history, many of our history and art works are expected to be exhibited in open spaces and museums or exhibited in warehouses. This rich heritage has always attracted the interest of ancient art dealers, many have been smuggled abroad, decorated museums of foreign states, collections of rich people. The recent discovery of missing artifacts in the Ankara Museum of Paintings and Sculpture found that we have had major problems maintaining history and art. In our museums and warehouses, the damage to our art and history, such as lack of storage conditions, lack of technical staff, faulty repair work, is another dimension of the issue. In the history and art of our national palaces, the situation is pathetic. In the warehouses, the things used by broken-down, broken-down, broken-down padishahs are devastated in lack of care and filth. The lack of awareness of our history and our culture is easily understood by the Minister of Culture and Tourism, the robbery of the museum under its responsibility, the attempted military coup attempt to escape its responsibility. It is imperative that a Research Commission of Turkey's Grand National Assembly be set up to seize the issue, protect our history and art works, and be transferred to future generations in full and unspoiled. For all these reasons, researching the problems of our history and art, protecting our museums, to determine the measures to be taken, our Constitution is 98 and 104 and 105. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 4) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 5) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 14) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Lug]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Peace and Democracy Party Group now has a proposal issued under Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and vote on. 02.02.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. 01. In November 2011, the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Turkish Parliament in order to investigate the active use of the railways and the current problems, was proposed to be read in the presentations of the 02.02.2012 Thursday jointly, in order to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Congressmans, I'm going to make a promise to two people on the proposal in favor and against. The first speaker, in favor of Mr. Demir Çelik, is Mr. Muk MP. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0012par0275	He's coming, sir... you can promise the other speaker if you want.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0011par0276	Sir, then, let's call the second speaker in favor. He'll talk when our friend gets here. İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0013par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my lawmakers, yesterday was an important day for Turkey and Istanbul, the last day of the step-by-step shutdown of Haydarpaşa Station. Starting today, Haydarpaşa Station will be completely removed from its function and heading towards its new function. Organised operation ended in November 2011, when the Istanbul Metropolitan Assembly decided to turn the station into a hotel by AKP members. Haydarpaşa and its environment, station, port, backfield, Kadıköy Square and surrounding area were included in the plan. The 817,000 square meters of the area will be divided into construction. Istanbul's last public area will become an intensive construction centre and will become a centre of hotel and trade. If it's not foreign material that's being introduced in the new charter, then there's a graphic that's being planned. Dear MPs, this Köseköy-Haydarpaşa station is closed under the name of the high-speed train, which is used by 20,000 citizens a day. Unfortunately, power against the most economic and secure railroad of our students, workers, civil servants and poor citizens who use this line is an alternative to the land road. The road transport has already been blocked and the E-5 and TEM will make the road even more impenetrable, and the passengers will disregard its security. All scientific research has shown -- and I want you to listen to this very specifically -- that railway transport is the most reliable transport at an earthquake. Istanbul's artery, which is at risk of a major earthquake, is being cut off, leaving only logistics transport on its way to land. For three days, we have seen what the road is, blocked by snow in Istanbul. The government, who repeatedly said it had held our historical values, would have given the roof repair of Haydarpaşa Garıt to a non-existent firm who had no experience in it, nearly destroyed a hundred and twenty-year-old historical building. The building's security and fire safety are not covered, so the saltwater and the wooden concrete parts of the historic building have been badly damaged. My dear friends will be temporarily shut down for about three years before Köseköy-Haydarpaşa, on account of changing rails and making a fast train, and then taken into the Marmaray system and shut down completely because it is not needed. Then another date will be sacrificed to Ranta. But what we suggest is that one of the lines stays open and the renovation is in order. The ruling objector has left the only line open between Köseköy and Derince for industrial transport, so he's only implementing our proposal for industry. Our citizens are being tricked into building a roller coaster. However, the Eskişehir-Köseköy line may be possible, but the Köseköy-Pedik line, without a project, will not be able to reach 2014. Since the line will be suitable for 100 km/hours speed, it will not be compatible with high speed train standards - 250 kmph. You know, Marmaray was built in Istanbul, which we're proud of, but it won't be functional for at least three years since the above-ground rails weren't laid out. Marmaray is stuck on the rails for a week, one week their electricity is out, one week it's in a tube that lies under the sea. Cars taken in advance from abroad have been lying in Edirne Customs for years. At the same time, the Vinegar Station will be given an important attack. Another important problem is the question of what employees are going to be. What about their parents, children's schools, social circles? What about the contracts and the layoffs? Urbanity is a matter of consciousness and habit. In order to be urban, a family must live in the same neighborhood for a hundred and fifty years. We, as in all things, have been unfunctioning to the structures that make up the city's memory. Look, the old Istanbul houses, the Army, the Nation and the Vatan streets, were opened and destroyed, and the people were cut off from the old. It's time for Kabataş Boys' High School and Galatasaray High School to build a hotel. The city's memory is being wiped out by practice. It is said that all of us, the inhabitants of Istanbul, and those who have stopped by, will be destroyed during this new construction of stations built along the line. One of the most important memories of the city is this station. Göztepe Station, Suadiye Station, Erenköy, Redlands stations are known by those who pass by. Here -- we want to do it again -- we're not against this healing and high-speed train; on the contrary, we believe that the high-speed train is already late. Around 20,000 workers and students who have become a suburb of Istanbul will be deprived of safe, cheap transportation. The big stations, which are the meeting ground, are the memory of that city, which is active in all the metropolitan areas of the world, Paris, Madrid, New York. At the time of the earthquake, the easiest and most reliable railroad is destroyed. Our citizens who travel to the most remote parts of Anatolia are being given the right to travel, which is cheap and reliable, and our citizens are forced to travel on their way to land, insecure and expensive. Like all over Istanbul, some have an appetite for loot and loot. You're trying to disrupt this area, just as you've corrupted all of Istanbul's skylines, and as Istanbulians, we won't allow it. It is a fact that you have made history of the historic Haydarpaşa Station. You burned Haydarpaşa Station first, then closed it, and sold it tomorrow. You've made it a habit to sell like fathers, but know that this nation will answer to you like fathers. My dear friend Mehmet Hilal Kaplan gave the Ministry of Transport a motion on this matter on December 30th, and I'm afraid a month and a half later, there's still not a single answer. Dear friends, this is not the first example of you, the lack of planning and programming of power, but also the Hunters' Bridge Crossroad, which was founded by the Prime Minister in 2005 with an important ceremony, has been shut down today, after spending 37 trillion liras of money, certainly called misdeed planning, out of the use of the city. Again, the Anatolian Citadel Sports Club is one of the most important sports centers in our region. Although he has an eight-year contract, the Anatolian Citadel Sports Club is razed to the ground. This is where I want to find out who benefits by destroying the most important sports center of the Anatolian Citadel and the Beykoz people. Again, something very important came up in a newspaper for our Minister of Transport, and the minister of TAV knows all about it. It is said that the privatisation of the IDO, one of the most important vehicles in Istanbul's transport, has suddenly been valued by some advantages, with some benefits. Is it right that the value of this IDO will endure 3 ▪? The most profitable parts of IDO have been sold? So the less profitable city lines haven't been dispossessed, only the profitable one, the large interstate ferryes of the IDO have been put on sale, privatized. We also want to be explained to you that this profit here is going to endure three hundred percent. I give you all my love and respect. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0014par0300	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Now the second speaker is against Mr. Recep, the MP of Isparta. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0015par0304	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the group proposal given by the BDP. I salute you all. Ataturk, who spoke to a newspaper in the 1920s, said: "All the centers of the city will be connected to the other one in just a little while. Despite all the shortages and impossibility, railway construction was maintained rapidly until the 1950s. However, the railways had been neglected since the 1950s, and its place in the transportation of iron nets has been gradually reduced. Turkey, which had 4,136km of railway networks before the Republic, had a new network of roads between 1923 and 1950. From 2003 to today, there have been 1,110km of railways and 1,630km of main lines are still under construction. The agenda of our Parliament today is about the geneorization of our Minister and after which there is a change of the Civil Code. That is why we do not agree with BDP's group proposal. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0016par0309	Thank you, Mr. Special. He is now a member of the Peace and Democracy Party Party, Mr. Demir Çelikte Muş MP. Mr. Steel, please. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0017par0313	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak in favor of the Peace and Democracy Party's research motion for more effective and efficient use of the railways. I salute your high council with respect and love. Dear lawmakers, as you all know, a country's economic, economic, social and cultural development as well as its economics, but at the same time, transportation from the standards of human life is an important factor, a factor, a factor. Especially in today's global world, where communication is becoming very complicated, the transfer of goods and services, as well as human beings, is a problem of its own. In this regard, the transport sector, which will affect the development of communities as well as the development of them, needs to be kept at a certain point of value and importance by us. In Turkey, especially during the Ottoman Empire, it is important to say that the value needed by the AKP, as well as the government of today and its ruling government and the AKP, which began in the 1856s and was established between the 130km railway line and Izmir-Aydn, has been on the railway road for more than a hundred and fifty years from that day. In today's Turkey, which is strategic and geopolitical position on all sides, above all, the shipping, railway, air and road transportation are also designed and activated by us in the new needs of the developing world. However, the unremarkable rail system or railways have operated with seven separate regional governments from 1923 to 1940, but 780,000 square kilometers is far from enough to meet the needs of 75 million people. We're not too close to the criteria of being reliable, economic, comfortable, and quality that we're putting on the railroad. Even if it's not in every corner of 780,000 kilometers, its important points have been provided with such a service that will transport both goods, products, and methane, as well as human navigation in comfort and security. This is a subject that needs to question, criticize, and come to the right conclusion that we are at an ideological and philosophical point where we are blessed by the state. Despite the fact that the government was privatised, the state was surrounded by autonomous structures, the fact that the railway had not been built for a hundred and fifty years, it must have been because of the value the government had given them in this sector, the governments, the authorities, the political structures, or understandings. Mr. President, as you all know, valuable lawmakers, we all know that until recently the average 10 deaths were caused by too much transportation on the roadside, and that the production of road transport services was not sufficient quality and quality, but for some reason, governments who encouraged private transport companies to promote the road, encouraging them to benefit from international projects, have not shown their interest in railways. In modern-day Turkey, the share of land roads in the transport of goods is 94 percent; the share of railways is 4%; the proportion of human transport and passenger transport is 96 percent at the point of land roads; and 2 percent on the railway road is 96%. Abesle's busy. This sector, which is supposed to be reliable, economic, comfortable, has not seen, unfortunately, the necessary attention, the sensitivity. However, as far as a country is concerned, the key criteria for the development of a society are the transportation of the railroad, the shipping of the sea, the fact that Turkey is the 16th economic power, and that we also have to deal with it, which is a problem that we have to deal with. Not to implement fast train projects and keep this project limited to Ankara-Izmir, Ankara-Istanbul, Ankara-Konya, we need to be in a mindset that surrounds the four sides of the country with railway lines all the way from Adana to Mersin to Erzurum. As of today, citizens are deprived of education, health care, and are deprived of public service, due to their private administrations in which 2,100 village roads are closed, which are in difficulties with the opening of village roads. People can't take their patients to the doctor. People suffer from failure to provide education for their children or to meet their basic demands in some way. At this point, railway transport stands at a point where we can meet our basic demands, our needs. Therefore, it should be transformed into opportunity for us as an opposition party to which the government should do what the government should do, both because of the cost of road transportation, not being reliable, but also because it lacks adequate quality. Since we are the 16th power at the economic point, we are among the 20 developed countries of the world. It must be our duty, of course, to turn this economic power into production, rather than to spend it on the imports of high technology, on arming, on the welfare and happiness of society, to bring it to a point that results in society's favor. In this regard, not five years, but ten years, 20 years, especially when power put a vision of 2023 ahead of it, such a project should not have been ignored. I would like to stress that the necessary sensitivity for the implementation of this project, which is remarkable, has to be done without fail, as well as some of the projects that have been launched at the point of construction. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers need to be read correctly by us as they progress in the vast and revolutionary point of communication and technology of today's world. We, as a parliament that has failed to free our people, our identities, and our identities, and the norms of a democratic country, as it is in all areas of life, as it is in all areas of life, it is inevitable to achieve success in this field, in a sense, in a sense that, above all, society is the basis of society, it is multiplying, it is the democratic state of society through the democratic organisation of society, and if we can evolve ourselves in a mind as much as there is in every aspect of life. And these achievements will lead to the greater growth of our people, our society, our identities, our cultures, our freedom. When we approach the problem with this perception, we may also be able to avoid the deaths that we call the tragic monster. We may have had the opportunity to move our people from place to place with more reliable and healthier means of transportation to society, but we also have the opportunity to transport its goods, its metas and its products. With these feelings, I salute you with respect and love, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0018par0328	Thank you, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0019par0329	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0018par0330	It's not over yet, sir. The fourth speaker, Mr. Ramadan Can, is a member of the Kırıkkale. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0020par0334	Mr. President, I have made a commitment against the BDP group proposal. I hereby salute your delegation. Since the agenda is the railroad, I'd like to brief you on the history of the railroad. The railways, as you know, have been heavily invested in the last period of Ottoman descent, have been laid out for 4,136 kilometers. Again, serious investments have been made between 1923 and 50 km in Turkey. Then he went into a pause period, which lasted about 50 years. From 1950 to 2000, we can say that almost no investment has been made, a total of 945 kilometers. By the time of the EC PARTY, the railways, which met serious investments between 2003 and 2011, were laid out on the main line of 1,110 kilometers, the train at 888 km, and the conventional line at 222 km. The total is now in Turkey, and as of the end of 2011, we have an 11.915km railway line with a conventional main line of 8,716km, 2.332km. 91 per cent of the main lines are single, 9 per cent double line; 26 per cent of the total lines are electric, 33 per cent signalled. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have also met serious investments in terms of participation in the State Railways during the AK PARTY administrations, and I would like to brief you on these. The production of the Hyundai Eurotem speed train sets and subway cars was established in Adapazari, EZBAN A.Ş. Izmir's domestic suburban transport was established in İzmir; VADEMSASŞ A.Ş. The production of fast railway shears was established in the province of Çanrı; the quick railway traverse production of Sivas concrete travers was launched in Sivas Province. On the other hand, serious investments have been planned. These were established in Erzincan, where the Ray Linkworks Factory was established, and the concrete travers factories were built in Pamukova, Afyon, Iconium, Poland, and the Karderon Iron Steel Factory began producing rails. Also in science, the Kırıkkale Machine Chemicals began their efforts to build a wheel factory in cooperation. Mr. President, I'd like to brief you on our 2023 vision of the railroad network. The Ankara-Konya High Fast Iron Road Project is now open to operation. The Ankara-İstanbul Speed Train Project has been launched into Ankara-Eskişehir, and works continue between Ankara and Istanbul. We will launch the Ankara-Sivas Speed Train Project in 2014, hopefully. The Sivas-Erzincan Speed Train Project will be launched in 2017. The Ankara-Izmir Speed Train Project is scheduled to open in 2017. The Scholar-Billy Speed Train Project will be launched in 2015. I'd also like to brief you on projects that were supposed to be done by 2023. Erzincan-Kars Speed Train Project 2019, Erzincan-Trabzon Speed Train Project 2023, Sivas-Cetinkaya-Malatinya-Elatizığ Fast Train Project 2023, Bursa-Bandir-Izmir Speed Train Project 2023, Konya-Manavgat-Antalya Speed Train Project 2023, Antalya-Manavgat-Alanya Speed Train Project 2023, Eskişehir-Antalian Fast Train Project 2023, Yerköy-Başeşer-Ezmir Speed Train Project 2023, Inc. The group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party has also led us to our actions. So this group proposal is a math to change the agenda. The agenda is clear, and we will meet, I hope, and we will make law. We expect support from opposition parties. We'll vote on the rejection of the group proposal. I salute the General Assembly with these feelings again.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0021par0349	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0022par0350	Congressmans, there is a request for a roll call before the sign and I will now meet this request. Once we've identified enough of the members' names to make the call, we'll run a check with electronics. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Tanhkulu, Mr. Firat, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Seşam, Mr. Eyiturk, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Light, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ekshi. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I'd like to ask the members who requested roll call not to enter the electronic device for roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Here you go. 02.02.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 02,02,2012 Thursday (now), since there is no consensus among the Political Party Groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly as required by Article 19 of the Interior. Yours truly. On Thursday (January 20, 2011) I propose that our parliamentary research motion to the General Assembly (now) be read at 02,02,2012 on Thursday (now) in order to ensure that the problems of subcontractors working in the public and that future problems may be avoided by the Constitution are not in accordance with our legislation." Congressmans, we will now make a promise to our two friends on behalf of the National Movement Group's proposal and against it. The first speaker is Mustafa Kalaycı, the Konya MP, who is about to be in favor. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0023par0378	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Unionisation rates and union workers in both the public and private parts of our country are becoming increasingly low. This supports a process in working life that goes from collective business law to individual business law and subcontractorship. Guaranteed employment formats are being destroyed during the AKP period while public staff employment is diminishing. According to the Labour and Social Security Minister, 426 thousand subcontractors work in public. From cleaning to security, from working machine operators to engineers, from office work to emergency rooms, from operating rooms to subcontractors. It's unacceptable for a subcontractor to be given the right jobs of human dignity, but to be overworked in the sense of profit by staying away from universal norms, but not to be compensated for it. Minister of Labour and Social Security ▪ There are 426 thousand employees in the public sector and 420,000 subcontractors in the private sector. Subcontractorship is like slavery. It's unacceptable, I say it as Minister. I must ask, who is the master of these slaves? Isn't it the AKP government that puts the concept of Tuccar politics on the agenda of Turkey? The AKP government has revered the medieval mentality, applied subcontractorship as the basis of its policy and has managed to provide political moisture. All workers employed by subcontractors are employed by AKP politicians. Otherwise, the firm's tender is being cancelled, and the firm is not being tendered. In this system of exploitation created by those who turned unemployment into an opportunity, subcontractors are forced to vote for AKP (AKP) with the threat of dismissal, making it a member of AKP's political rallies. One of our subcontractors says: "Speak to the general people, not to the rich. Some people take their heads off, work part-time, some people work 12 hours a day, some people spend 701 lira a month. To the people in charge of the state, let this injustice be put to rest, and the plague of all these people is very, very heavy. Dear lawmakers, you are surely witnessing that many subcontractors have also complained that they are being paid minimum wage in their bank account, but the contractors have been asked to pay them an extra $50, $100. Of course, in this unsupervised environment, it can all happen, it can happen. Therefore, even the minimum wage has to be paid well, subcontractors. The subcontractors are working as slaves for 12 hours a day, free of human working conditions, without employment guarantees, without a union, without a permit and without overtime. The subcontractors, so to speak, have been turned down, tied up, acting on command, unable to speak out in fear of being fired, fear that they will not sign a contract again at the end of each contract period, they do not receive notices or severance pay, nor do they receive regular wages. Dear lawmakers, the last example of this is that we live in Iconium. In recent days, the jobs of 220 people working as subcontractors were taken away from them, all on the streets on winter day. That's because the contractor changed, and the new contractor, who's been working for years, has put these workers out of their jobs for fear that they won't pay the severance pay, and replaced them with new subcontractors. These 220 subcontractors all support one house, care for their children, but unfortunately, the government, the Ministry of Labor, is watching them, not making any effort. The AKP government, which employs new subcontractors by turning unemployment into opportunity, does nothing but watch over their problems. The government must take care of the more subcontractors each day, improve the working conditions and wages. Subcontractors employed in the government's original and continuous services must be assigned to the staff. On the other hand, good lawmakers have been known to lose their severance due to in-and-out procedures, without the union rights of workers working for years in subcontractors. This practice clearly violates the Constitutional rule that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a social legal state. There are also various challenges in receiving such tenders. Companies entering the tender are breaking prices in order to offer the best bid to win the tender. As a result, when they win the tender, it either cuts the rights of the staff they employ, resorts to cheating methods against the law in some ways, and prevents them from fulfilling their obligations, or rather not. And finally, some companies have to quit because they're losing their contract. In this case, the country's economy is being damaged, as a result of the failure of services. The government, instead of decoding the woes of this subcontractor's employment, has determined that public officials do not recognise the right to elect staff to the company by interfering with the company in various practical ways. This practice is known to all public opinion, especially our MPs, and violates the principles of equality, neutrality and rights. So, as we say in our motive, we expect your support for the opening of a parliamentary investigation into this matter. Dear lawmakers, there is also a drama in our country called temporary and seasonal workmanship. Tens of thousands of workers are laid off during certain periods of the year, despite the fact that the state is doing its original and continuous work. Moreover, it is unclear whether a worker suspended will be called in the new era. It is extremely difficult for a temporary worker to cling to life without knowing when to lay off and when to start work, whether to start work or not. It is not possible for those who do not work as temporary workers to know the psychological pressure and distress experienced by such workers. There are examples of the unjust practices of the AKP. On the eve of the 2007 elections, about 220,000 temporary workers were assigned to the 4/4/2007 Law, dated 5620, on the eve of the 2007 elections. However, in 2006, at least six months, many temporary and seasonal workers were unable to cover it. For twenty or twenty-five years, the workers who have been waiting have not been able to benefit. Their only crime is that he didn't work for six months in 2006. For many years, seasonal workers, primarily tea and sugar factories, have not been recruited. Mr. Prime Minister, the situation of the remaining 20,000 temporary workers has upset us. Hopefully, we'll be able to get them on the staff. He's told us so, but so far, it's not fixed, it's still victimized. I look forward to your support of our motion again, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0024par0395	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The second speaker is Mr. Tülay Kaynarca, the Istanbul MP, against him. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0025par0399	My dear President, our most esteemed deputies, I have made a pledge against the National Movement Party's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation on this occasion. Dear lawmakers, the group's proposal includes investigating the problems of subcontractors working in public. Even though we do not agree with each of them, our esteemed congressman, who has just considered the matter, there are important topics. As a matter of fact, within this week, there are studies on new legal regulations expressed by our Minister of Labour and Social Security, our esteemed Minister Faruk Çelik. It's possible to evaluate it in two stages. One: new legal regulations in the process that will be legalized in the process aimed at using the legal, existing rights of subcontractors. What I'm trying to say is that in the future, serious legal arrangements will be made as soon as possible. However, today's parliamentary agenda is Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey's Civil Code amendments and genera talks. Therefore, I say that I have expressed my opinion against the proposal of the National Party for Action, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0026par0404	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Third speaker, in favour of Ankara MP Izzet Çetin. Here you go, Mr. Cetin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0027par0409	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge in favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal to investigate the problems of subcontractors working in public. I salute you all. Dear friends, it's possible to read how difficult it is to speak against such a suggestion because of our friend who just spoke for a few minutes. So there's probably no one in Turkey who doesn't know what a subcontractor system is. But if you ask who created the subcontractor system, how it was developed, it's the work of the AKP. The AKP is less proud of the rights they give to subcontractors. Because with this system, the system of slavery, the exploitation of labor, has brought the system back to life. Moreover, he carried it all the way to the Assembly and even separated the members of Parliament from members of Parliament, 4/C/B/L, staffed. Dear friends, again, our friend from the ruling party who was just spoken of will have new legal provisions, there will be further rights here, our Minister of Labor is working on it. I've just attended the meeting of Law 4688 at the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, and I've come from there. When you look at the essence of the Law on Public Servants' Unions No. 4688 and the Common Business Contract Law, it seems very clear how you've already developed the subcontractor system, how you're looking at work, how you're looking at the worker. The law contains more restitution than collective rights. You have brought the Union Law and the Common Contract, the Strike and the Lokavt Law bill to the agenda of the Assembly. I'm looking there, the system's the same, nothing's changed. We don't need to fool each other here. Dear friends, the AKP really has nothing to say about the subcontractor system. Officially, the Labour Minister said there were 410,000 subcontractors in the public community in November. Today, the number appears to be 430,000. In the private sector, the speaker of the National Movement Party has just given the number 420,000, but there's no way to limit that number to 420,000, 400,000, in a field where 45 percent of the economy is off the books in our country. Because "out of the law" means "out of the law." There's no way you can detect illegal work, or run it in numbers, which is for him to be investigated. So we made a promise to look into it for him. Indeed, the subcontractor system stands in front of us as an innocent approach, based on a number of reasons, such as lowering labor costs, improving competition, growing the economy, but, dear friends, don't let God take anyone's child into the hands of subcontractors, not subcontractors. Do you know what conditions they work under, that there is no safety in workplaces for profit, that there is no workplace work environment, that their wages are minimum wage, and that in most places, there is even less than half of the minimum wage in other parts of the register? There's no way that you, the AKP, can't know because you've made a bag of laws last year, and you've asked even staff workers from municipalities to go to the Ministry of National Education and to the Security General Directorate, and you've made it legal. On the one hand you sent them there, and on the other hand you called them the norm staff, narrowed down the working conditions, working areas of the municipalities, and then you said, "If you can't see service, do not employ permanent staffers if your services are failing, instead use the use of subcontractorial hands." This is a concrete example of your point of view. You're a second example: We're a social democratic party as the Republican People's Party, we're a hard-working party, we're a party for the removal of obstacles to the organisation of labor. So, when our Izmir Metropolitan Mayor came into office, there were 6,500 subcontractors working for contractors, the mayor looked at Article 128 of the Constitution, and said: "The government's primary and permanent work is seen by public employees, and the subcontractor system is contrary to the Constitution. As a social democratic mayor, I can't work against the Constitution. For him, he put 6,500 workers on staff under a two-year plan. He bought the subcontractor system in Izmir Metropolitan, and all those workers became unionists. In the past few months, you've had Izmir Metropolitan Municipality raided, you've had five unionists and city officials imprisoned, you've tried to judge our Mayor for a period of over four hundred years, and you've transferred him to the judiciary. What was his crime? Part of your crime, why did you remove the Tabheron system? I make the law for the laborers in slavery conditions, you don't listen to me. The Prime Minister also says in the group talk: "You have cities, you have promises, lift them up. You lift them up, you lock them up, you put them in jail, unionists, municipalists. Dear friends, since the AKP took over, it has not made any arrangements in favour of employees, in favour of labour for nine or ten years. The regulations are all aimed at labour exploitation, anti-union policies, anti-communist contract policies. In the previous law, forgive our friend, you're bringing an arrangement against the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, based on one union, in violation of the ILO, 98 and 151 contracts of public employees. So we're going to remove the subcontractor system in the future. There's nothing convincing about it. Everyone knows exactly what you're doing, what you're going to do. Dear friends, really, there is no way that these subcontractors can use the freedom to organize, that they can unionize, that they can benefit from collective contract rights. Again, even minimum wage is a maximum wage for workers who work in unregistered areas, as there is no social security. For him, there's a motion to investigate. So let's agree that public services, continuous services, are seen by the hands of public employees. Article 128 of the Constitution is very clear in this regard. On the other hand, it is shameful for a nurse, a doctor, a medical technician, to be employed as the chief physician's secretary at the hospital or as the secretary of the dean's staff, as well as the hospital's chief of staff, under the name of the contractor. Even universities in Turkey today employ people for less than a subcontractor's fee. So all of this is also inefficient. If there is an officer at work, if there is a contractor, if there is a union worker, if there is a trade union worker, if there is a price difference between the same skills and the people of the qualifications, there is no way that you can get efficiency from there, there is no way that you can improve the country. This does not mean that even if your current regime of oppression is unsound, it will continue like this. One day these workers stood up to the bone. When they came out of the street, they couldn't afford your police, your tanks, and your cannons. When the road is near for him... See, twenty years ago, TİSK Secretary General Refiq Baydur Kopeeli said at a meeting at the time: "This subcontractor system will form the private sector of the mafia. Considering how people are trying to destroy each other in mafia ways for tenders today, he expects you to say yes to a research proposal presented to put an end to this system, and I salute it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0028par0424	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. The fourth speaker is Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı. Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0029par0428	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the MHP Group's motion to investigate the problems of subcontractors working in public. I salute the General Assembly. The motion may have good reason for the discussion, but a comprehensive study is being carried out by the Ministry of Labor and will soon be brought to Parliament's agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0030par0430	No, sir, no.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0031par0431	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0029par0432	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, our agenda has been set. The Civil Code Proposal is on the agenda of Congress. In the interest of our country and our nation...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0032par0433	You have important work to do.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0029par0434	...the Parliament must work until the end of the negotiations. Therefore, the MHP declares that we are against the group proposal, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0437	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0034par0438	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0439	I'm going to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's no agreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0035par0442	Mr. President, how many is that? What happened? Who found what?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0443	Sir, we're voting on the electronic device, so we're voting on it, and we're giving it three minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0036par0445	Wait a little longer.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0037par0446	It won't take three minutes, Mr. President. Let's give it 15 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0447	Thank you. We'll do it your way again.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0036par0448	Yeah, do that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0449	At your service. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0038par0452	Mr. President, sir, you voted directly with the electronic device before the General Assembly made its decision. So, you had to make a decision from the General Assembly, and that vote is not valid. You haven't acted properly, so this vote is invalid. First, you should have made up your mind about the way the General Assembly voted.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0453	Now, Mr. Vural, when this Charter is made, there has been no app for long since: The fourth joke of Article 141 states that when the vote is put to a vote, the president and the clerks are able to identify those who raise their hand in favor of the matter and against it, by counting them together. Instead of being repeated by standing up, when they can't agree or detect the votes, there's a vote with an electronic device. There's a tradition, sir, and we've done it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0038par0454	Mr. President, before that, we have testified that when there is no agreement in the application of Mr. Presidents on this matter with an electronic vote, there is a sufficient number of decisions to be sought. That's what the Deputy Speakers were saying before this. So, first, you had to get the General Assembly's will on this matter.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0039par0455	They're voting for an open vote, this is a vote.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0456	Sir, it was applied for open voting, which, as I said, was put before these devices, so the vote was put directly and repetitive.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0040par0457	Mr. President, you're changing the Civil Code, change that too.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0041par0458	No, sir, it's not, it's not.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0459	Sir, this one shows the Charter.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0040par0460	Of course, sir, you'll do what's in the Charter.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0042par0461	We're showing what you've read.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0462	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0042par0463	It doesn't say that here. We don't look at your tradition.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0043par0464	It's about the sign and the vote. So, to be direct here, you have passed a new sentence instead of this Civil Code. Therefore, you had to make a decision from the General Assembly on this matter.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0465	Mr. Vural, I told you, I didn't invent a new charter.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0043par0466	On the mark, in the 141st article...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0467	That's the practice until today. They say, sir, I'm not inventing anything.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0043par0468	Sir, apply the Civil Code. According to the Civil Code, you are not authorized to do so directly by electronic voting. Tell me if you have one.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0033par0469	Sir, I'm not saying I do. I'm saying it's...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0043par0470	No, then, okay, I got it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0044par0471	Or you won't be able to make a new decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0043par0472	You can't do it without him.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0045par0473	Sir, I'm not saying anything. Will you guys stop for a second?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0044par0474	Am I your student, dear? For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0045par0475	Now, if that's the way it's gonna be, let's do it the way it is. After this Charter, these devices were introduced, such is the practice. If you want, we'll ask again, we'll do it again, there's nothing else I can do.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0046par0476	You'll have to cancel the vote.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0045par0477	Yes, sir...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0047par0478	He means standing up!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0045par0479	Yes, sir...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0048par0480	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0045par0481	One second... one second...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0049par0482	Sir, how are you going to call off the vote without the General Assembly's decision?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0050par0483	He's standing up and saying, "Ooh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0045par0484	I see him too. Sit down, for God's sake.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0050par0485	I'm not gonna sit there, I'm not gonna sit there! You're going to do it, this!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0051par0486	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0045par0487	Why don't you sit down? Mr. Canikli, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0051par0489	The practice is in accordance with the practice of this day, the Teamule, and the Civil Law.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0490	No, sir, no. I'm inviting you to comply with the Civil Code, there are no regulations.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0051par0491	It's enough to make a decision, if you're a member of the clerk's...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0492	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0051par0493	...the application to be done electronically by Mr. President when it comes to treason has continued until today.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0494	Mr. President, then we'll see what's going on with that situation, then we'll decide if your high office has not decided on an electronic vote in the previous polls.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0051par0495	Mr. President, we need it for an open vote.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0496	Please, let's make that determination.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0497	Now, my dear friends, according to the information my friends have given me, we mark the vote again. There's no need to be asked again. They say Mr. Vural. That's the information I've been given, that's what they call it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0499	No, sir, you can't, because you applied directly to an electronic vote on the mark. They're telling the truth. On the mark, it was correct if you hadn't applied for an electronic vote here, but by applying for an electronic vote, you changed the form of the vote.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0500	Look, look, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0501	I mean, it's true...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0502	Mr. Vural, look, this is the practice that's always been done...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0503	And I'm saying...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0504	Now, look... will you listen to me for a second, I listened to you. Now, we've voted before, there's been a disagreement between the clerks.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0506	Then...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0507	Wait a second... So we went to an electronic vote based on it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0509	Sir, no...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0510	There's no repeat of this.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0511	Here, you can't leave.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0512	I'm sorry, we'll go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0513	You can't leave!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0514	I think my application is correct.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0515	Sir, no...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0516	I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0517	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0518	Sir, here's the thing...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0519	Mr. President, 63...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0520	The proposal for the nationalist movement party has been rejected. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0523	Mr. President, I'm starting a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0524	Now, come on in.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0525	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0526	Yes, I'd be happy to.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0052par0527	Yes, I'm starting a legal debate against you; you've violated the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0528	Here you go, sir. We're having a discussion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0054par0529	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0530	At least, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0055par0531	Against Mr. Kamer Young.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0532	Against Kamer Young.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0056par0533	Against you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0534	Against Oktay Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0057par0535	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0053par0536	It's Mustafa Elitaş at Lehte. Regarding our attitude, Mr. Kamer Young, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0058par0541	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been made clear how to vote markedly in our Civil Code. Here, the 141st article states that those who raise their hand in favor of the issue and against it during the vote count them together. Only the clerk doesn't leave it to the members. When they disagree or fail to identify the votes, the president says the vote will be repeated by standing up. Although the electronics came in here, but the Civil Code is clear. This electronic voting system came later; there's no change here. Now, then, if there's a conflict between the clerks there, then five members need to get up and ask for a repeat of it before the vote can be repeated, and then there's a vote. Now, friends, of course, there was a amendment here yesterday. Your goal is to fight. Look, Recep Erdogan is saying that he's saying things to the President General. What kind of a man like that, sitting in the Prime Minister's office, would that be? The person sitting in the prime minister's office will be tolerant, embracer, bring whatever measures he can to ensure peace and security in the country. Now Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu says to his son: "Yahu, aren't you from Dersimlı?" But where are you from, Mr. Recep? Aren't you Papunian? So you're from Papunya. But now their names have changed over time. Now, in this country, he could be Classy, he could be Izmirian, he could be anywhere in Turkey. What do you mean by that? Why are you being so separatist? We believe that every city within the borders of the Republic of Turkey is equal, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, a man worthy of any authority in this country. So... for God's sake, aren't you saying this, Mr. Recep? Once you're on the side of peace, make up your mind and speak properly, brother! [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] In this country, sir, we will raise religious, democratic, secular people, modern people. Religion is one thing, secular is another. If you don't know, let your people give you some sense. Find out and come back! Now you're on the stand, someone's telling you... but my friends, they didn't put up with it. He's always going into discrimination, he's bringing up an Alevi-Sunni issue, he wants to see it in Egypt, like Turkey, Syria. Seventy-five people died yesterday in a match when the Muslim brothers came to power. So this is where he wants to bring home?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0059par0549	What's the game got to do with it? Don't mix the straw with the handle!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0058par0550	Now your goal is to take this country to another brother's quarrel. You're the ruling group, why are you here according to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0060par0551	What's the game got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0058par0552	What's the rush? Let's bring the Civil Charter out in a compromise. Look, the worst violence has been done in your time. Do you answer for 35 of our citizens who were killed in the south? You don't.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0061par0556	Mr. Young, thank you very much, sir. Now, in favor of our attitude, Mr. Nurettin Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Canikli. You have three minutes. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0561	Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, I salute you all. We believe that a generation of believers, a youth, should be raised, and we think that the guarantee of the future of the country (CARP) is through the youth of faith, but I don't know what kind of youth you want, I don't care about us. Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0063par0564	We want secular, democratic, patriotic youth.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0064par0565	We want a free man.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0566	It's your discretion, we don't know it, Mr. President said it, it's your discretion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0065par0567	Patriot...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0066par0568	There are religious youth in Saudi Arabia, also in Iran! We want secular, democratic, patriotic youth.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0569	Look, dear friends, this electronic system that every congressman is currently using was set up before us, so it was set up before the AK PARTI Authority.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0065par0570	We want youth that doesn't surrender to imperialism, that doesn't surrender to exploitation.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0571	It's a good system, and since it's been established, this sentence has just been carried out the way Mr. President executes it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0065par0572	We want youth that doesn't surrender to colonialism.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0573	Without exception, in all governments, during the term of all presidents and vice presidents, during the term of the entire group's vice presidents, during all parties, in all parties, this rule was implemented in this way, after the electronic system, when the electronic system came into existence; in the final order, it was logical, it was very natural. We need to thank everyone who contributes, everyone who builds it, I thank you, I thank you. Think about it, the MPs will stand up one by one, and it will count, so it's an incredible waste of time.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0067par0575	You know, if you'd fixed it... your mind is working on other things!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0576	But technology allows it, and so did those who were before us, those who lived before us, and those who ruled this House, together, with the unanimous vote, all political parties, there's no need to stand up like this one by one, the system has been established, let's take advantage of the resources of technology, and let's do it this way. They said, "Well, let's do it this way."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0067par0577	Mr. Canikli, you're making a amendment, why don't you? Put it down, put what you need.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0068par0578	Why haven't you changed it in ten years, Mr. Canicli?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0579	Why, what's wrong with that, so what's wrong with that? When this system is set up, then it's implemented, maybe there's a chance that we have some friends who've been elected, who've served in the political parties that are currently in place. That includes our friends, including these officers, officials, political party officials. Dear friends, this isn't the right approach, this isn't the right approach, so there's no problem here, the House is working. Okay, we get it, you're trying to block Congress work, you're trying to block it, you're trying to delay it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0068par0581	No, sir, we're trying to compromise. We invite you to compromise.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0582	You're doing that. Does that mean anything else? So what I've just said in the frame is that a rule that has been carried out and carried out so far today is contrary to this decree of the Civil Code, which is not true. Is there any other meaning, any other interpretation? This is to stop the Parliament from working...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0068par0583	You're the one who stopped it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0584	...is to block this Parliament's work, other than preventing the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which cannot be explained in any other way, dear friends. So please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0068par0585	It's the AKP hegemonia we're trying to prevent, and we're trying to stop AKP fascism.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0062par0586	Of course, when wrong is done, there is an objection, when injustice is done, we can't object to it, but it's not right, it's not right, or it's not right, or it's not right for me to say it, dear friends. You have to be clear. We don't want this Assembly to work. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0589	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0070par0590	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0591	Just a minute, sir, if you'll just let us finish.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0070par0592	Mr. President, one moment, sir...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0593	Sir...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0070par0594	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0595	Mr. President, I promise you, let's hear the last speaker for a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0070par0596	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0071par0597	The Vice President may have a thing, so listen up.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0598	Allow me to direct, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0070par0599	But, Mr. President, there's something I'd like to express, sir. In his Canikli speech, Mr. Canikli said, "We want a generation of believers, I don't know what kind of generation you want." He said, "The Republican People's Party doesn't want a generation of believers." He's clearly been bullying our group. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0072par0600	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0601	Now, after Mr. Vural, I promise not to tease you. Have a seat, sir. Mr. Vural, please. On the contrary, Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0073par0605	Mr. President, I'm sorry. There's a wrong seat on the stand. Don't sit on the stand, Mr. President. I'm sorry, there's been a mistake on the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0606	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0073par0607	The older member must sit on your right, the younger member must sit on your left. Please look at the Charter, you're doing it wrong. You're doing it wrong. Look, it's the Charter.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0609	I'm not doing it, sir. Everyone's in their seats, and there's nothing wrong with them sitting there.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0073par0610	No, Mr. President, you're making a mistake.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0611	Please... please... please take your seat... please take your seat...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0073par0612	But first, correct this wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0069par0613	Mr. Vural, come in, sir. Your time is three minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0615	Thank you, Mr. President. When I take your word here first, I hope that you have not taken this position today with the duty of fulfilling the will and desire of the majority, which is willing to lower the voice of the opposition with the imposition of the Civil Code, I hope you don't mean that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0075par0617	There's... there's...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0618	Now, mark it... I just told you, it's clearly written here in the ballot. You didn't follow that pattern, you went to an electronic vote. So I said to you: "If there is such an application, find out whether there is any practice against this practice, and tell us that you have not even made this assessment, and find out whether the decision of the General Assembly has been taken when you go to the electronic vote, because there was not enough decision on the electronic vote before this. I said, "You have not done this." So, at this point that we're here today, this vote you've made is invalid, you haven't followed it. Let not God test anyone by His words. Nurettin Canikli just got up and said, "Ya, the parties agreed on this, so what's wrong with that?" It's been implemented so far. But didn't this practice have to be made a commitment to political parties in the Civil Charter, which you brought in? Why do you say that's wrong and change it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0076par0620	We don't have that kind of explanation for the Civil Code. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0621	That's how it works, when it suits you, isn't it? Let not God put anyone to the test by His words.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0076par0622	Let go if you love God! Do you know what you're talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0623	Look, you came in today, you fell into this trap.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0076par0624	We know what we're talking about.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0625	And at this point where we're here today, you say, "Sir, what's wrong with that? Why are you keeping everyone quiet? Why are you cutting the rights of lawmakers, lawmakers who have come by the votes of this nation, who have come by the heli, from the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0076par0626	To run the House, to run the House efficiently.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0627	Why are you keeping everyone quiet?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0076par0628	No interruptions!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0629	What is it with you, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, that the suffering of the pensioner, the unassigned teachers, the farmers' problems are brought here and discussed?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0076par0630	We don't have that kind of disease. Bring it every day, you're already bringing it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0631	Why are you so uncomfortable with the rights of this nation being defended here and you being audited? There's nothing wrong with us. Why can't you digest opposition in this democracy? Why are you trying to interrupt the sound?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0077par0634	We can't run the coven, coven!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0074par0635	In that regard, it is the majority party of the AKP (AKP) that blocked the original Parliament's work today. With a majority of them, my fellow citizens, they want to interrupt us here. They don't want us to talk here, that's the point. Those who have no words today want to shut you down in this House. (Applause from the MHP and CHP) They've also turned off the parliamentary television, and they want to turn it off. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] His goal and goal is to silence people, digest them. They won't achieve their goals or goals.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0640	Thank you, Mr. Vural. My dear friends -- this practice -- has been reached at the end of the meeting of the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 5/10/1998 -- and the 8th article of this article says, "It will be carried out by electronic system, in other cases, by the lifting of the hand of members. This is the first one.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0079par0642	That's a new Civil Code violation, no way!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0643	One second, sir, one second. Please... The latest application is...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0080par0645	Which one's better? Is that better, or is that the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0081par0646	It's a new charter, you can't do that!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0647	Please... I mean, please sit down... It's the latest app, which has been applied since 98, 9/4/2008, where it has a guardianship, and it can see any of our friends who want it. For your information.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0082par0650	Sir, the wrong example is not an example!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0651	Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0083par0652	Mr. President, well, then, did you give this information, before that, whether or not the General Assembly has decided to vote electronically on the vote?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0084par0653	Mr. President, there has been no electronic vote, sir, the vote will be carried out through the electronic system and the number of decisions will be sufficient...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0654	Sir, look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0083par0655	Come on, explain this!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0656	Sir, let me explain...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0083par0657	Explain, what explanation?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0085par0658	Are we having a formal discussion here, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0659	If he can't make a sign vote, it's not done, it's done in other ways.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0083par0660	You've been assigned there.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0661	You don't want to understand, that's the point!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0086par0662	The Civil Code is superior, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0083par0663	You were assigned last night as a result of your meeting with the AKP Group. You had a meeting with the AKP Group last night!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0078par0664	Here you are, sir. Here you are, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0087par0667	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, Mr. Prime Minister and his spokesmen have started to apply again to an old policy, to do politics through religion, through Islam. Don't you want to raise a religious generation?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0088par0669	We didn't bring it up.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0087par0670	Speaking on his behalf, we want to raise a generation of believers. They say, "We want to promote society's policy of polarization on religion, on religion, on religion."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0088par0671	Your speaker told me.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0087par0672	I'd like to ask the Justice and Development Party Group and the Government, Mr. Prime Minister: Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Canikli, what is religion, what is Islam? Yes, I'm asking, are you saying that the way Islam predicts it is enough to carry out its execution? Is religion merely the execution of rituals, the fulfillment of speech? So when five times of prayer is performed, and the fast is fasted, and the terms of Islam is fulfilled, do you think that you are Muslims? Religion is a matter of property. Seven hundred years ago, Ibn Haldun said: "All power leads to wealth, wealth leads to power; these two are called property. He said, "God is the greatest. You're not big. This means that property belongs to all; power belongs to all; power belongs to the people; but what you have brought today is ours. (CHEERING) That's your idea of Islam! I advise you to read the Ma'un Surah in the Qur'an. The 13th surah is a race of riches and multiplying, which will go on until the grave. It condemns the savage capitalism, saying. Then there comes a second surah: Woe to those who pray, if you do not pay heed, and if you do not pay heed to the poor, and if you are unjust. It's not your prayer, it says. I dedicate the Maun Sure to you. This is your prayer!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0088par0674	That's not your call to make.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0087par0675	Prayer is justice. And he who prostrates his forehead when he stands up prostrate, The prayer begins at the end of the mosque, and the religion begins at the end of the mosque, and the fast begins at the end of its fasting. You leave fasting, and you leave prayer in the mosque, and you say, "It is our power." Islam is a matter of property, a matter of spending.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0089par0677	That's right, I agree.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0087par0678	It is based on the belief that there is a right to impossible things in the means of those who possess it, or else it is not your understanding of giving some of the wealth of the rich to the poor, but it is your understanding. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0090par0681	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. In favor of our attitude, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0091par0687	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Indeed, during this period, in the 24th century, we hear very important things. The decree of my Lord is the most important thing. Remember, on March 14, 2008, a closed case was filed against the AK PARTY. One of the main articles of the closing case is that in the exercise of this law, the congregations are under the foundation, the unions are in the association. A newspaper headlined his statement, and they put this in the closure case. Now I see that representatives of the Republican People's Party are competing with the Justice and Development Party to see who will raise a more religious generation, thank my Lord.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0092par0691	No way!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0093par0692	What's that got to do with it? You're talking about yourself again!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0091par0693	Now, I'm thankful again for the Republican People's Party's Deputy Group President and the former group of vice presidents who entered a race to see who made more mosques. Mr. Hamzacebi, I really think it's a great improvement to have an understanding in such an approach by entering into both verses and surahs and through the Maoun surah into the content of Islam.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0094par0695	I'm criticizing your sense of religion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0095par0696	We criticize your hypocrisy.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0091par0697	At the end of July 2008, the Constitutional Court, those who bring up the issue about us being focused here every day, when we try to express the word of God from here, the Qur'an, you're in business. Those who say, now, they're trying to talk about events and verses...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0096par0698	He shows we know better than you do!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0091par0699	Praise be to God, Turkey is on its way to a very important point, and I believe it contributes to the Republican People's Party. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for the Civil Code, dear friends, Mr. President has read from here the application for Article 141 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0097par0702	Mr. Elitaş, are you saying anything different than what the Prime Minister said? Are you saying the Republican People's Party's opinion on this is not what the Prime Minister stated?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0091par0703	He read the chapter on the 141th article of the Civil Charter. It says here, if they don't get along... there's no open vote here, there's only enough to decide. He wants the number of decisions in connection with Article 96 of the Constitution. If there is no agreement between him and the clerk members, what if he will raise the parties, President, but as he has just read, the decision made in 1998 was made to determine whether the number 139 was reached when the electronic system entered. And we've got an open vote. Our fellow congressmen are stirring this up. The request for an open vote is either a signed motion by 15 MPs or an open vote when they stand up; it is the system that must be carried out in accordance with Article 143. Mr. President, if you read Article 143, as it has been done so far to resolve a conflict between him and the clerk members, there is no ruling on whether the open vote will be carried out with the electronic device, but the President says I will present the form of an open vote with the General Assembly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I submit to your votes that it should be done by electronic device: those who don't accept... say... Something that doesn't exist, just as the Presidential Court has made such a decision here, it's true that the President has applied it in the same way. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0711	Mr. Elitaş, thank you. Congressmans, as I've suggested before, it seems we've acted in accordance with previous practices. So I don't see any mistake in our attitude, any irregularity. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: 02.02.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot vote among political party groups at a meeting Thursday (January 2:02,2012), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of Interior. M. Akif Hamzacebi On 23,12,2011, it was suggested by Burdur MP Ramazan Kerim Özkan and his friends to be read to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the same time as other proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly (88 rows) and to be held in the same session of their talks. Now, I'm going to promise two friends on the Republican People's Party Group proposal, in favor and against it. The first statement is from Burdur MP Ramadan Kerim Özkan. Mr. Özkan, come in, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, sir, you're acting against the Civil Code again. So what, sir? OK, VURAL - I have a preference, so I have a request. You started without fulfilling his request. The subject we're discussing...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0099par0733	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0100par0734	It's been voted, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0735	Now, the Republican People's Party Group's proposal has been agreed on the words.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0099par0736	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0737	And in practice, the first thing you've said so far is that the group recommends... No, Mr. President, just a minute, sir. Just a minute, sir. Just a second, sir, let me finish.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0101par0740	What deal?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0741	I'll finish the sentence, sir. They put it here.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0101par0742	No, no, that's not the deal. I want you to apply the relevant clause of the Civil Code. What deal, dear? Deal when it suits you, deal when it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0743	What does it have to do with coming to work, not coming to work? OCTAY VURAL (Izmir) - Apply Article 61 of the Civil Code. Now, look... here are the four-person words in the other motions, and we're giving it to you. Now, according to 61, what issue do you want to talk about, the Republican People's Party's proposal? OK, VURAL - the subject of the interview. Are we talking about something else? We're seeing a game! We haven't seen each other yet. You just opened it! Proposal requests are considered before we begin the interview. I have an application. You'll do it. Do you want to talk about it or against it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0102par0751	Sir?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0103par0752	Mr. President, what does he want?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0753	In favor of the issue, against what?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0102par0754	Sir, look, what does the Civil Code say?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0755	What's he saying?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0102par0756	Have you read Article 61?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0757	You read it, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0102par0758	Well, let me read it: if the General Assembly sees the need, it is promised in favor of the discussion, against and above.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0759	Okay.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0102par0760	I want it on you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0098par0761	That's my line.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0102par0762	No, sir. Well, there's my motion. I have a motion there.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0104par0763	Mr. President, we're doing it according to 63. We'll teach everyone the Civil Code when the Civil Code is spoken!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0102par0764	He's there, in favor, against.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit01spe0105par0765	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna take a five-minute break, so let's consider the matter.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0105par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Oktay Vural wanted to speak according to Article 61 of the Interior Charter. As you know, the meetings of the group proposals are promised in favour and against the two MPs according to Article 63 of the Civil Code, which is the special clause on the proposals. And Mr. Vural said, "I want word according to Article 61." He said, "This is the general sentence." So the sentence in implementing the proposals is the 63rd article, where two people are promised in favor and against. The 61st article states that when a person asks for a general sentence, I read the first one exactly as I read it, according to the order of word, registration, or request. If the General Assembly sees the need, it is promised in order, in favour of the discussion, and against and above. Now, this is a general decree, and in my opinion, if the General Assembly sees the need for it. Now, I can only promise that Mr. Vural will make this request in accordance with the special clause 63, which is out of the general discussion, in the order that it is understood, or else I will have to make a commitment according to the General Assembly's decision in accordance with Article 61. Now, item 61...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0106par0004	We can't go from the first sentence to the second. First, the first sentence says "Promise."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0105par0005	Just a minute, sir. Wait a minute... wait a minute... Now, the General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0107par0007	Mr. President, may I?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0105par0008	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0107par0009	It is true that the General Assembly must decide if it is to be spoken according to Article 61, the General Assembly must consider it necessary.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0105par0010	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0108par0011	Okay, he's doing the procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0107par0012	Wait a minute... There's no need to vote, Mr. President is here. The reason is that the General Assembly doesn't see the need, so it has to do a special procedure to make it necessary. Therefore, the General Assembly cannot be voted on, Mr. President. So if the General Assembly sees the need... it is not the will of such a General Assembly at this time.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0109par0014	Sir, don't change the line. Let's read it again, we're reading it wrong. Before reading the title, he says, "Don't change the order of the word and the order of the word. "
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0107par0015	Therefore, if the General Assembly makes a decision in accordance with the procedure, it can be made under Article 61, otherwise no promises and no voting can be made, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0110par0016	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0111par0017	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0110par0018	So Nurettin Canicli is probably having a little bit of a discussion about your app.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0111par0019	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0112par0020	No, I didn't say that; I'm just saying, I'm not having a conversation.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0110par0021	It's a matter of opinion on the application...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0113par0022	The purpose has been to invite his friends, invite his friends to vote.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0023	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0110par0024	No, if he's having a conversation, let him say it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0115par0025	Mr. President, I'm expressing my opinion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0026	No, we just had a formal discussion, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0115par0027	And I'm not having a formal debate. And it is up to me to do so.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0028	Yes, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0029	Sir, there's a promise in order in favor of the matter of discussion, against and above. When you say here, the General Assembly has the authority to determine its order in favor, against and above.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0030	No, if the General Assembly sees the need, it is in turn promised in favour of the discussion, against and above.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0031	One at a time. Because there's a line of words and a line of words, and there's nothing about the quality of the word.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0032	No, according to that student...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0033	Now you're going to have a motion to speak on your behalf, on your behalf, and on yours. The General Assembly may decide on the matter in order to make promises in favor, against, and above. That's the point.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0034	Mr. Vural, the item applied there is referred to as article 63, the speech on the subject of the law, and...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0035	That's the way it is...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0036	And also, if you'll notice, we've just done this kind of work on all the suggestions, so in favor, we've gone by promising two people against each other. If he goes there, I say, if there's no deal on this four-way thing, if you want to make a promise, we can make one, but other than that, it's applied.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0037	I said it's on, Mr. President. I say: Now you can appreciate that sometimes it's in his favor, it's against him, and sometimes it's on him.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0038	Of course, of course.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0039	It doesn't have to make sense.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0040	Okay.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0041	So it's going to be white on one side, black on the other, so there's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0042	No, that's not it, all right.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0043	There might be another color to tell the truth.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0044	Right.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0117par0045	Sir, for him, the General Assembly has to decide, there is no such decision.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0046	In this regard, he has three words in his favor here, against him, above him.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0114par0047	Right.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0048	So we're not having a formal discussion today. I wanted to talk to you about what's in favor, what's against it. I don't want to talk about...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0118par0049	Mr. President, the General Assembly must have made a decision before the 61st Article can be made.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0050	You're saying I need to get the General Assembly's decision to give a speech on it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0051	Now, what I'm saying, Mr. Vural, is that we've witnessed two previous group proposals, and you've witnessed them here...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0052	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0053	...we're operating on group proposals based on Article 63.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0054	Right.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0055	Here's a promise of four people in favor, against two.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0056	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0057	Now I'm saying that four people have come to me before. If there's a mistake here, if there's a line and so forth, I can promise you one of these. Or, as we do in the others, we pledge to this order, which is apparently placed before us. When you say 61, he has the right to a general statement and has nothing to do with what we're doing right now.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0116par0058	I mean, Mr. President, are you saying that a member has no right to speak on the subject of a meeting, not against it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0059	No, of course there is...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0120par0060	If the General Assembly decides, Mr. President, according to 61, the General Assembly decides.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0061	...but we've been applying Article 63 on proposals, and we've been applying them all morning, and you're a witness.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0121par0062	But, sir, the 61st article here is in order to change the order and order of speech...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0063	Right.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0122par0064	Mr. President, the General Assembly doesn't have a decision according to 61, so he can't have that kind of say.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0121par0065	...and if the General Assembly has made a request here, it also has the right to speak on the basis of this request, which the General Assembly can determine.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0066	No, not now.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0121par0067	Has there ever been an app like this before?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0068	Yes, sir, I do, I'm afraid I do.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0123par0069	Mr. President, when are you going to apply Article 61?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0070	Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0123par0071	When will you apply Article 61?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0124par0072	When the General Assembly has decided, Mr. President. If the General Assembly appreciates it, if the General Assembly sees fit.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0073	That's the general verdict, Mr. Young, and you know it. I mean, we've just read the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, and the debate on this is up to 63.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0125par0074	Mr. President, we can't go to the general judgment when there's a special verdict. The 61st article has a special sentence.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0075	63, special sentence, yes, that's right. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0126par0077	Sir, I'd like to ask you now if there's anything that's been done before that about a request for a conversation, is there a procedure? So when there's a demand, do you take turns making promises, or don't the General Assembly refuse the right to talk about them?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0078	Mr. Vural, the information given to me in our assessment of our friends when we get to the back is to be processed according to 63.. after the motions have been read.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0127par0079	President, take a break, think about it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0080	As for the 61, they say it's not about that. They say it's only possible by order of the General Assembly... or by permission of the General Assembly there. That's the information I was given.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0128par0081	Sir, look, I gave you my compass when the motion was being read, before you even submitted the words to the General Assembly. When I gave it to the Clerk Member and his friends there, when he called it the Republican People's Party's motion, I passed on my request.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0082	Okay, but they delivered this, and that's our app.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0129par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0119par0084	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0129par0085	Mr. President, it seems there's been a conflict, Mr. Vural is making a serious claim, you're making a different opinion, let's take a break, sir, let's have a meeting with all the political party chiefs, let's consider it, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0130par0087	That's not true!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0131par0088	Learn the law, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0132par0089	Mr. President, there's a...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0133par0090	Let's take a break.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0131par0091	Let's take a break, take a break.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0134par0092	Let's take a break, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0135par0093	Why take a break? We're here to work. Our nation expects our services.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0094	Gentlemen, a moment of your time. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0137par0096	Mr. President, it states here that you may be entitled to speak on behalf of the Civil Code, in the case of demand. There may not have been any demands, but as far as I can tell, you're having second thoughts about how to process this request. So, about that...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0138par0097	No, no, the General Assembly decides.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0098	Sir, I've considered it in the back with some of the friends who evaluated the incident here, so we can do the right thing. The information I've been given...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0139par0099	You can't talk to friends, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0100	Sir, just a second... will you sit down and see if you're a professor? I'm talking to my friend right now.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0139par0101	I'm already sitting down. I can stand up if I want to. Why don't you sit down? Am I your student? I'm not your student!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0102	Scream, then, shout! All right, shout!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0139par0103	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0104	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0139par0105	Sit down... sit down...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0106	Now, Mr. Vural, the information they've given me is that it may be with the approval of the General Assembly. That's what I'm trying to say.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0140par0107	Mr. President, I beg you, has there been any practice before this, or has there not been? I wonder if you could find out.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0141par0108	Have them take a look at him, sir. Let the experts take a look, Mr. President. This isn't the place to argue.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0109	I asked, they told me...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0140par0110	Do you have any?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0141par0111	The House has an agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0112	The information I've been given is only possible with the approval of the General Assembly, at 61.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0140par0113	Before that, it was with the approval of the General Assembly?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0114	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0140par0115	I think they'll give us samples.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0136par0116	I guess they will. I'll get some samples.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0142par0117	Who's giving you information? What power is there over the House, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0143par0118	Mr. President, now...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0142par0119	What power is there over the House, Mr. President? Which officer is above the House? Can you tell me about it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0144par0120	Why don't you sit down first? Look, I'm talking to your Deputy Director of the Group. Please, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0143par0121	Mr. President, you're consulting bureaucrats with information you received. Our impression is that you don't have a decision to make about this. You're transferring the Bureaucrats' views, we're creating an argument here. The healthy one is to interrupt the session and discuss it with the group's vice presidents, sir. I mean, otherwise, we're not gonna get any results here.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0145par0122	Mr. President, look, it's a very clear sentence that is the 61st Amendment. That could happen if the General Assembly appreciates it. Does the General Assembly have a decision on this? No. Therefore, no commitment can be made without a decision from the General Assembly. Such a clear verdict. If Mr. Vural wants information on this, friends will investigate the information and present what they have, Mr. President. That's the way it is. I mean, there's no way to understand the insistence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0146par0123	Mr. President, now Mr. Canikli thinks the General Assembly of this place is the General Assembly of beans! This is the General Assembly! So these MPs aren't on the General Assembly?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0145par0124	You think he's you!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0146par0125	You're telling me! The General Assembly decides. You say. This General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0145par0126	You've been diluted, you've been trying to dilute it all morning.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0146par0127	Mr. President, he says the General Assembly has to make a decision about this, and you say: "No, it hasn't been taken before this. " Then aren't these friends the MPs?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0145par0128	Sir, it's a decision, I say you can't talk without a decision, it's not a promise. No decision, no decision.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0147par0129	Okay. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0148par0131	Sir, when Mr. President presents, you object.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0147par0132	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0149par0133	He can't make the decision, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0148par0134	He can't take it. He says.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0147par0135	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0148par0136	He can't take it. He says.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0147par0137	No, he can't. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0148par0138	You can't take it. It says.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0147par0139	No, no.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0148par0140	He can't take it. He says.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0150par0141	Sir, if there's a decision he can make, he can only promise. He can't make a decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0148par0142	He can't take it. He says, sir. He says he can't take any promises.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0151par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0148par0144	Mr. President, according to the procedure you want to implement, the AKP Group Deputy Chairman, the General Assembly here says it's not important, you can't take it. This General Assembly has no will, they can't make a decision. There isn't. He says! For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0152par0145	Mr. President, look, what I'm saying is very clearly, the General Assembly has no decision to make. Since the General Assembly has no such decision, there is no General Assembly decision. If he had a decision like that, it could be made, but it's not his decision, Mr. President. Since he has no such decision, on what grounds will he be spoken? Is that possible?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0151par0147	Shall I tell him, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0153par0148	Yes, Mr. Chancer, okay. Mr. Vural, let's hear it for a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0154par0150	What just happened?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0153par0151	Okay, we've heard yours, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0154par0152	Guys, put your hands on your conscience.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0155par0153	Mr. Vural, please do the work. You do it, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0154par0154	Mr. Group Vice President, the MPs here do not represent the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0155par0155	So far, it's been conducted according to 63...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0154par0156	That's the General Assembly! That's the General Assembly! They're not officers, they're MPs.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0155par0157	Is it possible that such a thing could be admissible to the work of the House? This is an insult to the People's Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0154par0158	Well, then, Mr. President, with his attitude, he's having a formal discussion. The General Assembly says you must apply to the General Assembly's will in case it is necessary, which says no.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0155par0159	Mr. President, I know what I opened, what I didn't open, and I know what this conversation means, Mr. President. I don't have that request.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0154par0160	So this calls for a procedure discussion, but I think what we're really looking for here as the General Assembly is true that you want to do it. Why is it true? Am I having second thoughts here, or is this the time to talk about it? So it's pretty clear that we need a General Assembly decision here.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0155par0161	No, the General Assembly is required to decide, Mr. President, but the General Assembly cannot decide on this request. If a decision has been made, it can only be discussed. There's no decision taken.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0154par0162	Mr. Nurettin doesn't count the General Assembly of these MPs today as the General Assembly, but I believe these MPs have their will.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0156par0163	Of course.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0154par0164	Well, then, what you're doing is correct, but I'm just having second thoughts, is this the right time or the right time to talk about it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0156par0165	Okay, if you'll excuse me, just a second. Yes, Mr. Chancer, I'll listen to you and we'll make a decision.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0157par0167	Dear President, dear friends, the Civil Code is the law we have to abide by. If the words of this Civil Charter are important, Article 61 will justify the claim of Mr. Vural. See, it says that if the General Assembly sees the need, it is expressed in favor of the discussion, against it, and above it, as a different way of saying it, it is promised in order of three things. How do you promise? If the General Assembly sees the need. Now, you can only bring it up at the request of the General Assembly if it is necessary. Now, there's a demand, so you're going to open a debate on whether or not it's necessary, so you're going to decide whether it's necessary or not. So if you try to implement this Civil Code, you need to open up both the order and the promise to be made against and against, and the order to negotiate whether the General Assembly sees the need for it, so that you can reach a conclusion and a decision in accordance with the Civil Code. I'm afraid so.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0156par0169	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0158par0170	Mr. President, I want to thank Mr. Shandir, they've made their point very clear. So there's going to be a debate, Mr. President, and they're insisting on it. I don't know how much abuse has been attempted, how much abuse has been attempted...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0159par0171	Yeah, what's being abused?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0158par0172	So in every case, in each interview, they can demand a word according to 61, then, Mr. President. What in God's name could that be?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0160par0173	Sure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0158par0174	That's why you're insulting the nation. Look, it's a shame, it's a shame. I mean, can it be used like that?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0161par0176	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0158par0177	That's not true, that's not true. There is no such thing in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0162par0178	It's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0158par0179	The General Assembly has no such decision. You can make a decision if it's taken, but it's not a decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0163par0180	Mr. President, Mr. Canicli...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0158par0181	The vote cannot be voted, nor can the promise be made according to 61. Let them give it to you according to 63.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0163par0182	Mr. President, look, I've warned Mr. Canikli over and over again from here that if you try to lower the voice of opposition in this Civil Code, there are 40 paths between the words, between the lines, and this discussion is not going to be held. He has no right to silence me now. We reminded him of that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0158par0183	We will run this House under the authority vested in us by the Civil Code and by the authority vested in us by our nation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0164par0185	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0165par0186	People have given us authority, and we will not restrict the authority of the nation! You're not gonna get the authority people gave you!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0164par0187	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0166par0188	He's given the authority he gave you to the opposition parties, too, folks.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0164par0189	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0167par0190	Speak to those who don't respect the House of Nations, to those who don't respect the House of Law!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0168par0191	He didn't give it to us? Respect the House of People. People gave him authority and he didn't give it to us?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0169par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0170par0193	Your Honour... just a moment, Mr. Shandur...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0169par0194	A reverse practice would be against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0171par0195	You're demanding a statement against the Civil Code. Otherwise, of course, the opposition will talk, talk a lot.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0169par0196	There are lawyers here, let's discuss it together.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0172par0197	Mr. Chancer, look, if you read the whole thing...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0169par0198	I'm reading the whole thing, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0172par0199	No, but you read the first joke, and then when you leave, it's a general clause in the government, the principal commission, etc. However, we're applying 63 ▪ on the views of groups, which is a special substance. And you're a lawyer, so you're saying underlaws.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0169par0200	Look, sir, look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0172par0201	So this is the special ingredient, and here...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0169par0202	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0173par0203	A common substance is not a special substance.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0172par0204	Here, before the president starts the meeting, the government, the main commission, political party groups, is the MP's word, the MP's last word is the MP's, etc., etc., and we don't apply them here, why? This is the 63rd article, this is a special item.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0173par0205	It's not a common substance, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0172par0206	No.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0174par0207	There is a new situation, Mr. President, in favour of the negotiations, and in the case of demand against and over the 61st article, and in the case the General Assembly sees the need, the order of negotiations in favor, against and over. Now, this is the decree of the Civil Code, and that is what we demand.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0175par0208	Mr. President, I want the General Assembly to decide on this matter. Mr. President, everything must be in order, according to the Civil Code. I want a Parliamentary decision on this matter. It doesn't happen the moment he says it. He has no place in the Civil Code, Mr. President. Then...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0174par0209	Well, there is.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0175par0210	No, I don't. If there's a decision on that subject, let's do it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0174par0212	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit02spe0176par0213	All right, sir, copy that. I'm gonna take a five-minute break, so let's talk to the group's vice presidents in the back, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0176par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Vural has offered to open a formal discussion on his request. In order....
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0177par0003	In favor, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0178par0004	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0179par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0180par0006	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0181par0007	Yeah, two against, two against...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0182par0008	It's got...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0183par0009	Who's against you?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0181par0010	Who's against you? Mr. Vural with Hamzacebi. Lehte...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0184par0012	Give it to one person in each group.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0185par0013	One for each group...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0186par0014	Let's give it to one person...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0187par0015	Let's give it to each other, okay. Mr. Vural, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Canikli, Mr. Kaplan... Now, in order, Mr. Vural, please. The time is three minutes each.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0188par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the 61st article includes a change of line and line of speech. Thus, the sentence is given according to the order of the Word, registration, or request. When the presidential court demands come in here, you'll be in order to register or request. Now, when you do this sequence, if, for example, there's talks on opposites, favours, and above, you have to promise what's against you first, in the order of the deposition. But if you want to make a priority promise, not against it, but against what's in its favor, then the General Assembly will make a decision or make it first, with a demand to speak on it. According to this verdict, you have to promise anyone who wants to talk about it first. But if you want to promise against it and against it, and in order to be on it, then you can only do so by the General Assembly's decision, and here the General Assembly can make an arrangement on the order of our MPs' demands, against and against. Other than that, he can't ignore these promises. Now, the problem arises here: In accordance with what article of the Civil Charter, the discussion we have made under this Council of Counsellors' recommendation? In our discussion inside, you say that this is an argument regarding the procedure, and you say that you will not be promised in a meeting that includes a formal debate on the terms of two people who have been promised and against it. So, I suppose, since there is no application on this issue, in this case, you have the right to just change the line of speech, in favor of you, against you, and above. Your application must be explained by the Presidential Court, according to 63, or by 61. If so, you may be able to perform an application in the form of "We promise" because you are not allowed to talk about it here. But this Civil Code also gives our MPs the right to speak on its behalf, not against it, but against it. That's how we interpret it. The General Assembly only makes the order. In that case, you can really make a decision in the form of a change in the Civil Code, I don't know. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, I have a say in the matter of whether or not we should use our say-so on the Council decision. In this regard, I'm appealing to the benefit of your application by basing it on a Article of the Civil Code in the framework of 61 or 63.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0189par0027	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Now in favor of Mr. Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0190par0029	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, brought in the motions of all groups according to 19 ▪, as the Council of Counsellors failed to form. There's a lot of rhetoric going on here. We're meeting with the group presidents. If we compromise, we initial. When you initial it, it's the speakers speaking in terms of compromise, or everyone can write themselves down to get a promise. According to the Civil Charter 60, when a request is filed, the request is recorded or requested or reported in writing. In this case, the promise will be made according to 61. Of course, there's an argument here. So the talks have to be in favor and against? The Civil Code is very clear, it says in the law, against it, and above it. So one group's proposal may not be enough, partly you agree, partly you want to complete it, or the ruling party brings in 20 proposals for the law, and there are three of them you're offering. Why wouldn't he have a speech against you? So, here, by chance, there are four party groups because of this 10% dam system. Two for him, two against him. That's how it's always been in practice. What if three parties came to the House or five parties came to the House? What if Mr. Ahmet Türk, who has not formed a group, who has 10 MPs or are independent, wakes up and asks for words now? Mr. Ahmet Türk is up, independent MP. Last semester's party was shut down, so he's banned, wants to fill his third year, and he wants to make a commitment. Mr. Turk, you can also make a promise here at this time to discuss this procedure. He doesn't have to... he doesn't have to speak against him. It would be better to talk about one of the aspects of a subject that he finds lacking, and to criticize the missing parts of it, and to do so, it might be a mixed opinion, a mixed opinion. Now, for God's sake, the motion by the mp of the subcontractors on the condition of the railroads or what we've come up with is that if you were against the development of the railways as a power, you wouldn't have made a fast train to Eskişehir, Konya. The concept here is a true concept. It's not right to force anyone against you, it's not right to limit the right to speak to groups. So far, independent lawmakers have been given this limitation, and so do we. Mr. Ahmet Türk and our other friends -- Layla Zana, they -- will all run this law. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0191par0037	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Against Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0192par0040	Mr. President, lawmakers, it is possible to give three kinds of talks on the matter discussed in favour, against and above, according to Article 61 of the Civil Code. It may not have been implemented until now, but there is another third option, including the alternatives,,, and,,,,,,,,,,,,. This is clearly, clearly, in Article 61. The first joke of the 61st article states: ▪ It is given according to the order of speech, registration, or request. This is the first rule. Whoever has applied to the Court before, who has registered his name has a priority on the word, but in the second joke, if the General Assembly finds it necessary, there is a promise in order to meet in favor of it, against it, and above it. The General Assembly says that taking into account the records made by the Court may change the order of the talks that are likely to be made in favor, against or over it. He may speak against the first person to apply, a bill of the ruling party, possibly the opposition against him. The first responder will speak against you, and if the General Assembly sees the need, they can give the first application order to the one who will speak in favor of it, but it will also be against it. The important thing is that he has the right to speak to an MP or a political party group. It's very clear, very clear. May we apply this decree of the Civil Law to the subject we are now discussing? This is a separate discussion. Mr. President says the 63rd Amendment will be applied there. Since the 63rd article is more specific, the special rule of law applies to the general rule. Since its principle applies, it gives a different interpretation, we can also discuss it. On this occasion, I would also like to say that Mr. Canikli made the comment that I just made in the back, which means that when we start talking about the Civil Code, the MPs have the right to talk about it, and it's been registered. And with this argument of procedure, we've made that clear. I'd like to bring up another topic. The 91st Amendment of the Civil Code states that lawmakers are entitled to two motions, but political parties are entitled to one motion. This means that, given the Constitutional Court's decision on the issue of 2001, political party groups may be granted a motion other than the right to a motion, which is a right given to lawmakers. We'll remind you of that when the internal charter talks begin. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0193par0046	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. The last speaker on the subject is Nurettin Canikli, Giresun. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0194par0050	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0195par0051	Keep it on you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0193par0052	Lehte...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0196par0053	In the middle, in the middle!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0197par0054	You're talking about it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0198par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0199par0057	Against him, the President's application must be against him.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0198par0058	Now, first of all, as Mr. Hamzacebi said earlier, there is no confirmation, but what I'm saying is, again, let the record show it's important.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0199par0059	No, no, that's what you said!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0198par0060	Now, I said, look, the 61st article is a rule of procedure, and it's a general arrangement. There's a special arrangement for when to make a promise, how to make a commitment, how to make it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, and how to do it, how to do it, and how to do it, in the Civil Code, and it is true, and it is true, as it is true, just as we are now, as we are based on the 63th article. We consider the 63rd article in advance, in the context of placing it behind, and the second one is promised in both favours and two opposites, according to its verdict. I agree with this, Mr. Hamzacebi: There is no correlation with the 61st article in any way. As for other matters, taking promises has been arranged in other substances. For example, the 60th article. The 61st article does not make any special, essential arrangements in any way. He does not make any special arrangements, meaning he does not give a say in any matter, does not give a speech, does not make any arrangements for the motion, or does not contain any similar provisions. Just sorting out what? It regulates the basics of the system, so it regulates the order and so on. Hence, the 61st article provides a special opportunity. You can't say that. Let's say that the second joke has accidentally entered into a rule of procedure, and let's interpret it for a moment, because when you look at the title, don't change the line and line of speech. It's all a matter of procedure. Let's say the second joke, even if it gives the right to what our friends have just interpreted, even if we think that it's not for me, but it's a moment, so let's face it, it can only be decided if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is in accordance with the rules set out in the Civil Charter. It's not an automatic mechanism, there's no automatic sentence anywhere. So when someone comes up and says, "I want more than 61," that promise is not made. In order for this statement to be delivered, if this comment is taken into account, even if it was a mistake, even if we interpret it that way, it would naturally have to have been decided according to the General Assembly. Because he's saying... he's so open-minded, he doesn't need a soul, he's open-mouthed, so there's no need to go into detail. I read the second joke of Article 61 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0200par0064	It's obvious, read the title.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0198par0065	If the General Assembly sees the need, it is in order to make a promise in favour of the discussion, against it, and above it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0201par0066	It's a negotiation.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0198par0067	If the General Assembly approves, if it is approved by the General Assembly, if it is approved. Isn't that right? It's obvious.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0201par0069	No, I don't think it's a...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0198par0070	You don't have to be an expert or a lawyer or anything. Hence, the 61st article does not provide a special opportunity. Even if it is interpreted like that, it is not possible to execute this verdict without the decision of the General Assembly being pushed ahead. I made a promise in favor of the President's attitude. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0202par0073	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0203par0075	Mr. President, it seems now that the AKP Group does not want us to discuss this proposal. I'm withdrawing my request on this matter, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0202par0076	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0204par0078	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll tell you where I am. In this article, the MP will speak, the government will speak, and the commission will speak. Another section of the article says: "The last word belongs to the MP."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0202par0079	Sure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0204par0080	Now, here's the speech on that, two deputies, one in favor, one in favor, one speaking against him, and then the government and the commission have taken their word, so the third MP gets a say. He has a say in the matter. Therefore, the right to say about him is born from there. For him, that's the interpretation of this substance. Not only according to the first joke, but when the commission and the government speak, the last word is the MP's.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0202par0081	You're right, Mr. Young, what you say in general is true. Now, the request for the matter has already been withdrawn. So I'm going to promise the friends who are taking the Republican People's Party's proposal, two in favor, two against ten minutes. In the first group, in favour of Ramadan Kerim Özkan, Burdur MP. Here you are, sir, ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0205par0089	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We've come to the real issue. We've submitted a parliamentary research motion to investigate problems with electricity used in our country. We need your vote, our power, our opposition, your vote. I'd like to take you to the greenhouses, the henhouses, the fish farms, the cold air tanks, the mushroom farms. Let's change the mood. There's trouble around here, there's production around here, there's work around here, there's sweat around here. But the biggest input of products produced here today is electricity, over 50 percent of electricity inputs. He pays for electricity; 1 percent of the money he pays is cut into the fund, 2 percent goes into the TRT, 18 percent goes into the VAT, but when he sells it, we can't give him back the 10 percent VAT discount. Our producers -- which I've spoken to Kumluca, for example, I've spoken to the beaches, I've spoken to my district, I've spoken to the Burdur region -- now, the greenhouse is not just on the beaches, it's in Burdur, it's in Burdur, it's in Kutahya, it's in Afyon, it's in Ayyon. The greenhouses used to be only on the beaches. There is a greenhouse in the town of Joseph, a thousand altitudes, in the town of Gölhisar, my Burdur. These people use it for lighting in the greenhouse. They use it in cold storage for summer cooling. They use it to regulate heat when it's too cold at a certain time. It's the same with mushroom breeding farms. They want these issues investigated, they want a solution found. Energy in our country has increased 50 per cent from 2007 to today, but we do not see this 50 per cent increase in sales of product prices. I just told you, our manufacturer's product is now 60 cents at the tomato site, and Ankara's four liras. Who's gonna make this meeting? The address of this meeting is the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Our municipalities, our co-ops, our manufacturers... we need to design these. Today, the potato is ten cents in the field, you come to the market for $1.50, onion in the same way, garlic in the same way, leeks in the same way. We need to find a solution to all of this, but I'm looking at it here, in order to change the agenda, we're going into a study in order to interrupt the opposition; change in the Civil Code. My dear friends are not interested in the citizen of the Civil Code. The citizen asks us: "What happened to the principle law when I left?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0206par0094	He's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0205par0095	The pensioners are gathering, I'm going to their coffee, brother, what happened to this policy? You promised power, opposition, why don't you solve this problem? The same way, the mazotta OTV...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0207par0096	If the House works, we work.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0205par0097	To get it started... look, this is how Congress gets blocked because you changed the agenda. The House was working well, why did the Civil Code... you were disturbed by the animals I brought out, the models here? My dear friends, I'm a veterinarian. Look, those were my graphics. Why do we feel uncomfortable about the cow being here on the stand, the sheep on the stand, the hair goat on the stand? (HPP) To me the sixty-five-year-old man, our 70-year-old farmers, your members, our members say: "Dear Özkan, Mr. Deputy, may the parents who gave birth to you rest in the light. You put this hair goat on that stand, and I was carrying that hair of a goat in my hat, and I was living with the smell of it. I saw him there, I was happy. My vote for you is lawful. How could you not let him see this? We've got the camel out here. Why did we put the camel on the stand? Camel wrestling, camel wrestling. Don't look at him as crooked, he likes the straight path, he's the truck of the past. Why are we uncomfortable with him? We're changing the Civil Code! (CHEERING) Camel wrestling, my friends. With his income and income, schools were built, mosques were built, bridges were built, caravansaray were built in the past. Why do we feel uneasy about this? There's an olive branch here. There's beets up here. Beets are our future. Why are we afraid of that? In the name of changing the Civil Code, we are off the agenda at work today, the Civil Charter! The citizen is asking me. I'm texting you before we talk; I'm taking it to your mayors, I'm taking it to your mayors, to our mayors, there's no distinction because we're Turkish lawmakers. We say, "Watch the talks, watch the debates." But here again, television starts at two o'clock, TV ends at seven, doesn't see the arguments. Let the citizen see the truth, the truth, and make his assessment. It's also about electricity, in my area, look, we have a Barrack Quarter in the center of Burdur, a village in the neighborhood. There are greenhouses in that neighborhood. Right now, they can't give water to those greenhouses because of their electricity debts. They provide national wealth, jobs, they don't come to the suburbs, they want to be satisfied in that village, in the land where they were born. What do they want from us? They say this is a configuration of electricity debt. There's a configuration if you bring in your credit card. There's a statement, but is there money to pay for that credit card? The man wrote on his tractor, on the gallery, and I saw: I have suffered a lot until I have received it, so guard it with your word. This tractor is now on sale at the gallery. Why? Electricity debt, bait debt, your kid's debt, he's dealing with it. In this regard, at the price of this input, this electricity needs to be discussed, my dear friends, the masoth needs to be discussed. We're bringing them in as a research motion. That's the real agenda, that's the employee's agenda, that's the farmer's agenda, that's the producer's agenda. We're supposed to be dealing with these agendas, but unfortunately, instead of dealing with that agenda, as I just said, we're using different methods. To pay off the electricity debts, you need an interest pardon, my dear friends. We've done the configuration, but don't erase the interest. 12 thousand liras are being accounted for in 800 lira debt. I, Burdur, have the central village of Lengüme, we have China, we have Sala, we have the Gravgas, we have the water being drilled in these villages. You've used electricity to each one of them. There's 600 liras, 700 lira debts, and since they're not paid in time, we've given the electricity, the pole, the energy, but we're borrowing it. A friend of mine just called from Bucak, Kavacık village, İsmail Yilmaz, says: "We -- we're in your regions -- we're draining the drinking water from the drilling, we're using energy when we're drilling, we've got transformers. Our transformer has a malfunction -- now TEDAS is privatised -- depends on the Village Services, but the Village Services don't have a construction site, they don't have a business. What are you gonna do? You're going to the private sector or you're going to invest $6 billion in subscriptions for business expenses. This money is not in my village. 60 digits, 70 digits, 70 households, couldn't pay for electricity, is asked for 6,000 lira as a operating fee for the maintenance of the transformer alone. In many villages of Asia Minor, we face this phenomenon in many villages of Burdur. Because in villages, the water is drained from the drilling, which requires energy. We need to make an adjustment here, a enhancement. For that to happen, the Clave needs to investigate these problems. That's what we're giving you. We're trying to figure this out, find the truth together, solve the problems of the citizen. Again, fungal businesses in our country... it's in Bursa, it's in Burdur, it's in Korkuli of Antalya. Korkeli district of Antalya, the capital of the fungus. But they say: "We evaluate the garbage, we evaluate the garbage, we evaluate the hay, we evaluate the fertilizer, we create an added value, but you get 18 percent VAT in compost. While we're doing this, we use electricity to produce this fungus, culture mushrooms. Electricity is too expensive. We use it as industry. We expect you to make a improvement in this regard. They cry out. We want to go through them, find out where they are, and we want to come up with a solution. He's a fungus that doesn't come easy to the table, he's got sweat in every bit of it. In the same way, we have apple cold storage in our area. The cold air tanks are now... there are queues in the cold air warehouses at the time of the day... but there are days when the apples don't pay, supply-toting balance breaks down, electrical problems enter, transport problems enter, apple problems enter, apples don't pay, safe drops down to $5, citizens don't want to pass past those cold storages. They need to be evaluated, investigated. Again, our fishermen... the fish isn't on its own, culture fish, they have businesses. He's the fish that comes to your table, and he's got the sea bass, he's got the different fish, he's got the culture, he's got the fish, he's got the fish, he's got the fish, he's got the fish, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, There's energy problems there, too, and that needs to be resolved. We need your support for this, and we need your support -- Mr. Energy Minister -- who was just here -- to ask for the removal of this 1% Energy Fund, the 2% TRT share, and the removal of 18 percent VAT percent of the electricity used in agriculture, and I respectfully salute your grand delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0208par0107	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Our second speaker is Mr. Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP, against you. Here you go, Mr. Tan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0209par0112	Mr. President, lawmakers, as much as I have made a commitment to the motion on this issue, I am not at all against it, but I believe in the necessity of a much broader and more thorough investigation into the matter. I'll give you my opinion on that. The unit price of electricity used today in agricultural irrigation has increased by 50% compared to 2007. The rate of increase has reached 58 per cent in agricultural cold storage, cultural fisheries and poultry facilities, greenhouses and livestock companies. On this hike, the agricultural irrigation subscriber group increased by 1.5 per cent in January 2009 and 9.6% in October. The unit price of electricity, which was 13.5 cents in 2007, was 22.53 cents in December 2010. These raises have made our farmers unable to produce. In addition to the hikes, the energy fund received by 1 per cent of electricity, 2 per cent of TRT, and 18 per cent VAT units raise costs. Our farmers and producers, who are paying their taxes in advance in VAT and STV, are in a very difficult situation today. Officials who can't get the VAT out of the goods they sell, like merchants, unfortunately collect it in advance from the manufacturers. According to TEDAŞ data, 3.4 per cent of Turkey's total electricity consumption and 1.4 per cent of all subscribers belong to our producers, the agricultural irrigation group. As it turns out from the data, our manufacturers do not hold a large share of subscribers or consumption, but the problems with electricity remain up-to-date. An 18 per cent VAT in electricity must be reduced to one per cent of electricity used in agriculture and not to receive a 2 per cent TRT share. Dear friends, the most important item of electricity used in agriculture is the matter of electricity being used to water it. This is a major wound to Turkey. What's the water used in agriculture? He has to say a few words on this first: As you know, it's used to drink underground water all over the world, and it's used to water above ground water, but unfortunately it's used to water underground waters in Turkey today. There are reasons for that. As part of the Southeast Anatolia Project, which has been going on for nearly 40 years today, the irrigation of the plains of Uruguay, Mardin, Diyarbakır, Batman have not been completed until now, unfortunately. Because these were not finished, farmers were forced to water the land of Mesopotamia, the world's most finite land in history, with their own means. And for that, underground wells have been opened. The opening of underground wells is not legal because underground waters -- as I have just said -- are used for drinking water all over the world -- but thousands of wells have been opened today in Kızıltepe, Viranşehir, Derek, Nusaybin, Diyarbakır and Batman. In the early years, these opening wells were watered at 20 meters, while the number was down to 400 to 500 metres today. So to speak, the ground, the underground, has been drained. Think of it as a sponge, put dozens of straws on it, and when you pull it, it becomes dry. This has also changed the balance of nature and climate in the region. Tens of streams and teas, as the people call them, are dry today. Of course, the first question is, why hasn't the GAP ever been finished? So despite all the resources, resources, and the fact that the Southeast Anatolia Project is not finished at every opportunity, unfortunately, remains a major problem. Today, 22 dams and 19 hydropower plants are 85 per cent finished, 86 per cent finished, but the finished channel ratio is still around 14 per cent. There are dams that have been watered for twenty years, but the waters that are still kept in these dams have not reached the plain, or the soil, or been transported. Of course, there's been some serious problems with the underground waters at this point. Midyat, Mardin's Kızıltepe (Kızıltepe), Mardin's drinking water must be obtained under certain conditions but must be brought in under very difficult conditions and much further distances. Dear friends, today the farmer is in a miserable state. In a land where normal cotton planting is made, a well can water about 100 acres of land. This well has cost and cost. As I've just highlighted, water from 20 meters 25 to 30 years ago is rising from 400 to 500 meters today. Wells have a serious cost, divers have a serious cost. And when the price of electricity comes, the farmer works for the government, so to speak. Especially this year, as cotton has fallen into a state of misery, if -- in a nail -- our farmer and our citizen are in a state of misery. In the plains of Mardin, Batman and Diyarbakir, there is a serious underlying water problem that we can describe as a disaster. Electric costs are high, so citizens have no choice but to do so. The citizen must be made comfortable with the use of electricity. Aside from that, today's blackouts in the area have devastated the citizen, farmer, manufacturer. Production drops by 40 per cent, as the Mardin Chamber of Agriculture has shown openly and clearly in its appeals, press conferences, and statements held this year by the Kızıltepe Agriculture Chamber. A few times a day, these lights are cut, the voltages are falling, and suddenly they're up again, and the burning plunger pumps are out of bounds. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? You can only say, as people who deal in imports, who deal in tenders, but please go out, look, and see how much money is paid for only burning dive pumps in the area every year, and ask the authorities. Dear friends, another black propaganda is that the region is not already paying for electricity, these are already using illegal electricity. I claim and recommend a parliamentary investigation. The amount of illegal electricity used in an entire area is not as much as the electricity used by three serious industrial businesses in Alexandria. I repeat, the financial cost of illegal electricity used in an entire area is not as much as the electricity used by three major industrial companies in the Alexandria area. There is also great black propaganda here, and it is also said that today, unfortunately, in a region of severe electricity shortages, our lines are built according to normal conditions, you use illegals, so you use too much, and that's how these malfunctions occur. Some 48 per cent of the total electricity that Turkey is currently using is derived from dams in the region. The region, which gives 48 per cent of Turkey's electricity, suffers from electricity shortages today. Even within the city, the average electricity is cut seven to eight times a day. Dear friends, there is a need for much more serious, much more tidy research to fix these situations. Six O.R.s and intensive care units at Mardin State Hospital have been shut down today due to the electricity that has been cut frequently. I'll draw your attention to these matters and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0210par0124	Thank you, Mr. Tan. The third speaker on the motion is Seyfettin Yilmaz, our Adana MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0128	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group in favour of the Parliament's investigation into electricity issues used in our country, to determine the producer's problems and solutions, to implement administrative and institutional legal regulations, as required by Articles 104, Article 105, and Article 105. I salute you all. Yes, including this Parliamentary investigation, including the Parliamentary Movement Party's recent investigation into the subcontractorship in Turkey, our nation is asking our pensioners, our farmers, to solve these problems by investigating them. But unfortunately, the ruling party is collaborating on the basis of the majority of fingers, at the point where the opposition rejects all proposals in favor of the nation. Yes, a little later comes an arrangement -- in the Civil Charter -- that tries to silence the issues of our nation in order to eliminate the agendas at which we can address our nation's problems. Yes, this is not the AKP's Assembly, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this is the Assembly of the People. We don't have a chance to keep the voices down around here. While people want to talk about these problems, the Prime Minister's statement is that we want a religious youth and a religious generation, as the members of the group have just expressed. Yes, you don't have to ask, he's been on the phone all morning, and our youth, our generation, has no problem with religion, and they don't need that kind of reason to teach or raise. Yes, this youth comes from Sheikh Edebali to Osman Gazi, Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror to the Law. I'm talking about Asim's generation. Yes, we come from such a generation. We come from a generation that turned dungeons into stone medrese. We are Turks as much as Mount God, Muslims as Mount Hira. You have no right to teach religion with this generation. Is there a civilizational alliance, inter-religious dialogue in your generation? We don't need it, and this youth doesn't need it. Religion is Islam. Religion is Islam, not dialogue between religions. I particularly beg that it be known this way. So, if you want to be a teenager, you can't create it: if you want to prostrate your forehead, your feet, your soul, your body, you don't have the chance to build that generation.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0212par0136	Come on!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0137	Yes, I'm making that very clear. You've been in power for ten years, ten years! Let's discuss the problems he's been having in his youth until the members of the group put them that way. Listen, don't play politics with Islam. Let's look into it, a youth who's been through marijuana, heroin up to elementary schools, and when we ask you to look into them, you're gonna say, "No."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0213par0138	I thought you said he had faith. He didn't have to.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0139	Yes, yes, with your ten-year-old education policies, cultural policies need to be well known where the Turkish nation has come to. In this country for forty-six years, a series of televisions are being watched for months, making a ruling legal officer look like a eunuch. Yeah, I'm gonna get to the point, and we're here to talk about the problems of agriculture, and I want to make that clear. Now, you want to get 2% of the TRT. You get two percent of the farmer who produces in agriculture, who works in the heat and in the cold with the sweat of his forehead. Do you want to buy this 2 per cent to be the voice of these cultural policies or yours to follow? Let's take away 2% of the watering in this agriculture. Yeah, you've been in power for ten years, making speeches, making statements like an opposition party. Turkey still uses illegal electricity, which has reached a percentage of what I don't know. Go after them. But he didn't pay his bill for a month. The poor person said, "You can't afford to cut off the electricity, cut off the water of the farmer who puts forth his labor in agriculture; it doesn't fit in his sense of justice.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0214par0142	How many percent missing fugitives?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0143	That's your job. If the Minister of Energy is here, let him explain what the missing fugitives are.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0214par0144	Give me the number, give me the number!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0145	Yes, my dear friend, you can say that. Are there any missing fugitives in your era or not? Can you get it from people who use illegal electricity?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0214par0146	What percentage is it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0147	Yeah, now I'm gonna get to the agricultural issues. The farmer doesn't know what to plant. Yeah, it's about my territory... I'm guessing the Minister of Agriculture has arrived.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0215par0149	Is there a Minister of Agriculture in the country?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0150	Yes, the Minister of Agriculture is here. Now, I've been interviewing all the parts of agriculture, all the parts of Çukurova, all the time. What's your status? Mr. Minister of Agriculture, here with the ruling party's MPs, with your mayor, with the NGOs close to you, we are opposition MPs, let's go together one day to this Çukurova. Let's see how the dikurova farmer is doing together.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0216par0151	We just got here. It's new.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0152	Yeah, well, when you come in and you're sitting in glass mansions, listening to people suck up to you, you'd think agriculture was in great shape. Come on, let's go! Let's go! Let's do some research, I'll get you a research motion. Will you give it to a motion to investigate agriculture, farmer's problems in Çukurova? The Minister of Agriculture is here, and you're making small talk! Come on, let's go. Say yes. Let's check it out. Let's talk to every citizen. Look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0216par0153	We're at 50 percent!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0154	Look, valuable lawmakers, you can't solve the problems of this nation by looking at your majority of votes, your majority of fingers, and you can't solve the problems of this farmer. The Dukurova region has the most fertile land in the world. There are two important rivers flowing through it, the Seyhan and Ceyhan rivers. Do you know how much of Çukurova is watered through the city, where there is so much water in the sea with its lateral streams, with so much water flowing through it? Do you know how much of it can be watered, my dear countrymen? Dear MPs, 41 per cent can still be watered, 41 per cent! Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what are you going to say before you do this irrigation work, before you solve the problems of the citizens? You've been in power for ten years.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0217par0156	Tell me what you've done!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0157	Sit down, you'll answer! The Minister is here to answer for you! Sit down, don't answer! Well, now, Mr. Prime Minister, he's saying, "Israel," and he's being defiant. Now, do you know how many millions of dollars of seed we receive from Israel? Yes, it is not in the face of Israel, but in the heart of it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, the most fertile land in the world is in Çurova. The most fertile lands in the world are in Çurova. We have an old university there, an agricultural faculty. Transfer the hippo here until we investigate this so we can solve the problem of the farmer of Çukurova. Let's build a high-tech seed production center there. Are you in? Are you in? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Yes, I will tell you that millions of seeds will not work by giving to Israel every year. Well, now, look, Mr. Secretary, you can't fool people with numbers, you can't fool people with numbers.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0218par0164	It's true, it's true.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0211par0165	I'm telling the truth. Shall we tell him? (*) In this chapter, non-Turkish words were expressed by the Minister. Look, in 2002, in Saimbeyli, in Pozantı, in Hamishı, in Darmur, in Aladağ, in Seke, in six pounds of cherries, one litre of diesel was $1.00, so do you know what the farmer is doing today? He can't get a kilo of diesel with 1 kilogram of cherries. Yeah, well, don't go out there and make politics out of it. Look, the cotton is finished in Çukurova. It's only in the old Greenwood movies. The industry based on cotton... has closed down 40 factories in your time of power, 40. Nearly 50,000 of our citizens lost their jobs in Adana. Now, the cotton's gone, it's turned into corn. Egypt... I just got off the phone with the corn producers, and they all say we've done some damage. If the Egyptian-based industry is closed, the unemployment rate in Adana, which is 20 per cent, will rise to 30 per cent. At the point of solving these, come, support these research. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's okay to put your hands up. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0219par0175	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you very much. The last speaker is Mr. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0220par0179	Dear President, I have received word against the group proposal of the Republican People's Party. On this occasion, I salute our coven. Dear lawmakers, the proposal is about researching problems with electricity used in agriculture. Actually, there's a lot of data to talk about, but I'd like to say a few words that answer a few questions on this stand, and that's: Agricultural irrigation subscribers have accumulated energy debts. That's true, but it's caused a lot of configuration from 96 to today, and I'm going to come back to 2011 -- this year, a major five-year instalment loans for agricultural irrigation subscribers who have waived the interest of their energy debt as part of Act 6111. So what's in this sense, what's that advantage, is that we're looking at a burden like 2.5 quadrillion to the debtors. In this framework, 44,000 subscribers from a total of 161,000 agricultural irrigation subscribers have been restructured. In fact, it means that from the amount of about 2.5 quadrillion, 155 trillion -- I'll tell you the exact number -- 155 million 955,000 collections. So we can see that the decision made by Law 6111 is also positive for the return of agricultural irrigation subscribers to the energy debt of our government. There's a lot to say in the name of agricultural development. There's a lot to be said for the decisions made in favor of our farmers. I'd like to give you a note and finish my sentences, which is that the OECD (OECD) Agricultural Report 2011 states that Turkey has made great progress in the last decade and has risen to the 7th place in terms of its agricultural product size in the world. We're not saying this, it's in the OECD data, and Turkey is in the 7th place in terms of its agricultural product size. I have stated that my opinion on the Republican People's Party Group proposal is against you. Because today, again, Republican People's General Assembly of Turkey's Interior Charter talks are being held. Therefore, I say that our opinion is against you, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0221par0187	Thank you, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0222par0190	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0221par0191	I will identify the names of our friends who have requested roll call, so please stand up, my friends. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Godkulu, Mr. Kart, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Akgöl, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Rooturk, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Young, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Demiröz. Congressmans, I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0223par0204	Mr. President, sir, a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party is an actional amendment of the Civil Code. Thus, until March 15th, an arrangement made for a month and a half with verbal questions is an actual violation of the Civil Code, a violation of the Civil Code; such an application cannot be processed in this regard. So there's no need to change the Civil Code. They take a year for the hours, and there is no need to change the Civil Law. Therefore, the proposal made in this regard is a command of the Parliament to be carried out according to the principles set out in the Civil Code, which cannot be done without changing the Civil Charter. Look, if you read the proposal regarding the Civil Charter, they remove our verbal questions, they remove our day of inspection, they change the hours of our work, they actually change the Internal Charter. In that sense, those who have proposed a amendment to the Civil Code are already changing the Civil Code because they know there are no applications for this proposal without a change in the Civil Code. This time, the group's decision to do so directly is a violation of the Civil Code, in effect a change of the Civil Code. Here's the number one item...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0221par0205	Mr. Vural, may I make you read the proposal? We haven't read the proposal yet, can I?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0223par0206	Yes, but, sir, you can't process this.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0221par0207	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0223par0208	So, sir, that's not a month and a half short, that's a direct violation of the core of the Civil Code. Therefore, since there is no formal motion, since the Civil Code provides the amendment, not with the group's proposal, but with a proper legal proposal. In that respect, you can't process it. How are you going to get it? Then why are they changing the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0224par0209	Mr. President, continue, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0225par0210	Mr. President, I had a law proposal...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0226par0211	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0227par0212	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0226par0213	Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0227par0214	In Article 54 of the Civil Code, it says what the date and time of the meeting is. The General Assembly says it can make a decision on this matter. Article 54 is clear and clear. Likewise, verbal questions, two days a week, and other days are reserved for audit days, but the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly is in charge of this issue.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0228par0215	Sir, the General Assembly has previously inspected Tuesdays...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0226par0216	Just a second... let him finish.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0228par0217	Sorry.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0229par0218	If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey accepts the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, an action in accordance with the Civil Code has been carried out. The General Assembly's working hours continue as we did earlier, as we have agreed with the Council of Counsellors, undersigned by all political party groups. The group proposal of the Justice and Development Party is not subject to anything contrary to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0226par0219	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0228par0220	It can't be taken, sir. It's removing control authority. It's removing control authority of the House. It is against the Constitution and the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0230par0221	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0226par0222	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0230par0223	On Tuesday...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0226par0224	If you'd like, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0231par0225	Mr. President, what are we talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0232par0226	Mr. President, read it, please. Let us know. Don't we have rights?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0226par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0233par0229	Mr. President, this week's Justice and Development Party Group brought its proposal to the General Assembly on Tuesday to determine the agenda of the General Assembly of Turkey; it was discussed, debated; despite the opposition parties' vote, it was adopted by majority votes; Tuesday. It's Thursday. The Justice and Development Party Group wants to discuss the agenda of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly until March 15th, with another proposal. What changed from Tuesday to Thursday? Nothing's changed. Only yesterday, Wednesday, the General Assembly has a position of opposition parties during talks on AKP's proposal to change the Civil Charter. The Republican People's Party, the People's Movement Party, the Peace and Democracy Party have brought up their natural reactions and criticism on this proposal to silence the opposition's right of speech. This is an extremely democratic response. It's his understanding that if you, if you raise your voice this high, if you try to block our offer of change so much, we'll punish you, too. Nothing's changed from Tuesday to Thursday. The proposal for a amendment to the Civil Code is on the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. After the meeting, the Civil Charter will go back to the proposed amendment talks, nothing changes, but there is an AKP understanding that can't tolerate opposition. What's interesting is that the AKP says in its proposal to change the Civil Code; its working hours are 1400-20. He says he's setting it up at 00, he's offering a change. As is known, the working hours in the existing Civil Code are 3:00-19. It is written at 00, but it can be stretched from time to time by the decisions of the Council of Counsellors or by the decisions of the General Assembly. Now, you've weighed, evaluated, measured, calculated, calculated, and put a clause in your proposal to change the Civil Code in your own way. You're saying the General Assembly is 2400-20. Have him work between 00 hours. We have no objection to that, we have no objection to working hours, but you are saying that in this group proposal that you have taken to the Council of Counsellors, which you have now brought to the General Assembly, we have proposed the amendment to the Interior Charter, but we will not comply with it until 15 Marta. It's a violation of a party that can't internalize democracy, and it's a violation of your esteemed Justice and Development Party MPs.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0234par0231	Mr. President can't accuse us of disrespect.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0233par0232	Your fingers are at the behest of the AKP group's vice presidents; he sees you, he looks at you, he treats you like an object, he treats the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0235par0233	Speak with respect!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0233par0234	To the attention of the General Assembly, this insincere, unintroducing, lack of common sense, lack of reason, this group proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0236par0235	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0237par0237	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0236par0238	I promised Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0237par0239	Mr. President, this AKP Group's proposal now ranks 156...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0236par0240	I promised Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Young, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0237par0241	But, sir, I've been up all morning.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0236par0242	I give you my word to the members of the group. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0237par0244	Okay.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0238par0245	Sit down!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0237par0246	You sit down, you. Sit there and gain weight.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0239par0247	Yes, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0240par0249	Mr. President, the EC PARTY Group submitted a motion on January 31st, which was adopted by majority votes. A day passed, and now they've brought in another motion, which determines a long process, a working period of up to 15 Martas. Now, this is an audit of the Constitution... which means the House has a legislature, an audit mission, and the audit is carried out by opposition parties. In order to perform this control function, there are provisions in the Civil Code. Now, there is an objection against the Constitution, which eliminates the right to control of the Constitution. This calls for a discussion of procedure. But I want to make another point. Look, February 2, 3, 4, 5, which is Friday, Saturday, Sunday, by the end of Monday, until the end of the Civil Charter. The Civil Code doesn't end in 24 hours, Mr. President. Since it won't be finished in 24 hours -- which we've been working since 1:00 p.m. -- the European Convention on Human Rights has a ban on labouring and forced labor, the 90th Amendment decree. So now they've brought in a motion for labor and forced labor, my friends. This ban on labour and forced labor now applies to AKP members as well. So Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday... now our constitutional control opportunities are being restricted here, and the European Convention on Human Rights -- over 90 -- are being violated. So the health of the House is being violated, the quality of the House's work is being violated. The motions between opposition and power are in violation of the process of healthy monitoring of talks and making quality legislation. Such a motion is not possible in both the Constitution and the above-national law and the Civil Code. First of all, we'd like to open up a legal debate about this. Because, really, if this motion passes through this House, the nerves are already in a spring state... and the tension needs to be softened a little bit. So it's a motion to stretch the motion. He's in a bow state. To stretch the nerves... and the nerves of his own members are like springs. It's very unfair to this House, where this nation's will lies, for all of us. I demand that this procedure debate be opened. I'd like word on the legal debate, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0239par0251	Thank you. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0241par0254	Mr. President, it's obvious what we're doing is in order. Because in the motions made by all political party groups, all political parties have expressed their views according to Article 63, since there is no consensus on the Council of Counsellors, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. Now that the Justice and Development Party Group proposal is being discussed, our political-party lawmakers will say they are either in favor or against it. Look, I've got an example. March 15, 2011. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Mehmet Ali Şahin, Deputy Justice and Development Party Party Chair Mustafa Elitaş, Nationalist Movement Party Deputy Chairman Oktay Vural, Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman Muharrem İnce, Party of Peace and Democracy Deputy Director Bengi Yıldız. On Tuesday (March 15th) and Wednesday (March 2011), there is no discussion of verbal questions and other audit issues, and the move of the agenda to the other jobs from the Commission with the draft and proposals. In this proposal, we certainly don't divide control over the proposal that we're going to discuss at the moment. If our friends are to read the proposal carefully, we propose that an hour of oral questions be discussed during all Tuesdays, until the 15th of March. As a matter of fact, in Article 49, the proposal of the Council of Ministers and the approval of the General Assembly can be set aside for each of the 6th and 7th chapters on a certain day of the week. On the other hand, the work hours are 15:00-19 according to Article 54 of the Civil Code. I would like to state that the group's proposal is in accordance with the Internal Charter, since the General Assembly has been given the opportunity to change these clocks while it is in accordance with the 100th Amendment. What the CHP Group has said and what our fellow members of the other group have said is against the Civil Code, and our group proposal is in accordance with the Civil Code, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0242par0261	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0243par0262	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0242par0263	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0244par0264	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President, by reading my name, has seen the change in the will there as equivalent to today's change. So, I have a request to say what that signature means, that it has nothing to do with today's offer.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0242par0265	Thank you. Dear friends, now, on the proposal...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0244par0267	Sir, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0245par0268	Mr. President, I have a request for the procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0244par0269	Mr. President, I've had an assessment of Mr. Elitas, which links today's proposal to an advisory committee that we've already signed.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0246par0270	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0244par0271	I have a request for my position on him. And yet, our claims to whether or not this process will be carried out have not yet been made clear. Please don't say anything.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0246par0272	No, so now you want to say it again?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0244par0273	I mean, I don't...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0247par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0246par0275	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0247par0276	Mr. President, I have a legal proposal on this matter. So I have a law proposal on the amendment to the Civil Code, and five AKP Group proposals. The Commission combined these proposals, but the subcommittee report states: "In accordance with the regulation of the 2/80 original proposal here, the opportunity to submit the proposal with one signature after the negotiations have begun. It has been approved by the Commission of Articles with a majority of votes. Now, has my offer been accepted or rejected? After that, the commission says: "So, sir, the framework for reading and processing amendment proposals according to the order of contradictions has been adopted concerning verbal questions." Now, did the commission reject my proposal or accept it? If he refused...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0281	One second... one second...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0247par0282	Sir, if you don't understand... Did he refuse or accept?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0284	One second... one second, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0247par0285	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0286	Mr. Young, this is the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0247par0287	No, but they're bringing in this report today. This report is not available for discussion because it says in Article 80 of the Civil Code: If an offer is rejected, the grounds for rejection are written, income is discussed in the General Assembly. Now, they got my offer, but the commission report said neither rejected nor accepted. Therefore, if the commission's report is not to be taken into custody, the commission will bring a healthy report on this, and my proposal, according to Article 80, is rejected in the General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0289	Mr. Young, I understand. Hold on a second. Now, this is an event that you've suggested earlier during the discussion of the proposal; you can go forward at that point.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0247par0291	But he's being interviewed today, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0292	We are currently discussing a group proposal brought in according to Article 19. This has nothing to do with your objection to that law.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0247par0293	Mr. President, here's the thing...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0294	Now, when we start seeing each other, push that objection forward.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0247par0295	No, here's the thing: The AKP Group is recommending the meeting of this proposal report today. I'm saying this report isn't a report that's to be discussed.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0296	Sir, but now, the group proposal hasn't even been read yet. I mean, the report is in order, so we can't discuss an irregular report today. Please, I mean, the group proposal hasn't been read yet. Please... please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0249par0299	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0300	Mr. Tanal, so have you... we've heard from your group president.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0250par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0248par0302	Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0250par0303	Mr. President, Mr. Kamer Young is saying something very right. The point is, Mr. Kamer Young has proposed a change in the Civil Code of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Constitutional Commission has also raised Mr. Kamer's proposal to change the Civil Charter when the AKP's group's deputy presidents put it on the agenda. However, the Constitutional Commission's report on January 30, 2012 does not include any sentence concerning the rejection or acceptance of Mr. Kamer's proposal. The 80th article of our Civil Charter is clear. Article 80 says: "If a bill or the original commission of a proposal is rejected, and it is adopted in the report -- in the proper report -- the bill or proposal is rejected. There is no such arbitraryness. If he had been rejected, Mr. Cameroon's youth would have no objection. In the report, Mr. Kamer, the Young One's offer has not been accepted, it has been rejected. There is no explanation. The entire Constitutional Commission has ruled out Article 80 of the Civil Code. Rightfully, Mr. Kamer Young says: "What did I offer? What I'm proposing is...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0251par0304	Mr. President, let's have a formal discussion. Let's see how it goes, sir!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0250par0305	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0252par0306	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0250par0307	I'll give you my last word, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0252par0308	Yes, sir, I beg you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0250par0309	It's me...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0252par0310	You did, Mr. Hamzacebi, that...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0250par0311	I'll give you my last word, sir, one second.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0252par0312	But how long are you going to talk?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0253par0313	Patience, sir, patience.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0250par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0252par0315	But, if you'll excuse me, it should take a while.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0253par0316	Be patient and let the preacher say his word.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0250par0317	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0252par0318	Look, you said it. And I say, the commission sits down, and the law starts to negotiate, and then...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0254par0319	Mr. President, it's irrelevant.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0255par0320	What's there to discuss about a report that doesn't exist?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0252par0321	If you're having a discussion, let's talk about it. Not like this.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0256par0322	Mr. President, the decision to discuss that report will be made.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0257par0323	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0258par0324	How do you get it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0256par0325	How are you going to get it now? You'll decide to see him?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0259par0326	Sir, you can sit down during the interview, it's debatable.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0258par0327	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0259par0328	It's not just for him.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0258par0329	There is no place for an audience.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0259par0330	If you'll excuse me, sir, if you'll excuse me. Now, what I understand is that Article 54 and Article 49...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0260par0332	Mr. President, I'm not finished, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0259par0333	Finish it, sir. Please tell your men to sit down.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0260par0335	They're not men, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0259par0336	Congressman, whatever. You can't all talk.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0261par0337	What man? Whose man are you? Take that back.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0262par0338	We're not men, we're MPs.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0259par0339	What kind of man is he, dear? What about the man, the man?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0263par0341	You have the man.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0264par0342	Take back your sentence.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0259par0344	It's not a promise to take back.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0265par0345	Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0264par0346	Mr. President, please take that back.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0259par0347	Sir? I couldn't understand what I was saying. It's because I can't name them all separately.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0266par0348	What's a man?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0264par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0266par0350	You have him, we don't. What do you mean, you're swearing? I invite you to behave.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0267par0351	I forbid you to speak like this, please sit down.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0268par0352	Mr. President, would you please read our group proposal?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0269par0353	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0270par0354	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0271par0355	Please, tell your deputies to sit down so we can listen to you, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0272par0356	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0273par0357	You can't call me a man!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0271par0358	You know what?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0274par0359	Mr. President, a congressman can't go on the stand like this.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0273par0360	You can't call me a man, Mayor. You can't call me a man, you can call me a member of the nation.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0271par0361	Yeah, isn't he the congressman?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0273par0362	Call me the MP.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0271par0363	Okay, I'll call you the deputy.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0275par0364	Mr. President, lawmakers are required to honor the Council of Parliament.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0273par0365	I've never been anybody's man.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0271par0366	No, I didn't mean it like that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0273par0367	Then you'll apologize.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0271par0368	Okay, I'm sorry. You're a congressman. Okay, bye. I didn't say it as anyone's man. I meant your friends, that's all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0276par0369	Does it suit you?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0273par0370	I've never been anybody's man. He's gonna apologize like a man.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0271par0371	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0277par0372	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0278par0373	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0271par0374	Mr. Hamzacebi, please. So please tell me what the end is, and I'll act on it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0278par0375	Mr. President, number one...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0279par0376	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0278par0377	Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0279par0378	Mr. President, the content of our group proposal has begun to be discussed.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0278par0379	Mr. Elitaş, would you please tell your congressman?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0279par0380	It's not an argument of procedure at the moment, but the content of our group proposal is being discussed. Please read our proposal and let us continue our work.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0280par0381	That's right.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0278par0382	Are you instructing Mr. President from there, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0281par0383	Mr. Hamzacebi, you don't see who's walking to the stand here, you say "talimate."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0282par0384	He's walking to the stand, and you're not telling him anything.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0283par0385	I'll tell Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0284par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0283par0387	Mr. Hamzacebi, please. Why don't you sit down and I'll turn on the mic? It's not clear.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0284par0388	No, no, I'll tell you from here, since I'm standing up. Mr. President, look, how long are you going to talk to me when I'm talking?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0283par0390	But there's got to be a limit, right, Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0284par0391	Wait a second... so are those sentences from the Constitutional Commission yours, sir? ...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0285par0392	But we're running out of patience. So you're gonna end this somewhere.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0286par0393	Are we going to talk about it according to your patience?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0284par0394	These talks should be limited, everyone should speak in five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0287par0395	Sir, please tell me what it is and let's move on. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0284par0397	Mr. President, I don't see the need for a member of the presidential office to be insufferable to give a two or three-minute speech to a group of vice presidents and account for 30 seconds and one minute, and there should be a limit to talking.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0287par0398	I mean, mercy! Mercy!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0288par0399	You've been talking for ten minutes!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0284par0400	Secondly, I'd like to invite you to apologize for your earlier statement. I don't have men here, I have MPs elected by the people's votes. I'm inviting you to apologize.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0289par0401	Don't make us look like another group.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0290par0402	There are no men here.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0291par0403	Sir, look, I'm sorry... I meant your friends. I'm sorry, if you mean something else.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0292par0404	We're proud to be people's men.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0293par0405	I can see it, I can see it!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0294par0406	Please, make it clear that you're sorry.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0295par0407	I didn't mean it in any other way, Mr. Hamzacebi. I should have said your friends.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0294par0408	I didn't hear it. Did you apologize?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0295par0409	Okay, I'm sorry. I didn't say that. I don't mean anything else. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0294par0411	I'm going back to the point. I didn't hear your apology, but...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0295par0413	Sir?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0294par0414	I didn't hear the noise. Did you take it back or did you correct it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0295par0415	Everyone heard it. Maybe I've said it three times. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0296par0416	Mr. President, are we taking a test here? What do they do with what? Sir, move to the agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0294par0417	I really couldn't hear.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0296par0418	Mr. President, proceed, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0294par0419	Why are you interfering?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0420	Mr. Hamzacebi, I repeat. I meant your friends. If it means anything else, I apologize. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0294par0422	Okay, fine. Let's get down to brass tacks...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0424	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0294par0425	I was going to say one more sentence about Mr. Kamer Young, and you wouldn't let me, and they were born, look. So if you'd let me say a sentence, you wouldn't have said anything, and you wouldn't have lost that time. Mr. Kamer Young says: According to Article 80, what is my proposal for the law? • The AKP group proposal to discuss a Constitutional Commission that does not reveal what it is cannot be discussed. That's the point, sir. I mean, if you insist, I'll open up a procedural debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0427	Okay. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0298par0428	We want a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0429	Sir, my personal assessment as the Presidential Court is that the implementation of Article 54 and 49 can be replaced by group proposals of the Parliament's working hours and days.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0299par0430	No. We're discussing Mr. Kamer Young's proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0431	Now, there's a group proposal. If -- if you want to do this app -- if you want to open up a discussion of procedure, I'll open up a discussion of procedure. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0300par0433	Mr. President, just a minute... Mr. President, first you must decide on a false reference to me by Mr. Elitas. I've already made a request on this one. You'll have to do a procedure on this request first.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0435	You didn't just ask for the word, now you want it? Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0300par0437	I didn't mean to. I guess you didn't hear me.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0438	I heard you loud and clear. I didn't want to. You said I didn't want to. I promised someone else, but here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0300par0439	Now, Mr. President says: "You didn't want to." Now I'm calling you a challenge. Ask for the transcripts. Whether I want it or not, I want it to come out there.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0440	Yes, sir. You have my word. Here you go. Can I do something else? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0301par0444	Did I want to?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0445	Yes, you did. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0301par0447	Hah! Hah!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0448	With all that noise, I guess I didn't hear it either. [Applause from MHP rows, applause from AK PARTY rows (!) Oh, man!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0301par0450	You drink more water.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0451	So do you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0301par0452	We don't have the right to drink water. You're taking the teas there.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0297par0453	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0301par0455	Mr. President, before that, he actually gave a good example. Even an opposition party demonstrates how you audit Tuesday when there is an urgent matter to discuss in parliament, limiting verbal questions with your own will and demand. Tuesday and Wednesday. Must not know how to count, Mustafa Elitaş? He's a merchant, though. He doesn't know how to count. Now, how many Tuesdays are there, how many Wednesdays? So it's a temporary decision about a Tuesday and a Wednesday, which we agreed on, that today, up to 15 Martas, it's consolidating with a will that actually eliminates control authority, so I'll give it a go. In this regard, this will, today's will, I beg of you, according to the Constitution, what day is it that we can predict our parliamentary research proposals and general discussion proposals? Give me that opportunity. Not until 15 Marta. You're actually eliminating our control authority. How can you make such a decision?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0302par0458	It is against the Civil Code to carry out such a thing.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0301par0459	According to the Constitution, my rights of control are defined according to 98, according to the Constitution: the way the parliamentary research and general discussion proposals are given, the way they are answered with its content and its scope, and the methods of discussion and research are organised by the Assembly's Office. You are setting the decision not to discuss it, and it regulates this discussion. In this regard, this direct truth is also contrary to the Constitution, and its control and sovereignty is actually failing. In that respect, I'd like you to consider it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0303par0460	Thank you, sir. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll have this motion read.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0304par0462	Mr. President, we've requested a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0305par0463	Mayor, we have a request for a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0303par0464	And then I'm gonna open up the procedural debate. It's my opinion that the MPs should hear this motion. Here, excuse me, okay.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0306par0466	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, it's very short, I'd like to make one thing clear.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0303par0467	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0306par0469	Thank you, Mr. President. We know how to count, we know what we're writing. Look, I'll give you another example: On January 4, 2012, with the signature of Mr. Ahmet Aydın, deputy leader of the Justice and Development Party, I read an AK PARTI group proposal adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: on all Tuesdays from January 10th to February 7th, we discussed verbal questions and other audit jobs without discussing verbal questions and other audits. The decision by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on January 4, 2012 -- a month before that -- continued the same way.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0307par0472	It's beautiful, the actual Civil Code violation!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0306par0473	As a matter of fact, in our group proposal, we mean the same thing. Starting today, we have a decision to discuss verbal questions on all Tuesdays until the 13th of March. We would like to present this decision with your appreciation, sir, for voting for the esteemed members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. That's the spirit.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0307par0474	Mr. President, then he admits that they've practically destroyed the audit days.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0308par0475	Mr. Vural, if you'll excuse me, I'll have this read.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0307par0476	He's confessing!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0309par0477	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0308par0478	One moment, sir, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0309par0479	That's the problem. What's the matter? The problem is the AKP Group is making an exception, given by the Interior Charter. The Civil Code presented this as an exception to urgent matters, given the opportunity, an exception. That makes the exception the main thing. All the motions he has read are proof, proof, proof that Mr. Elitas has made the opportunity that Mr. Elitas read, all the things that he has approved, all the things that are based on the majority, the things that change the Parliament's work, the things that the Civil Code has made as an exception. That's where the trouble comes from.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit03spe0308par0480	Okay, thank you. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna take a half-hour off on the procedural debate and so on and so forth. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0308par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, earlier, our friends had a procedural debate in Article 54, before the motion was read. If you'd like, I'll have the motion read first, and then I'll open a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0310par0003	Mr. President, the claim, sir, is that you will discuss a group proposal that proposes that a report be taken into the Parliament's agenda of a non-responsible, commission report, a non-controversial issue.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0308par0004	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0310par0005	First, the reason he's arguing is because this report can't be brought up here. If you read it, we'll be in touch. First you discuss it this way, then you discuss the matter.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0308par0006	No, and I thought, frankly, the House still hasn't learned what this motion is. It's readable, and I'll open the discussion of the procedure right behind him.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0310par0007	Mr. President, the group proposal has been distributed, we've read it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0311par0008	But the other members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are unaware, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0310par0009	When you read it, the Civil Code has been offered to raise and discuss the proposal of the law.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0311par0010	It's already on the agenda, Mr. President. It's on the top of the agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0312par0011	Mr. President, it's already on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0310par0012	Our friends also claim that this job, this law proposal, this commission, is not properly discussed, the report is not properly presented, the internal charter has a demand that the commission be withdrawn according to its ruling, and that the report be properly presented. There was an argument about this demand. There was a request for a formal discussion to discuss the matter. Thus, if you read the group proposal directly, you would already be negotiating, and I don't think we should start negotiating in that sense. Because it is not in accordance with the Civil Code to discuss the agenda of a law proposal that has been discussed.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0313par0013	It's already on the agenda, Your Honor.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0312par0014	He's on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0310par0015	Oh, I get it. I mean, it's on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0314par0016	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0315par0017	An offer on the agenda. Over.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0310par0018	It's on the agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0314par0019	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0315par0020	Yeah. Yes, Mr. Elistash.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0314par0022	Mr. Şandir, in their statements... look, we discussed the group proposals of three political parties. Without the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, you'd be on the agenda. There's an offer on the top of the agenda for Civil Code Change 156 rows. You're going to call this discussion directly into the open without further ado. In fact, while our esteemed congresswoman friends, group speakers, are already considering the EK PARTI group proposal...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0316par0023	We didn't evaluate that part.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0314par0024	...they're going to make an assessment of this when they're making speeches and arguments against each other. Because right now it's a matter of procedure that's already at the top of the agenda. Before that comes up, it's only about working hours at the top of the agenda, and what we're going to do on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, when the bill and proposals are brought forward at the end of the agenda. As a matter of fact, there's nothing in our group proposal about that, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0317par0025	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0318par0027	Mr. President, we had a request before the hearing was closed.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0317par0028	Sure, go ahead, take your seat.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0318par0029	We said there should be a discussion about the group proposal of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0317par0030	You have an offer for a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0318par0031	I want your word on that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0317par0032	All right. Now, they're demanding a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0318par0034	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0319par0035	Lehte...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0320par0036	Lehte...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0321par0037	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0322par0038	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0321par0039	No, we've already requested a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0322par0040	All right, sir, all together, Mr. Kaplan has a request.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0321par0041	No, the demand is ours. Mr. Hasip Kaplan's request is a separate request, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0323par0042	No, we requested it first.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0321par0043	You're going to separate our demands...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0323par0044	Let's look at the records, we did it first.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0321par0045	...you will separate the request of Mr. Kaplan. We requested a formal discussion in the last session.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0324par0046	Mr. President, there's no need to argue about one thing in a few ways.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0321par0047	No, sir, not at all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0325par0048	Sir, let's do this: let's get the lawmakers up, have a little bit of a discussion, Mr. President, and we'll discuss it quietly until morning.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0326par0049	Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, please remind me of what your little argument was about.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0321par0050	Our legal debate, Mr. Kamer, during the negotiations with the Constitutional Commission on the proposal of Young People to change the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0327par0051	About the report...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0328par0052	It's the same thing, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0321par0053	...as a result of the evaluations, the report does not include any sentence concerning the acceptance or rejection of the offer of Mr. Young. A report that does not include this sentence, which the Constitutional Commission does not declare its opinion, cannot be discussed in the General Assembly. The Justice and Development Party group proposal for this report to be discussed is impossible to discuss. If you insist on this, we've requested a formal discussion. That's what we want. If Mr. Hasip Kaplan's request is on the same subject, it may be on a different subject, it requires a separate procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0329par0054	Okay, thank you. Mr. Kaplan, is it the same with you?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0330par0056	My request is: As the EC PARTI group motion has been ruled out against the Constitution, according to the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitution of the United States of Turkey, according to Article 4/7, the labour and forced labor in parliament...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0329par0057	I get it. Now...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0330par0058	There's a no-work policy. Parliament has signed this contract, which is a ban on labor, and now they're forcing it on all lawmakers and their own deputies. We'd like this to be a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0329par0059	I get it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0331par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0329par0061	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0331par0062	The AK PARTY group proposal you're about to read...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0332par0063	How do you know? You're putting up a mortgage on the president's will.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0331par0064	... They will express their views on the value of lawmakers. In this framework, the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will vote under the opinion of lawmakers, along with you voting. Anyway, this job is about procedure. According to Article 63, this meeting is a matter of procedure, sir, and it is a matter of procedure. In that sense, there's no need to open up a discussion of procedure again.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0333par0065	I get it. Now, valued lawmakers, according to Article 54, have a group proposal. I'd like to get this group proposal read first, and then we'll have a discussion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 02,02,2012 meeting on Thursday (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of Interior. AK PARTY Group Deputy President Besides weekdays, 3, 4, 5 and 6 February 2012 Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays at 14 p.m. Meeting at 00, the discussion of jobs in the "Law and Proposals and Other Jobs From Commissions" part of these mergers; 14, 21, 28 February 2012 and 6, 6 on Tuesday (March 13, 2012) were to discuss oral questions for an hour, and other audit issues were not discussed, and the agenda was to discuss the legislation and proposals and other jobs from the commissions. 15, 22, 29 February 2012, 7, March 14, 2012, Wednesday's uninterviewed oral questions, On Thursday (February 2nd 2012) until the completion of talks on Thursday (now) on the December 156th Amendment to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Institution; Until Friday, February 3, 2012, the meeting of the 100th Bill of the Bill of Law was completed; On Saturday, February 4, 2012, until the completion of the talks of Bill 119, February 5, 2012, in Sunday's merger until the completion of talks on Bill 98, February 6, 2012, in Monday's merger until the meeting of the Law Proposal No. 136; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. Continuing studies until the completion of daily programs if daily programs cannot be completed at 00; 14, 21, 28 February 2012 to 6, March 13, 2012 on Tuesday, between 3:00 and 8:00 p.m. 15, 16, 22, 23, 29, 2012, 01, 07, 08, 14, 15 March 2012, and Thursday's mergers were suggested that the work be continued between 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. Congressmans, you have heard the motion. I promise four people in favor of the group motion and against it. First speaker...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0334par0092	Mr. President, you said you'd open the debate after you've read the motion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0335par0093	It's against the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0336par0094	The way we're arguing right now, we're already doing it according to 63.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0334par0095	Sir...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0337par0096	Just a minute, sir...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0334par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0337par0098	Yes, I'm listening.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0334par0099	Mr. President, I'd like to read the motion...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0337par0100	You want a formal debate on him, don't you?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0334par0101	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0337par0102	Okay.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0338par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0337par0104	Wait a second... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0338par0106	Mr. President, what we're doing now is based on Article 63 of the Civil Code. Article 63 says don't talk about the law. Don't talk about the procedure. It's about the motion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0339par0107	Mr. President, it's not ours.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0338par0108	We're considering the issue of the 63rd Amendment procedure, which is whether or not we should discuss the issue in order of the agenda, which is the way we argue, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0340par0109	You want to speak on the basis of a substance you want to change.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0341par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0342par0111	We say it can't be seen.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0343par0112	Our fellow congressmen will present their views here. You'll have to vote on this procedure as well.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0344par0113	The vote cannot be submitted, Mr. President, against Article 171.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0342par0114	You can't go in unless you've exhausted the procedure, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0344par0115	That's not something to vote for!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0345par0116	Now, the groups demand a formal debate...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0346par0117	Sir, that's the way it is...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0345par0118	...and you say it's unnecessary. Now, in that case, if you'll excuse me, let's have a two-minute discussion of procedure with the group's vice presidents from all groups.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0347par0120	Two minutes is less, five is better.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0348par0121	No way!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0345par0122	That's our usual practice, please, gentlemen, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0349par0123	No way!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0345par0124	Yes, who wants to go first? Mr. Hamzacebi, from here... you can come here. Yes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0350par0127	No, no, not for two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0351par0128	Not for two minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0352par0129	Sir, you'll give it to those who want to discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0353par0130	Mr. President, now, we've taken your word for it. You said, "I'll read the proposal and then I'll open up the discussion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0354par0131	Mr. President, in favor of...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0353par0132	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0355par0133	Okay, here we go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I'm starting a formal discussion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0353par0135	But wait a second, you're a...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0356par0136	Mr. President, I have a request in favor of your position.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0357par0137	There are two demands.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0358par0138	Okay, I'm gonna open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0357par0139	Against...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0359par0140	So you're starting a procedural debate at the request of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0358par0141	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0360par0142	In favor of your attitude, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0361par0143	Lehte...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0362par0144	Mr. Kamer Young will speak against you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0363par0145	Two in favor of our attitude... Who wants words against you?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0362par0147	Against Mr. Kamer Young.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0363par0148	Mr. Kamer Young...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0364par0149	Canikli and Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0365par0150	We already said it was against us.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0363par0151	Against you?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0365par0152	We've been saying it's against him all along.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0363par0153	Mr. Kaplan is against you, too.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0366par0154	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0367par0155	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0363par0156	Canikli and Elitaş in Poland. Now, against Mr. Kamer Young, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kamer, in two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0368par0162	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... Now, Mr. President, the Constitutional Commission has filed a report. I have a proposal in this report, too. In Article 87 of the Civil Code, according to the current ruling there, Turkey does not submit a single parliamentary motion after it has started negotiations in the Grand National Assembly, giving 5 people. What I'm saying is that when we have independent lawmakers -- I was independent last semester, I couldn't make a motion -- let's get that five-person signature off, let's get it down to one signature. On the other hand, the AKP's five members of the group, the voice of the opposition in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, lowering their speech, cutting down on the commissions, locking the door of parliament. Anyway, we'll tell him what's going on. These two, with my proposal, the AKP group's deputy president's proposal has been merged into the Constitutional Commission. There's a notice in the subcommittee report brought by the Constitutional Commission, which says -- I'm not reading all of it -- the subcommittee in the subcommittee says that in accordance with the regulation here (2/80) of the original proposal, the opportunity to submit the motion with one signature after the negotiations have begun. By our Article Commission, it has been approved by the majority of votes. So he's been accepted? But then he came to the subcommittee, and there's no sentence on the subcommittee about my offer. Thus, according to Article 80 of the Civil Code, the commission may reject the proposals of the law, but this decision of the commission will come to the General Assembly, and there will be a general discussion on the bill -- on this one -- will be opened at the end of the general meeting, and if the decision of the commission's rejection is seen, the law will be rejected, but it will be sent back to the commission. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So this report needs to indicate that my offer was accepted or rejected, and the report is incomplete.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0369par0168	You can't see him because there's a missing report.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0368par0169	So let's get the commission to take it back, get a new report, bring it in, negotiate accordingly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0370par0171	Thank you, Mr. Young. Now, in favor of our attitude, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0371par0175	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. In fact, Mr. President, the 63rd Article of our Civil Code states clearly and clearly what the discussion of the procedure is expressed. It's a process assessment of the re-enactment of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's agenda on whether or not to discuss a topic on the agenda should be discussed or a proposal to be placed first on the agenda. At the moment, this debate on the objection made by the Republican People's Party's Deputy Chairman in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is actually a procedure debate that should be taken within the framework of the EC PARTI Group's proposal. Now as the AK PARTY Group, we propose to change the working and working hours, the working hours, the issues on the agenda. According to Article 19, the demands of political party groups within the Council of Counsellors. What's the nature of the conversation? We're doing it under Article 63. What we want is to bring up a subject that is already on the agenda, which we all refer to as the red agenda. On the other hand, if the subcommittee report and the Constitutional Commission report is well read and vetted -- our other friends, who have given themselves to the commission and are very carefully concerned -- were aware that the original commission was based on the subcommittee text, it was not taken into account here.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0372par0180	Let him write that up, dear.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0371par0181	As a matter of fact, this matter has been expressed in the subcommittee report.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0372par0182	No, sir, it hasn't.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0371par0183	In that sense, the reports of the Constitutional Commission, the subcommittee and the main commission are correct. There are no provisions to object to. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0373par0186	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0374par0187	Mr. President, he's not telling the truth!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0373par0188	Now, to be contrary, Mr. Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0375par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Friends, this motion from the EC PARTY cannot be discussed. To discuss this, it is cruel, it is unjust, it is unlawful, it is unjust to all of you, it is the will of the assembly, the will of the nation. If you personally did this to me as the Hasip Kaplan, maybe I'd put up with it, but I represent the will of the people. You are violating the Constitution, removing control. Didn't this Parliament take out international contracts, that Angaria is forbidden. Didn't he say that it is forbidden to operate by force? Didn't he say that slavery is forbidden? A day ago, you filed a motion, and then a day later, you change it again, but Saturday, Sunday, Monday, all the way to the end. That's 18 articles of the Civil Code, times 5 of the motions, 70 of the motions. Twenty-four hours is not enough for the end of the Civil Code, my friends. Now, look, what do you call these situations? So it's not an unspoken, unhealthy, quality of legislation. What do they say in these situations? Let's go through the phrases: a great insensitivity and an understanding that the majority and the fingers can do anything. It's been said in the past. ▪ Fast living is dangerous living. It has been said in the past.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0376par0194	It'll be like a roller coaster!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0375par0195	The non-privileged rules. It's been said. The law is said to be dress-up, dress-up persecution. Friends, it's a voting machine. It's been called Parliament, it's been called bureaucratic law. And I'll tell you something much more important if we tell them to lift it, they'll take it down, they'll take it down, they'll take it down? They don't need to know anything. It's an objection to the finger account. For my own sake, I can't tolerate such a disgrace, such a disgrace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is all very wrong. Who said that? The AK PARTY people told me how quickly you forgot your words, my friends. One of the AK PARTY members is the President of the Justice Commission for Medicine and one is Mr. Bulent Arinc.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0377par0199	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In his favor, Mr. Nurettin Canikli Giresun MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0378par0203	Remember, you're speaking because of the 19th article you're trying to remove.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, when the two offers meet in the same direction at the commission...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0380par0206	Not in the same direction, but in different ways.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0207	In the same context, as an example of the same subject, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0380par0208	That's different, that's different.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0209	Listen, please. When it's merged, there's no more proposals, no more bills.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0380par0211	No, okay?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0212	The two of them together... because look, what's the expression? A statement is an expression of unification. After this merger, the offer is one offer. There is no more this offer, this offer. So in the event of rejection, in the event of total rejection, what you say comes into play. There's a change here. Look, it's very important. Technically speaking. It's the renovation that's been done here, which is the unification of the subcommittee, which is the only offer that's been made, it's been renovated, it's been modified.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0380par0213	You haven't changed.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0214	Therefore, the rejection of this must be completely rejected in order for what you say to happen. Look at it this way: Imagine that an offer has been made, or the bill, which is not part of the merger. Does that change the subcommittee? He'll stop by. So could this time, in this case, be a rejection of this substance, a rejection of this substance? Or is it called a disability, which is not mentioned here? Uncalled for.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0381par0215	There's something wrong with the report, you're pushing it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0216	It's not called that. All this kind of legislature work is being realized in the frame I told you about.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0381par0217	There's something missing from this report.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0218	But the merger is at stake here, and the offer that Mr. Youth has given us is no longer a separate offer, but a unified offer. So in the subcommittee, the content of the negotiations is also a single proposal, which will be conducted and carried out.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0381par0219	There's a flaw in this, let the Constitutional Commission accept it and accept it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0220	There are only some renovations, some changes. They also mention the names of the bidders in both the subcommittee report and the original commission report...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0381par0222	Mr. Canikli, it's not the end of the world. We'll see each other again, it's not the end of the world, so don't push it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0379par0223	...any setbacks, there's no mistake. The president's attitude is correct. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0382par0226	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0383par0228	He's wrong. If we accept that, we can't make any legal proposals. He brings in commissions, 20 offers, he combines the bill, he passes them all. Then my offer is gone.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0384par0229	That's the way it is.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0383par0230	They say the wrong thing about him.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0385par0231	Mr. President, he's already expressed his views, what else is he talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0383par0232	My offer may be a mutual offer, but there has to be a reason in the Commission report on my proposal. Read Article 80.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0385par0233	There is, there is, there is motive, there is all of it if you read it well. All the reasons are written down.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0383par0234	Is that possible, sir? Then there's no point in offering the MPs.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0386par0235	Thank you very much, Mr. Young. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this concludes our discussion of the procedure. In any case, I don't think the interview we're having, or rather, it's against the rules. (CHP and MHP rows) So the offer I'm going to promise you in favor and against. In his favor, Nurdan Şanlı, Ankara. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, sir. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0387par0245	Mr. President, I have made a pledge as the AK PARTY Group in favour of the motion that we have made regarding the working days, agendas of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the restructuring of the working hours. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0388par0246	There are some very important matters on the agenda that we need to discuss, if you'd like to end them!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0387par0247	Dear MPs, as our Deputy Group President has just announced, our group proposal organises the working hours of our Parliament until March 15, 2012. The proposals are the general council's working days: outside of weekdays 3, 4, 5 and 6 February 2012, Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday at 14 p.m. Gathering at 00/00, the talks are on the "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" part of these mergers.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0388par0249	You've been talking too long, it's been three minutes!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0387par0250	Verbal questions and other audit issues: an hour of oral questions on Tuesdays until March 15, 2012, and no discussion of other audit issues and the discussion of legislation and proposals. No verbal questions on Wednesdays until March 15, 2012. Working hours: Until the meeting of the General Assembly's 100th-line contract on Friday, until the meeting of the 100th-level contract is completed, until the meeting of the Convention on Turkey's Grand National Assembly, 156 rows today, has been completed.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0389par0252	Is there a law machine in here?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0387par0253	...until the completion of the talks on Sunday at row 98, until the meeting of Law Proposal 136 on Monday...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0389par0254	What machine would make these laws?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0387par0255	...the 24th of the day of the day. If it is not completed by 00, it will continue to work until the completion of the daily schedule; 3 p.m.-20 on Tuesdays until March 15, 2012. Between 00 hours and 1300-20 on Wednesdays. It is recommended to work between 00 hours. The amendment to the Civil Code must be enforced immediately, and some international contracts from the past period must be enforced. We must make this arrangement in order for the Parliament's work to be conducted in a healthy manner. We're all here to watch other party groups constantly block the agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0390par0258	Don't tease me. Don't tease me.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0387par0259	But our proposal is in the interest of our nation and of our Parliament.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0391par0260	What in God's name have you been doing for the past eight months?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0387par0261	That's why the group says we're in favor of our proposal, and once again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0392par0263	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. Mr. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, is now against you. Here you go, Mr. Chancer. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0393par0268	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. But unfortunately, every hour that passes, we lose the opportunity to talk to each other, to compromise, to agree, to understand each other. I care about that a lot. Believe me, we may be able to call these days, but we've had that possibility in the past. The incident that caused this, as you all know, is the Civil Code Change Law Proposal, which the 5 Group Vice President signed and brought here as the vice president of the group. Despite all our efforts in this matter, unfortunately, the ruling party is in a hubris, trying to take over opposition parties in a challenge. Dear friends, what we're discussing here is actually very important. You're trying to restrict people's authority to control the use of their own resources, trying to silence opposition parties using that authority. That's the logic of the arrangement you brought in the Civil Code. Otherwise, it's not a big deal. You're showing your intentions. You will be satisfied wherever you are, wherever you are, whatever shape you are, and that is of great interest to the nation. Of course, in this regard, we've asked you, we've begged you, come, don't. The Civil Code is our constitution, a constitution that determines the terms of working together, the rules. If you dictate and dictate my working conditions in spite of me, there's no good in that. Come on, let's do this Civil Code together so that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can work more effectively, so that it can work more efficiently, that it can establish the law of solutions that meet the expectations of the people. But you didn't throw a millimeter back, you didn't throw it in the subcommittee. In the main commission, you didn't even do it, even though we were asked to participate as group vice presidents in the Constitutional Commission. We had private meetings, we invited them, we invited them, but you didn't throw a mile. You're in a challenge, you mean, we got 50 percent of the vote from the nation, we know the truth, it's the law we speak of, you have no say. That's not the right approach, dear friends. For the good of our country, for our nation, I warn you. This arrogance took place in the past, and I remind you of 1957. I remind you of 1987.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0394par0271	What arrogance was there in 1957, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0393par0272	As a result, look, as opposition parties, we will not surrender to your compulsion. You can't force us to work under circumstances we don't want, you can't take the authority that people give us; I'm telling you this very clearly. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear friends, members of lawmakers, I call upon your consciences, Your Honor, to the government.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0394par0275	First explain 1957.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0393par0276	There are ministers here. Mr. ministers, what issue did you want to pass through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or what important legal arrangement do you want to make in the coming process, and this Civil Code prevented you? For ten years, you have ruled the land and this assembly with this Civil Code. What now, what then? What are the odds that you're being pushed into something like this? Despite all our efforts, you are refusing to compromise, stubbornly, persistently trying to take down this House or to break the word of opposition in this House. And it is not for you to strive (for the cause of Allah). Look, I don't know if you've read the group proposal your group managers brought in. He sets the hours until 15 Martas. We started on Tuesday, and next Monday we'll be working until the end of the law set in front of us. Dear friends, there is no such obligation. This group's proposal, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, seems to be bringing it in with anger, bringing it in as a form of punishment. They say, "If you object, look at what we have brought you. We will make you work in the morning.' It's no good to you. I refer to it as the nationalist movement party. We're not running away from work. We have an offer for you. We said, "Come, let's set this agenda together, whatever you want to discuss." There's an example in the past. It was expressed here yesterday. We've come up with the Law of Trade and Debts, which the market needs, the need of economic life, the need of working life, and we've come up with a compromise here, with an impossible zeal; we've come up with a consensus from the opposition. You couldn't get it out before, you withdrew the law, but it would be a compromise if you agreed to come and work together sincerely. Each time, the group's vice president gives an example of the past. So you're telling us that we've made the laws we need by agreeing with you in the past? So you're saying that from now on, let's never compromise. Is that what you want to say? Dear friends, let me tell you something. If the opposition wants, they can resist every word of this Civil Code through every line. You saw this. You saw this. There's no objection to that, so it's the Civil Code now. You can change it all you want, and the opposition will still use the right to say it. What good is that to you? I mean, with such stubbornness, fighting... look, you haven't been able to produce a substance in two days. Does all this arguing suit you? So that's the public agenda? Is that the duty of this House? So, I'd like to ask you a question: do you or those who have decided on your behalf somewhere, have a decision to discredit this House, to make the work done in this House unnecessary? Do you have any intention of proving that this democracy has nothing to do with this nation? Do you have any intention of getting into a new system that doesn't work for this parliamentary democratic system, such as getting into the presidential system, being accepted into society, digested? Democracy is necessary for all of us. Without opposition in democracy, without control in democracy, the right to say in democracy is called dictatorship if you eliminate the right to express thought. It's called the regimes of history. That's what you do. Why do you need this? Again, what law did you want to break, and why did the opposition stop you? Mr. Secretary, what law have you come to our groups to break and we object to you? So, the Republican People's Party Group, the Peace and Democracy Party Group, has not given you the opportunity to compromise on what you requested? Therefore, I strongly condemn your attitude, which aims to silence the opposition, to absorb the unnecessaryness of the parliamentary democratic system, its uselessness to society. I'm warning you. That won't help you either. I'd like to remind all of you of the whereabouts of those who have tried this in history. Don't get me wrong about what I call the 57 arrogance. I salute those who live 57, and those who have received mercy, and ask for mercy. But don't forget Takriri Sýkün. Where is that party today that played with the Election Law and got 295 MPs out of 87, even though it was alone in power? He had to go to the early election and pass on power. So, dear friends, I repeat, you will not lower the voice of the opposition. You're losing the chance to compromise with us. We are now in the presence of a non-verbal, unintelligible Congress. Then don't even dream of making a law out of here; you can't get it out. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0395par0289	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0396par0290	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0395par0291	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0396par0292	Mr. President, I'd like your word on the bullying, sir. He referred to the Republican People's Party in his speech by making an assessment of the one-party period. That's why I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0397par0294	No, Mr. President didn't say one party. He said "Dictatorship," Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0396par0295	He said it was a one-party period.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0398par0296	Mr. Hamzacebi, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0397par0297	He said "Dictatorship," sir. He didn't say one party, Mr. President. Mr. President used the word "dictator."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0398par0299	Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll promise the last speaker I'll promise the friends.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0399par0300	He mentioned our band's name.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0398par0301	Including you, yes. Mr. Canikli, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You have ten minutes to work it out.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0305	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all first.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0401par0306	Two people from the same party can't talk. There are so many opposition parties. That's not gonna happen! Two people have already spoken. That won't do, Dear President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0307	Now, look, there's something we've always said. So the speaker here should never forget the past of our friends. They must always consider the practices of their past. Now, there have just been some serious accusations about this proposal that we've brought in. I mean, you're going to be a Dictator because you don't want to shut up the opposition? So there's been some claim, which is impossible to accept.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0402par0309	That's an understatement!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0310	So, friends, now tell me... if this is the dictatorship we're offering, then I'm going to give you an example: what is this? See, in 2001, the three political parties that formed the coalition, DSP, MHP, ANAP, are implementing an internal amendment. Is there a Covenant? No. It's just an arrangement brought to power by political parties at the time, that's one.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0403par0312	That's what Mr. Nicema is talking about.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0313	I mean, all the time, sir, you've got to take into account the opposition, you've got to come up with a compromise. It's an internal charter by friends who say,
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0404par0314	What happened to advanced democracy, Mr. Canikli?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0315	Hold on a second. Also, it's under the signatures of three group vice presidents. Three of the political parties that formed the coalition at the time had the signatures of the group's vice presidents. You know, you can't give it to the group, you can't sign it. It's what we've been arguing about for minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0405par0316	They did it wrong, it's wrong!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0317	Two: look, this place is much more important, dear friends. Do you know what kind of regulations have been changed, what has been changed? Look, I'll just read a few.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0405par0318	Mr. Canikli, are you doing the Giresunspor charter?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0319	The question-answer process is reduced to ten minutes, removing the right of groups and lawmakers to speak on the articles, dear friends. That's right. The right of lawmakers and party groups to speak on Articles has been revoked, reducing the number of motions on the clauses to three.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0405par0320	Wrong, wrong, wrong!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0321	Here it is, dated 2001.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0406par0322	If he's wrong, then why are you making this mistake? Why?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0323	Now, look... we made the mistake right after that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0406par0324	That's wrong. You say, you're making the same mistake worse!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0325	Look, we, on December 10, 2002...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0407par0326	You're taking it further back!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0327	...we've raised the time of the question-answer in 20 minutes, we've made the Civil Code change that allows you to reduce it to ten minutes, to talk about it again, in our time, friends...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0407par0328	You're taking it further back with this fix!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0329	...in that period of criticism and the number of motions on substances has been raised from three to seven again. Who did this? AK PARTY did it, AK PARTY did it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0408par0331	Why are you dropping it to one now? Why are you dropping it to one now?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0332	So, what do we do, guys? Look, we don't bring regulations here, we don't touch them, we don't change them, we don't change them, we don't do anything about legislation and control, which is the main activity of this House.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0409par0334	Mercy!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0335	What are we changing?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0410par0336	It's completely wrong!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0337	That's right, yeah. What are we changing?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0410par0338	It's completely wrong!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0339	We are referring to the 19th article of the Civil Charter, or group proposals. What time did we start working today, dear friends? It's 13 o'clock. We started at 00. 13. What have we been talking about since 00? Are we talking about auditing or legislature activity?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0411par0340	Come on, let's talk.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0341	We're just discussing group suggestions.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0412par0342	You're the one who's responsible for this.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0343	What's the group proposal? What's the point of the group proposal? So what's the point of grouping suggestions? It's about changing the agenda of the House, running the agenda of the House itself, that's what we've been doing all morning.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0413par0344	We're going to make an agenda as you feel like it?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0345	Well, on Tuesday, this Parliament, the General Assembly, met, debated again and set the agenda, so the agenda is clear. So we're saying...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0414par0346	How much did you consider the opposition?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0347	And we still haven't gotten to the point. Look, it's almost 7:00 p.m. right now, it's been six hours, guys, six hours.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0414par0348	How much did you consider the opposition when you set the agenda?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0415par0349	Guys, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0350	It's been six hours, and we haven't been able to start auditing and legislature work, which is the main activity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0416par0351	Of course you can't.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0352	That's what we want.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0417par0353	Wrong, wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0354	That's what we want. Or who talks when there's a law to be passed when there's a law to be passed, dear friends? Again, the opposition speaks, of course, he must speak, he must speak, and we have no objection. Look, in the group proposals... we're lowering the number of speakers who are 4 to 1, and we're already talking about 2 of them. Who's speaking against you? Your group... you've seen it today, you've brought your group proposals, both sides are spoken against. Who speaks against two, dear friends? We're talking. So we're essentially reducing the power group's right to speak for itself.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0418par0356	You talk to him, we want him, too.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0357	The opposition is down to one, but he's talking, so we're cool with that, guys. Let's do the audit work and talk again.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0419par0358	It's not a blessing.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0359	So what we want to do is let the opposition talk again, criticize again, control again, but let's do it during work hours. And then you say, again today, sir, you can't force it to work. You have to work at night. Friends, is there another way? Imagine when we'll be working.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0419par0360	Is there another way of opposition besides bringing in group proposals?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0361	And in public, there are operations at midnight. The Turkish Grand National Assembly and MPs are also under indictment. Aren't you guys staying?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0419par0362	Does the opposition have a choice but to bring in group suggestions?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0363	Don't we always face this accusation? You also say that Angaria is contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0419par0365	What are you consulting on?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0366	Why do we have to work at night? We're working at night because you're acting like a dictator. Because we still haven't made the point, dear friends. I mean, could it be such an inefficient way of working?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0420par0369	You're the one who's responsible for this.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0370	Otherwise, we don't shut up the opposition; on the contrary, if the opposition has a suggestion, if he has a project, let him speak, there is opportunity.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0420par0371	We said, "Let's talk many times. Let's talk many times in the nation's Assembly."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0372	Sir, let's begin the meeting of the law. Look, when a law is being negotiated, what's the duration of their meeting? [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Let me, look, guys, we've listened to you, please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0420par0375	You're the one who won't talk!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0400par0376	Twenty minutes each talking, party groups talking, all over a law, right? How many groups are there? Four. So three opposition groups are talking, look, guys, 20 minutes each; one twenty minutes of power group talking. Can we say something called, can we have such a purpose? Sir, let the opposition speak.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0421par0378	Why don't we know?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0422par0379	This happens in dictatorship regimes, not in democracies!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0423par0380	Franco, Franco!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0381	You know very well that the opposition may speak, but come, with a rationality that contributes here, which is to the main law enforcement activity, is to produce and criticize projects, but also to be critical.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0425par0382	Mr. Nurettin, why didn't we talk about this sitting down?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0383	Otherwise, we're not making the slightest adjustment in any way regarding the slightest control and legislative activity.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0425par0384	You're putting on a show on the stand. We didn't talk about it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0385	Look, there's something about this offer. If we had such intentions, dear friends, if we had such intentions, we would know the hours of work... between 3:00 p.m. and 1900 p.m., the hours of work are mentioned in our Interior Charter. We work here at 2:00-20. We're looking at a 00. That doesn't just mean increased working hours.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0426par0386	Let's raise more.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0387	It also means that the speech of our opposition parliamentary friends will be published on Parliamentary television. (CHP and MHP rows) That's it, that's it, that's it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0427par0389	You show death, Mr. Canicli, and you persuade malaria. You turned off the TV!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0390	In a moment, five minutes, look, the current procedure is that in five minutes, Parliament television will not give these talks.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0427par0391	Thanks to you, thanks to you!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0392	If this is published, if our proposal for the Civil Code is accepted...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0427par0393	You're the one who's responsible for this!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0394	...an hour early to broadcast, and an hour more at the closing, two hours in total.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0427par0396	It's about showing death and settling for malaria.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0397	Guys, look, there's no reason for us to shut up the opposition, really, we don't. You know why?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0427par0398	Why can't you just sit down and compromise?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0399	Look, why? I mean, I'm sorry, but I have to say this. Now, look, there's been no restrictions on anything since we came to power, TV was broadcasting all the talks. Until 00. Is it true? So as long as there were talks here, there were no restrictions, until this last arrangement.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0428par0400	What happened? What happened?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0401	Look what happened. So, and spoken, the opposition, the citizen listened. We've had five elections, we've had two referendums, the results are clear, that's the result. What happened? So that doesn't hurt us, guys. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I mean, there's no harm in the opposition talking all day long and having them televised, dear friends. Why would we do that?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0429par0404	Who picked up this TV?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0405	Mr. Chancer always says it, and now he's promised to pick on it, but it's okay.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0429par0406	Tell me who put this TV away.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0407	Mr. Shandır always says the right thing; it is the duty of the ruling group to run this House.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0429par0408	Well, then you're in charge of not being able to run it well.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0409	Yeah, it's the power group's job to run efficiently, guys.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0430par0410	Is it working now?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0411	We're all working here on people's taxes, and these studies need to be efficient, they need to be effective. Can you say otherwise?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0431par0412	Why can't you get it to work?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0413	I mean, we've come this late, and we still haven't been able to get to our original work, and since this morning...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0431par0414	You're the reason.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0415	It's not just today, I'll tell you that. We had to shut down the House, friends, because we were unable to complete the group proposals for days, days, days, up to seven days, until normal working hours.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0432par0416	Is it working now?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0417	Why? We were unable to negotiate because of the issue of control, nor were we able to proceed to the main legislative activity.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0433par0418	Thanks to you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0419	It's just that, like we're doing right now, the group proposals took time, and the clock ran out, and we shut down the House. That's not possible. So let me ask you the question you've really just asked, are your consciences really willing to do this kind of inefficient work, friends?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0434par0420	Either that's because of you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0424par0421	Otherwise, we don't do anything to keep the opposition quiet, and we can't, and we don't have the slightest problem with that. I salute you all, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0435par0424	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0436par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0437par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0436par0427	Mr. President, Mr. Canicli also called my name...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0438par0428	I'm sorry, I didn't...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0436par0429	Sir, on the subject of Mr. Canikli's speech...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0438par0430	Of course, I'll give it to all of you. I'll give it to Mr. Hamzacebi, in order. Come in, Mr. Hamzacebi, please, in two minutes without further ado...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0439par0434	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli didn't give the right information about the work done in 2001 on the amendment to the Civil Code. In 2001, there was a amendment to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0440par0435	Here it is.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0439par0436	Yes, and here's what I'm showing you, Mr. Canicli. Open the transcripts and look at the 2001 amendment of the Civil Code, where the group's proposals can be discussed in the General Assembly, the General Assembly must accept 3/5 majority of that proposal to be discussed. So the basic law proposals, which the General Assembly generally accepts, can be discussed in the General Assembly. He sought a compromise; the right, the wrong, the power of that period demonstrated an understanding that observed reconciliation in the Parliament. Despite that understanding, a friend of yours sitting in your desks today, a key lawyer, a commissioner of ours, has struck it on the ground, the mind behind this proposal is not the mind behind it. He said, "This is a mind that doesn't believe in democracy." He said, "This is a mind that doesn't believe in common sense." He said, "This is an egoist suggestion."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0440par0438	That's what he's saying.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0441par0439	He's just saying it for the understanding of that day.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0439par0440	Look, the House is a compromise. We've given good examples of compromise. Last year -- I said this yesterday -- from January 11th to January 14th -- we adopted five laws of 2,698, including the Turkish Trade Law, the Turkish Law of Debts. Isn't that a good example? Why don't you try this way? In the 22nd century, we gave examples of reconciliation. Look, you're saying that the Parliament can't work. You're saying that in the 22nd term Parliament has passed 914 laws, has passed 548 laws in the 23rd term, and which law have you brought to this day? You don't work, you don't work; the Czech Law has arrived, the President's Choice Act has arrived... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The power is not working, the power is lazy, the power can't only tolerate the voice of the opposition, so it wants to change the Civil Code. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0442par0446	He can't stand your presence, let alone your voice.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0443par0447	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0444par0448	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0445par0449	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0443par0450	Mr. Chancer, come in. I'll give it to you later. In two minutes, please repeat...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0446par0453	I have to have four minutes, I have to pick on two groups, from Mr. Canikli, from Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0447par0455	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli is not telling the truth. I mean, friends, shame on people. It is unfair to accuse this opposition of uncompromising, preventing work. I like your eyes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0448par0456	What are you doing right now?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0447par0457	Look, we say it every time: the government sets the agenda. I respect that. But it's my job to bring people's agenda. Now, I invite you to leave. This group proposal you've brought in, none of the topics you've brought in by Monday evening and imposed as a necessity until the end, have no social response. You're not bringing up anything about the lives of the people. (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) What are you bringing? So what problem do you bring here to solve, to set up law? Obligatory, opposition parties are bringing group proposals to investigate society's problems, to talk about them. That's what's bothering you. I propose to you, I say, "Come, let's run the coven." 14. We're going to start at 00, 13. Let's start at 00, 11. Let's start at 00, 21. Let's work until 00, 22. Let's work until 00. Why are you running away?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0448par0459	We're working till morning.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0447par0460	But then why do you turn down the opposition's voice, the opposition's idea of a group? There's a Mr. Secretary here -- if you don't tell the truth by God -- they brought the law to us before they brought it to their group -- we created the agreement, and those very important laws passed here without any discussion. He's got witnesses here. But it was not right to blame the opposition today, nor was it elegant, to stand up and imitate the 21st century. You have no right.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0449par0461	The 21st term for wrongful reasons...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0447par0462	But what you're doing now is really lowering the voice of opposition. It's not democracy, it's fascism, guys. That's the bottom line.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0450par0464	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0451par0466	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0450par0467	I'll give you my word now, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0451par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0450par0469	Just a moment, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0451par0471	In his speech, Mr. Canikli said there is no reason for us to lower the voice of the opposition. Zapta, please take a look.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0450par0472	Okay.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0451par0473	From here, please, let him make a statement. I mean, can there be a reason to lower the voice of the opposition in democracy, I don't think so.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0450par0474	There isn't. He said...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0451par0475	Please explain this from the stand. What could cause the opposition to lower its voice?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0450par0476	There isn't. He said...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0451par0477	For him, I mean, we can cut it down if we have to. Is that what he's saying? Please explain this from the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0450par0478	Mr. Sun, thank you. I'll give you my word now. Mr. Kaplan, please wrap it up in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0452par0481	Mr. President, the AK PARTY Deputy Director tells us we're not interrupting. We're not shutting down Parliament TV. What is it that you bring? You take away the will of the people, the will of the people. The answer to that, I will go to 2001 again and say it in the words of Brent Arinc: "You want the parliament, you bring peace of nature, you waver between honour and isolation." Raise your hand and you say, "Put it down." You're doing a finger count. It's a disgrace. He says it's in these Civil Code discussions at the time. Again, excuse me, it's the expression of the people, raw hum sorolop, all numbers are temporary. It says, "I'll tell you again" in 2001. In five minutes, Beşiktas says, "How can this happen? " And you're developing a quick democracy. God has not blessed you. What would you like? What more do you want? You can turn down my name, Hasip Kaplan. The Hasip Kaplan is the will of the nation, the deputy. You can't silence the will of the people who came with their votes, you can't pass the sovereignty, you can't violate the Constitution, you can't bring the laws of authority. This isn't the Neonazi Assembly! You can't bring Neonasism, you can't bring fascism. Damn neonasism, neonasism! (Applause from BDP, CHP and MHP in rows) Damn your attentions! Cursed be those who dream about it! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism! Long live democracy, long live the brotherhood of the people.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0450par0484	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Dear MPs, the final word on the proposal is Mr. Hursit Günşit. Alderman Sun, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0491	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a commitment to the amendment of the Civil Code. My respects to all of you. Parliamentary Institution is a very important law, no doubt, because the foundation, fundamentally, of the parliamentary regime, is very important, just like the Constitution. This parliamentary democracy will show us how to work under this roof. The bottom line is that we will increase the efficiency and efficiency of living in parliament. Supposedly, he's going to eliminate the extravagance. Dear MPs, we have been trying to deepen the pluralist parliamentary regime in Turkey for sixty-five years. Sometimes our efforts are cut by blows, but most of the time we get through these blows with great ease because our people are with us. These coups bring great atrocities, but when the democratic regime derails, the vast majority of our people's fortunes put democracy back on its liberal path, without having to answer for what caused it, without having to take revenge. Congressmans, the people of this land have acquired citizenship with the republic, while they have been servants of the sultan, known for centuries as the elephant world. That's how the political will transferred its source to the public. Then what happened? Sixty-five years ago, it happened: Sixty-five years ago, a political party that formed the basic body of the state brought a multi-party regime to Turkey to be different voices in Parliament, other than the pluralistic democracy, other than its own voice.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0454par0497	You've been gracious!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0498	Yes, you were part of it. There was only one party in Turkey. Now, our people have happily accepted the multiparty regime. Isn't that right? Isn't multiparty regime a much better regime? Yeah. Now...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0455par0500	That's right, he buried you in the trunk.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0501	It's good, we've gone to the opposition, so what? Opposition and power are an important part of this Parliament. The Republican People's Party, which left power at the time, did not try to silence power, but said to speak as much as possible. Now, let me put it bluntly: if we agree to a democracy based on a majority of votes, we'll also agree to a primordial, primordial, immature parliamentary regime. However, even if such a parliamentary system is considered legitimate, such power is considered legitimate, it is not fair. You will disband your power so that it may become a fair democracy, you will give voice to the opposition, you will give voice to the opposition, you will be criticized, and you will take power from it. That's what's fair. If the majority of the public can't find its representation, if he doesn't think that the power gives him a voice, if he doesn't think that power is fair, he thinks that there's a mandate, and that's the most important thing to be avoided.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0455par0503	He's calling someone on a mission.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0504	The conscience of society is extremely important. Dear lawmakers, look, it's not good to have a majority of votes or to have as much power as possible. So you could call it that. Look, I'm going to remind you that Mr. Elitaş isn't here, but he remembers the time: there was a referendum in Turkey in 1987. In that referendum, politicians who didn't abandon their powers, who didn't want to give up their power, wanted to ban the political rights of politicians before 1980, just like the coupgers. With the same words as the coupters, they said: "Let not the political rights of the politicians of 80 years ago be restored." What a shame. We never judged them, nor did our people judge them. Our people judged them in the polls, and that's the truth. Unfortunately, politicians who acted with the coupgers ended up in the polls. Dear friends, one of the highest values sent to humanity is justice. Justice is not only sought in courtrooms; justice is also sought in politics. Unfair power is the power that doesn't give people freedom, gives individuals no civil objection, gives them no right to criticize the media. We must avoid them. Democratic authorities don't lock up those who object to them, they want them to speak freely. Dear MPs, one thing I don't understand about this power is that the members of this government often come and complain about opposition on this stand. The way I see it, he talks about the actions of power, and the opposition criticizes him, doesn't it? No. The ruling members are usually going to tell us what they're doing when they come on this stand -- look, they're here -- they're going to tell us what they're doing, and we're going to criticize them, and they're going to the one-party period, or they're going to the Republican People's Party, or they're going to criticize the other wings of the opposition. What kind of power is that? Will there be no opposition to power? Now, what we don't understand, my dear friends, is that a constitution is being drawn up, and our Prime Minister said, "Let's have a settlement commission, let's have all the political parties come in, and let's draw up the constitution in this settlement commission together." Isn't that right? Yeah. Other opposition parties came and took part there. Now, about the Civil Code, which creates the Parliament's operating mechanism, I'm curious, why isn't such a compromise sought? So we're not going to compromise and adjust the operating mechanism of this place? (CHP cheers) We're making a constitution with compromise, but we're not making an agreement with the Civil Code. Now, what does that bring? It's clear what this brings: it reduces the right to speak, reduces the time. Now, naturally, the opposition will complain. Now, how are we supposed to make a constitution by agreeing with a power that doesn't give voice to the opposition, that doesn't give word? Come, tell us and convince us. (Applause from CHP rows) We're going to make a democratic constitution, and you're going to say, "We're going to do it just like the Civil Code?" As far as I'm concerned, it's a very important blow to the credibility of the Commission for Compromise. Dear MPs, dear friends, the Parliamentary platform sometimes reflects the people's free will to Parliament by conflict, sometimes by compromise. That's the podium. You will trust this bench. On this stand, everyone will say they want it free. Look, twenty years ago, the leader of the Socialdemocratic People's Party led those who didn't think so, to come and speak here. Now, most of Turkey's kahir thinks it's a good thing for democracy, and they're coming here. Because on this stand, under this roof of Parliament, we're going to debate, we're going to expand, we're going to compromise, we're going to negotiate. Compromise is not a bad thing, compromise is the essence of democracy. Mr. AK PARTY, members of the ruling party, you need to maintain the culture of reconciliation, you need to be tolerant. If you say that we have 50 votes per cent. If you say that the majority of Turkey supports us. If you really have that power in your heart, then come and embrace it here with everyone, so that you can compromise it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0456par0514	The convention talk...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0515	It's not a convention speech, it's an important lesson. Do you know what is the most important evil impulse for the democratic derailment of power? For the sake of active action, opposition is blocked. Have fear of God. See, dear friends, it's not enough just to make a democratic constitution to achieve democracy, but also to change mentality and speech. Democracy doesn't come to the country unless mentalitys and speakers are changed. The Constitution has not been dealt with on the basis of the coups, but the beatings have come because of the wrong mentality and speech.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0457par0518	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0519	Yeah... if you don't know, find out.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0457par0520	Of course, you know better.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0521	We know well, we brought Turkey's multiparty regime.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0457par0523	We know!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0524	Sure... sure... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You came out here and said...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0527	Mr. Sun, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0453par0528	Look, I've been told. When you say it, the Republican People's Party has no signature. Dear friends, if you really want a democratic constitution, you take up the culture of reconciliation, and we'll take it out by compromise, not by force, not by vote, but by justice.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0531	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0459par0534	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0460par0535	Mr. President, I have a quick word.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0536	Mr. Batum, one moment from your position...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0459par0537	We want roll call...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0538	Dear friends, there's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Godkulu, Mr. Kart, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Firat, Mr. Akar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Batum, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Öner, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Il, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Young, Mr. Özkan. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0461par0547	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We have a brief word.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0548	Those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0461par0549	How can you vote that, President, we haven't talked about anything yet! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0550	Mr. Group Vice President told us, so we've moved on, so there's nothing to vote on.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0461par0551	No, Mr. Group Vice President just asked for a roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0552	Mr. Batum may ask for a roll call. From that moment on, we have to go to a vote after roll call. That's the procedure, I'm sorry. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0461par0554	Okay, but we're still asking for word, Mr. President, roll call is one thing.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0555	Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0461par0556	What does roll call have to do with voting?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0462par0557	Mr. Batum is demanding a word, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0558	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0461par0559	It's a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0560	There's no conversation on the subject after we go to roll call. We've already passed the vote, and it's over, sir. I'm sorry. It's... it's...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0461par0561	That's not possible. The roll call's one thing, the vote's another.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0563	Now we move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda's work.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0463par0565	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0566	We begin talks on whether the number-one geneor motion (11/7) for the opening of a Gensor on Mr. Sadullah Ergin, on the charge that İzmir MP Oğuz Oyan and 59 MPs have not met the requirements of duty and responsibility and have not made the necessary effort to preserve judicial independence.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0464par0567	Is a roll call the same as a vote, Mayor?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0568	One moment, sir... one moment...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0464par0569	What kind of a thing is that, Mayor?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0570	Mr. President, let's hear from the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0464par0571	Mr. President, roll call is a separate vote.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0572	Here you go, sir. Let's hear from the Deputy Director of the Group... please sit down... please sit down... Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0465par0575	Mr. President, first of all, I invite you to be kind. The presidency is not the hierarchy of this General Assembly. You're not the hierarchical chief of this General Assembly. A group of political party vice presidents stands up, raises their hand, if they want a word, let's just listen to it, let's let the Civil Code rule be a courtesy. You're throwing it away. I regret to inform you that as a Group Vice President, I see only you. Dear...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0576	Mr. President, may I have a moment of your time? My dear Batum...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0465par0577	Mr. President, just a moment... Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0578	Just a moment, sir. Mr. Batum came to you, and you asked for a roll call. You said, "I kept checking on him."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0465par0580	Mr. President, I'm not finished.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0581	Sir?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0465par0582	I'm not finished, why are you interrupting me?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0583	But if you don't mind, I have to say my words.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0465par0584	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0585	Look, I was going to promise Mr. Batum for a minute, and you said: "We want a roll call, we're going to roll call." I went ahead. I went on with my respect. You're saying that you didn't show respect.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0466par0586	But roll call's over, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0588	But that's what happened, sir, right in front of us. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0467par0592	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you again to be kind.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0593	And I invite you to be kind. Please... please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0467par0596	Just a second... look, I'll tell you... Well done! Well done!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0597	Please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0467par0598	For this reason, I invite you to be kind: You cannot be interrupted by a scribe, a speaker. You are the one who must observe this in the first place; the one who sits on that Court, who is in charge of this session. Look, this is the second time, the second time. When I stood up for Mr. Kamer's suggestion about the young man's speech, you interrupted my words and conveyed your own thoughts. Now you're doing the same thing. You just did, now that you've turned on the microphone, after you've started talking, you're doing the same thing again. Let's let the Civil Code rule -- I repeat -- it's a courtesy not to interrupt. Now, you, excuse me, misread the sentences, interpret them as they suit you. I stood up, asked for a roll call. After I made the request, Mr. Batum asked for a word, and I understood that he had a very short word for the 60th article. So I said to Mr. Batum, "Mr. Batum, we've taken a vote." That means, after the vote, consider Mr. Batum's request. You vote like nothing happened, you go on the agenda, you start reading. I address you from here, raise my hand, Mr. President. I say. But if this ordinary group of vice presidents had stood up and said, Mr. President, you would have listened to him and made a promise to him. The president's office...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0600	No, that's your personal opinion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0467par0601	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, if you interrupt my sentence, you'll be out of your depth, please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0458par0602	I gave you a minute, it's over. I'm still waiting for you to finish, please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0467par0603	Wait... where is this coming from, Mr. President? Where's it coming from?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0468par0604	Mr. President, on what grounds did you make that promise?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0467par0605	Wait a second... You didn't tell me you promised for a minute, where's this coming from?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0468par0607	Mr. President, according to what decree of the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0467par0608	So, as the ruling party deputy leader just said, it's not time to turn down the voice of the opposition. Is that an epiphany of his understanding or a reflection of his understanding? Now I invite you to observe the Civil Law, and I invite you to be kind, and give you the word of Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0469par0610	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0470par0611	Mr. President, what clause of the Civil Code does he demand?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0467par0612	According to Article 60.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0471par0613	We demanded according to Article 60.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0470par0614	Well, do you have to give it according to the 60th article, Mr. President? It's the President's will.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0471par0615	We reported it to the president and he gave it to me.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0472par0616	Are you interrupting already, Canicli?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0470par0617	Mr. President has his discretion, whether he gives or doesn't, but as if you must...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0473par0618	Are you the President's attorney if you love God?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0470par0619	But look at the speeches, look at the speeches...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0474par0620	We're lawyers for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0473par0621	How can a bunch of vice presidents be the President's lawyer?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0474par0622	The president doesn't participate in comments. If you read the Civil Code, the President won't participate in the comments.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0473par0623	At least take it easy with the procedural debates!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0624	Now wait a minute, sir, wait a minute... please sit down. Mr. Batum, you've applied to me before, and I told you I'd give you my word for a minute. Isn't that right, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0476par0626	You did.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0627	Now, on the way in, Mr. President asked for a roll call, and I said, "Well, that's what he said, and we went to roll call."
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0477par0628	I've been told, Mr. President, before.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0629	It's normal to take a vote after that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0477par0630	Before we check the warrant.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0478par0631	We witnessed it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0632	Now, wait a minute, sir... wait a minute... If you insist on taking a moment, I promise you one minute.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0479par0634	Mr. President, there's only one vote, and you know it very well.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0635	Sir, I'm asking you now... now, come on in, I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0480par0636	Mr. President, according to 60, he should speak at his place.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0637	One second... one second... let's finish here, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0481par0638	Mr. President, based on what? According to 60, Mr. President. You gave it to me according to what, according to 60...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0639	I have a brief request for a word earlier. I give it to you, sir, and I don't have any more.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0482par0640	Why are you interfering with the president?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0641	Please, come in. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0483par0643	Mr. President, this motion has been made to me that it is not possible to discuss because... listen, listen... Dear friends, our friend said the same thing, he said: "You set up the Constitutional Compromise Commission." You want to spend the constitution in compromise with the Constitutional Compromise Commission. That's what you want to give to Turkey. He said. This Civil Code passed in one day. It happened in one day, and when the same came in 2001, you applied to the Constitutional Court with 115 signatures. There's a difference between us, our friend Hursit just told us, we've gone from one party to democracy, you've gone from party to dictatorship. That's the difference between us. But even though our BDP friends allow it, we won't allow it as CHP.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0647	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0483par0648	I'm stressing this in particular, we won't allow it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0650	Please... Please... Please... Mr. Batum, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0484par0653	We won't let you, you'll see, we won't let them.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0655	Mr. Batum, please... Your time is up, please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0485par0656	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0657	Dear friends, government? He's in position. Please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0485par0659	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0486par0660	Just a minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0661	I'm not having it re-readed because the motion was previously submitted to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0485par0662	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0663	Here you are, sir, if you please. Mr. President, wait a minute... on what grounds did you promise Mr. Hatibe from the bench? You need to open up a discussion of procedure, that's irregularity. In what way... I've been... Wait a second... AUDIENCE -... You're making a promise from the stand that needs to be given your place? He's picking on us, too. It's irregular. He demanded it before, and I couldn't give it to him when he went into roll call, and we kept our promise. Please... Okay. We'd like to open a formal debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... - That's wrong. Sir, please... Please... Mr. Orator, if you please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0487par0672	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0673	Mr. Sun, I beg you, it's okay...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0487par0674	Mr. President, I asked for an explanation from the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0488par0675	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0676	Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0487par0677	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0678	... According to Article 99, in this meeting...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0489par0679	Mr. President... (AK PARTY rankings) This is the Deputy Director of a Group (AK PARTY desks, sit-down voices) and you're ignoring it as a President. What does that mean?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0681	Please don't shout, please don't shout.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0489par0682	You need to shout so you can hear it, right?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0683	Sir, now...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0489par0684	Didn't you see he made a fool of himself?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0685	Group's over.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0489par0686	Didn't you hear him make a fool of himself?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0687	Who?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0489par0688	That's the Orator.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0689	Mr. Sun?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0489par0690	The Orator just called my party's name, my band's name and teased me.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0691	Okay, go ahead. Here, just a minute. I didn't hear.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0490par0694	Well, do we have to fight about it, or do we have to raise our voices?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0695	No, sir, it's not a fight. I didn't pick on your party. I didn't pick on it. From what you said... here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0490par0697	You'll hear what, then, will you, Mayor?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0491par0698	Mr. President, I asked Mr. Canikli for an explanation, see what he did?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0475par0699	Here you go, sir. Here you go. Okay, you're welcome. Mr. Kaplan, please. Please don't let us be bullied again, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0492par0705	We're always here to stand up to those who get bullied. Yes, this country saw the single party period, from the First World War to the Second World War at that time, but it also saw parties born from that party. We're on a multiparty regime. When we passed this multi-party regime, we saw that in the multi-party regime, someone longed for one party regime, one leadership regime, and one dictatorship. No one can share this with the Peace and Democracy Party, no one can share it. Look, you can meet at the reviews, you can do the Anti-Terror Law together in 2006. You did the Civil Charter together, so remember, I'm going to talk about 2004. But I want you to know that you will never, ever draw the Party of Peace and Democracy into your own line.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0493par0708	It's obvious you're drawn to the line.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0494par0709	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0495par0711	Mr. President, I'd like to say something about the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0494par0712	Oh, come on, man.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0495par0713	The MHP passed along with the BDP Group, and the National Movement Party has an opinion.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0494par0714	Okay, I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0495par0717	Dear President, very valuable deputies, I'd like to remind you of something. Power without justice is cruelty. (MHP and CHP) If a power lacks justice, it is cruel, it is cruel; justice without power, without sanction is weak.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0496par0718	We have justice.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0495par0719	Of course, justice must be enforced in order for it to be enforced, it must have its power, but if that power is being used like today, when you're trying to dominate the majority will of people, if you can't understand that all the will of the nation is this Parliament, there's actually one mentality being discussed, there's one logic being discussed, there's no debate here, there's no debate, there's no debate between the law, there's no debate, there's no argument here. So it reveals justice, a sense of democracy. That's your idea of democracy.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0497par0721	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0495par0722	It's a majority, but it's never been pluralist, it's a non- pluralistic democracy. So...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0498par0723	Are you a minority?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0495par0724	We're not minorities. We are representatives of the people's will. Therefore, we believe that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the will of the nation.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0499par0725	Please, sir, it's okay. Your time is up, sir. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0495par0726	We've internalized democracy, but you can't internalize it, you can't internalize it. Since you can't internalize democracy, the mentality is being discussed here.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0499par0727	Congressman, your time is up, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0495par0728	There are some of you who are very valuable, intelligent, and I think they're dying for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0499par0730	Last, Mr. Shandir, from your position, one minute, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0500par0731	Mr. President, I've asked Mr. Canikli to explain.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0499par0732	Sir, if you'll excuse me, he'll do it if he wants to explain himself, Mr. Sun. Take your seats, please. Yes, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0501par0736	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, there's something that comes out of these arguments that we've come to the end of, and what we're doing isn't right. Please, I'm here to present to the intelligent ministers of this Justice and Development Party, your honor. Please withdraw this Civil Code Law Proposal, and we will renegotiate. Whatever your purpose, whatever you need, let's discuss it. So don't throw this House's future into the abyss until its test is broken. One last warning, and I have been promised. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0502par0740	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0503par0742	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0502par0743	Please, Mr. Tanal... please...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0503par0744	I've filed a petition for insult to your person. You can't sit there right now as Chairman of the Court. He needs to be put to the General Assembly's vote first.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0502par0745	No.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0503par0746	Not until that problem is taken care of!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0502par0747	Sir, thank you, your word has been taken. You can't decide whether I can sit here or not. Your words have been taken care of, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0503par0750	Sir, first of all, I petitioned for you...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0502par0754	Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, one member of the motion will be promised to one member, one MP on behalf of political party groups, and one minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I'm reading the names of the MPs in question: Öğuz Oyan, İzmir MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Sırrı Süzyya Önder on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; İstanbul MP; Faruk Bal on behalf of the Milliyetist Movement Party Group; İstanbul MP on behalf of Faruk Bal on behalf of the People's Party Group. Now, Mr. Mahmoud Tanal, the Istanbul MP, is the owner of the motion. Mr. Tanal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0761	My dear President, the esteemed MPs, of course, you immediately stated the time of the speech is ten minutes, but there is no warrant in the Constitution or the Interior Charter for a ten-minute period. I'm not leaving here until you tell me what's wrong with me. Let me give you this warning first. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two: There is no constitution in a country where legislation, execution, and judiciary are united. From where we are today, the legislative, executive, judicial body is united. In that sense, the Constitution has been ignored by AKP power in the state of the Republic of Turkey. So why am I saying this here? What was done during the AKP period? The problem with the Department of Justice we're talking about here... is the Department of Justice. One: the number of prisons has increased, most of the real estate around the prisons is publicized because the prisons that are available are not enough.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0505par0766	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0767	Two: there has been a constitutional amendment to the HSYK. What happened with the amendment? There were government judges. I sing the praises of good-willed judges. Now, in this way, in the Ergenekon case, Istanbul 13th, which has decided to search the home of the late Turkan Saylan, the accused of Ergenekon, who has been charged with compensation over the complaint of Professor Mehmet Haberal. Heavy Criminal Court Member Omar Diken, Special Official İstanbul 10. President of the Criminal Court. Erzincan was appointed Attorney General Taner Aksakal, Aksaray Attorney General, who contributed to the investigation and investigation of former Attorney General İlhan Cihaner. Republican Prosecutor Rasim Karakullukcı Erzurum was Deputy Attorney General, while Prosecutor Osman Şanal Antalya became Public Prosecutor. Judge Mehmet Karatay became Ankara Judge. It's about the judges who won the compensation case and were rewarded; Judge Rüstem Eryılmaz, who arrested Colonel Dursun Çiçek, who was charged with denying his release demands, who was ordered to pay compensation to Haberal. He's been appointed President of the High Criminal Court. The 14th in cases such as Ergenekon, with a significant amount of arrest warrants under his signature, is known for looking at evacuation demands equally cold, where Haberal has received compensation. High Criminal Court Member Eval Çakır İstanbul 18. President of the High Criminal Court. The 13th known for its similar attitude in evac and arrest. High Criminal Court Member Gökmen Demircan, 14. He's been brought to the chair of the High Criminal Court. It's about the prosecutors who asked for an evacuation. Special Official Istanbul 10th in the case of Ergenekon, who has put up opposition for evacuation. Chief Justice of the High Criminal Court Zafer Başkurt was appointed to Gebze (Gebze) one week before the trial of the Sledgehammer trial began. In the same way, Special Official İstanbul 14. Erkan Canak, the chief of the High Criminal Court, was taken to Sakarya. He was appointed to the Bolu Courthouse of Koksal Şengün, who was the president of the Ergenekon case, who asked for evacuation of many defendants. We want free education. Special Prosecutor Kasım İlimoğlu has been appointed to the prosecutor of Büçükçekmece who has opened the banner and asked for an acquittal of three students who have been arrested for 14 months. I am under a lot of administrative pressure to evacuate retired General Hurşit Tolon. I am under special authority of İstanbul, who wants to leave the post, saying that he will evacuate Haberal. Necat Ede, a member of the High Criminal Court, was taken to Bakırköy. İstanbul Special Official Judge Oktay Kuban, who issued an eviction order on 21 defendants in the Balyoz case, was appointed to Eskişehir, while Judge Mehmet Faik Saban, who provided the evacuation of Dursun Çiçek. 11th in opposition to evacuation for sledgehammer defendants. High Criminal Court Member Oktay Acar has become a criminal judge. Judges who voted for the evacuation of 26 soldiers in the sledgehammer case were sent to Tuncay Aslan, Bakırköy; Yilmaz Alp to the Fatih Judgeship. Ankara 12. Erol Tatar, a member of the High Criminal Court, became the original criminal judge. As the Lighthouse case was removed from three prosecutors' duties, the indictment was filed against them, and all the defendants were released. In the case known as the "Poshu" case, the prosecutor who demanded an acquittal for twenty-two months has been changed before the trial, and the prosecutor has demanded a maximum sentence of up to forty-five years. I'm going to leave with the long list of candidates for the HSYK election with the ASAV founders and members who actually exist at the DA's appointment, but that's what I'm going to tell you for now. As for the Ministry of Justice, the amendment of the constitution is being made, sir, a free choice of the HSYK. The election of judges adopted by this constitutional amendment requires that they be elected members of the board, divided into groups or otherwise. This leads to bias instead of neutrality... the election process and new elections that lead to continuity. The European Court of Human Rights rulings against Turkey is translated into Turkish, while the European Court of Human Rights decisions on other countries are not translated into Turkish, and our Turkish judge, Turkish lawyers, are a barrier to developing this issue. The source of a good lawyer is good law education and quality student. The law schools have been increasing rapidly since 2010, although I know it's not clear at the moment, I know it's 64, but if it's wrong, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, research officers at foundation universities are taking classes, which is also lowering the quality of law school. A first-class judge's gross annual salary in Turkey was 18,251 euros in the UK, 55,000 euros in the UK, 36,000 euros in Belgium, 36,000 euros in France, 49,000 euros in Spain, 51,000 euros in Greece. Courts don't have their own budget in Turkey. The budget of the courts is in the Ministry of Justice, which is audited by the Ministry, directed by the state prosecutors, which undermines judicial independence. The ruling state of the courthouse buildings: this is run by the state's attorney general, which makes judges powerless against prosecutors. Gen. General Command and Security Directorate Ankara 11. They have demanded a verdict from the High Criminal Court, which the Justice Department has objected to the decision of the General Directorate of Security, even though it did not object to the decision that wiretapping all over Turkey is unconstitutional, under Article 109 of the Penal Code. I thank them for objecting to the decision of the General Command of the Gendarmes. It really was a human rights violation. However, I also condemn his refusal to object to the Police Department's decision, which is also a sign of bias. There can't be a double standard between two institutions. At the same time, it is as if the Security Directorate favours AKP (AKP), the Turkish Armed Forces, the General Command of the Gendarmes, which means that they have formed a police state and a special police force, and it is still a crime from that day forward, and the phones of all our citizens in Turkey are still being heard. And to the courts: Mr. Minister boasts all around: "Sir, we built courthouse buildings." Right, you built courthouse buildings, I thank you, but the courthouse buildings have become exactly the same commercial mall. For example, when you enter the courthouse in Çağalan, İstanbul, the parking fee begins at $5, $2, $2 from an hour, as we go to the Copperville Courthouse from morning to evening. One dollar for a water at the Falls Courthouse, 50 cents for an officer, 50 for a toilet attendant, $1 for a citizen. So it's really clear how much the courthouse looks like a mall when we look at it, away from giving out justice. The biggest event is that anyone who harms the state, or who harms the state, according to Article 5018, is responsible for it. Well, in the history of the Republic of Turkey until 2005 -- there are 110 lawyers in parliament -- all the money the court had invested in the banks under Article 32 of the Law of Harlament was interest-free, while during the Ministry of Justice they were invested in Akbank. After Akbank, when Akbank Holdings' tender was taken from Akbank, this time they were sent back to the Bank of Foundations, free of interest. So, what happened in the history of the Republic of Turkey in 2005... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...from the founding of the Republic to 2005, all the money from the courthouse to the 32nd Amendment...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0506par0798	Mr. Tanal, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0799	In the charter, if you'll give me a ruling regarding the speech...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0506par0800	Yeah, I'll read it right away. Please listen.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0801	Except for the general provisions. I don't want you to have to...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0506par0802	No, item 60. Look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0803	He is a general judge. There is no law in the Constitution concerning his youth.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0507par0804	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0506par0805	No, no, no. I'm sorry...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0806	That's the general rule. I'm not leaving here.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0506par0807	Don't make me take a break.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0808	And don't make me!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0506par0809	I'm reading the Civil Code, sir. Look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0810	Don't make me. You don't know!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0506par0811	No. You'll leave the podium.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0504par0812	You don't know. Take five.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit04spe0506par0813	I'm taking a break.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0506par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/7) We will resume our talks on whether or not the main number-generator motion will be raised. Government? He's in position. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Oğuz Oyan. Mr. Oyan, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0508par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're here today to discuss the general question we've given about the Minister of Justice in a country of injustice. In a country where injustice is a common rule, we will discuss it in a country where it is an illusion that there is a Ministry of Justice, which bears the name of the Ministry of Justice. Today, we're going to talk about how the ruling party censored it by smuggling the gene out of the community. My dear friends, one's rights and freedom have two basic foundations. One is freedom of rights and the other is the right to a fair trial. You can't have one without the other. Therefore, this must be observed in terms of all the claims, defences, and decision-making processes. This is in accordance with Article 36 of the Constitution, as well as in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Is that the case? Ask yourself. Another article of the Constitution states that no one can be considered guilty until the sentence of crime and punishment is fixed. Well, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking if it is. Let me give you an example, for example, that Izmir's Attorney General has declared the people involved in the investigation directly guilty in front of the press by disregarding the principle of innocence. What did you do? In this case, we Republican People's Party members, as Izmirian MPs, have filed a criminal complaint. What are you going to do about it? I'm sure you won't do anything. So when you're stuck with the Dink case right now, we can be sure that your proceedings against the prosecutor and the judge will not be valid here. Because Izmir is an operation, Izmir is an operation of your power. Therefore, the judge's action there is a militant act, Mr. Secretary. Now, again, the Constitution 38:...unlawful findings cannot be accepted as evidence. Is that so? Let's hear it for a conscience. Viruses have no conscience, ask your own! Who puts the viruses in the computer? I mean, really, the evidence obtained against the law, the illegal wiretaps, how can they be added to the indictments? What's the closest executive unit to oversee constitutional security? Department of Justice. Who is the executive body, which will ensure that laws in harmony with the Constitution are passed, that is, leaving legislation aside? Department of Justice. Do you know of such a Ministry of Justice, is there such a Ministry of Justice in Turkey? The Department of Justice has a law on the Agency and its duties and other laws to the Ministry of Justice. It is not only his laws that concern him, but the Ministry of Justice, who actually examines the laws set by other ministries in accordance with the Turkish legal system. He also has to examine it in terms of compliance with international contracts. So he's in charge in the first degree. So, if that's the case, if the Ministry of Justice is responsible, I ask you now: does it not tell you that justice in Turkey is an exception, a common rule of injustice, that the most important warnings regarding freedom of rights and violations in the field of fair trial come from the European Court of Human Rights? Moreover, the European Court of Human Rights included all democratic mechanisms of the European Union, other international media and freedom of expression organisations today. All at once, as a choir, they shout out the unjust departure in Turkey, Turkey is on a blacklist. Look, last week, the Organization of Journalists Without Borders placed Turkey 10 rows behind the world's media freedom index, but 10 digits behind it. What does that mean? It's a shame. Who is responsible for this disgrace? In a manner of speaking. My dear friends, Turkey's league is the bully state league, and this is a bully state league. So let's say you're in the 2nd set in terms of economics or something. As for this legal system, you can't even be in the third league as part of this justice mechanism; you're nothing more than a regime of oppression in a local cluster, which is entering into the Middle Easting process, outside of universal standards. Being Minister of Justice for such a regime is probably the most unfortunate thing in the name of democracy, and I wouldn't want to be in your shoes. According to the democracy index of The Economist magazine, Turkey is at the bottom of the European Union and OECD countries, even two digits behind Russia, two digits at the bottom of Putin Russia, so you don't lose the record to anyone. According to the AP report of Associated Press 2011, Turkey is competing with China in the ranking of countries who have used the Anti-Terror Law to convict or arrest the opposition on terror charges, which is the leading one! The most prisoners in the world in this respect are in these two countries! Another thing, according to Freedom House's report, is the 112th in 196 countries in freedom of the press. As of January 11, 2012, 99 journalists were arrested in Turkey. It is a shame that Turkey holds a sad record in the world in terms of the number of arrested journalists. Now -- I'm sure -- the minister's going to come to the stand, he's going to list three or five examples that he memorized in a chorus, and look, they're not journalists, they're actually members of a terrorist organization. He's going to tell us a story. Now, I, with just one example of this... the Republican People's Party of Lawmakers' articles on the Oda TV indictments, the comments on the stand, the research, the written question motions on the stand, if that's possible, just how you've handled a political case, how you've been trying to silence journalists, journalism and so on. In short, Erdogan's governments -- not only that, but the previous ones -- have condemned Turkey to hybrid democracy, but that's not enough -- the goal now, with the permission of Allah and better, is to go to the full authoritarian regime, so it's called terocratic fascism. My dear friends, this is what all the political trial processes show. There are similar discrepancies and legalities, even in terms of the KCK case. I'm asking you: while making their own Kurdish openings, setting up tent courts and making illegal decisions, not only illegal decisions, Erdogan's Government and its Justice ministers are now using the KCK case with what consistency, with what face, as a suppression, and perhaps as a means of negotiation. The elected mayors, journalists, are being tried as prisoners. What consistency is that, what face? No one tells us about judicial independence here. My dear friends, the disgrace in the Hrant Dink case is not the deep government, but the emergence of a mess that the visible state is in up to its neck. The visible state here... there's no deep government here. We see through the bureaucrats you've raised, you've raised; you're making the governor an undersecretary, then you're making the deputy, you're making the police chief governor, etcetera, and so on and so forth! It's so obvious, the whole thing, but everything's hidden. Oh, you want to throw him in an Ergenekon thing, too, if possible, but you can't go that far because if you try to mess with it, it's going to come down on you this time, because you're going to have to look in the mirror, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. This is an additional example of the creation of a dirty legal order as an incredible legal scandal. Look, as for the Ergenekon case, what kind of suppression tool, what kind of weapon is this, something the world knows, but I'd like to repeat it here once again. If there is no freedom of the press in a country, there is no democracy. It's because it's not a democracy today that special prosecutors can extend their courage to the MPs -- I just told you -- by violating Article 83 of the Constitution. My dear friends, it's because there is no state of democracy and law, even for the leader of the main opposition party, special prosecutors can hold false arguments, I'm talking political debates, not counterfeiting, I'll point out. My dear friends, therefore, here we are, facing the use of a judicial mechanism as a weapon of forming a new regime. Now, look, there's a Civil Code debate going on here, and in the Civil Code, the voice of opposition is being cut off. But it's not the first time. In fact, let me remind you that there was a amendment in 2003, when I was acting Group Chairman, there was a compromise. So the AKP's proposal was discussed among the groups -- there were two parties -- so we took out a settlement text. So, what's going on? So you're just gonna go back the whole time? Your advanced democracy has only reverse gear! What's that like? Now, this is a matter of the Civil Code, so don't you have any priors? There are eight elected MPs, where are they? International universal law was just enough for them to be here. Where are they? You're doing everything you can to keep them in custody, because you're threatening him. Who? You're trying to intimidate the MPs here, not this way, but this way. Here, you're trying to start a similar process for my dear friend Ilhan Cihaner, and we're not going to allow it, so be aware of that. My dear friends, the beginning of these attacks on lawmakers here demonstrates that the steps of law to the pre-constitutional order have been taken directly, as well as the return of law to the stone age. I, myself, personally, have filed a criminal complaint in this Chamber TV case indictment for my own writings, my own speeches, or the fact that I have a parliamentary research motion here. On October 26, 2011, there was no stable outcome, no futile waiting. In the same way, Mr. President, what are you going to do to the Speaker -- apply to the HSYK -- to defend the lawmakers? The answer is, don't throw it at the crown! I just, of course, talked to the Minister of Justice about it face to face, we were abroad. So you're the president of the HSYK, so what are you going to do when this comes before you, my criminal complaint, so how are you going to act on your conscience? I received an answer from Mr. Secretary saying that if such demands came to him, he would approve them. However, the apartments work independently of the Minister, so there is no interference. E said if he came to me, he'd sign with a positive opinion. He also said: "We as Minister are already in HSYK only to be beaten.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0509par0035	In the House...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0508par0036	So now, this insensitivity, this distortion, is mocking our intelligence, our intelligence, that's what you said, Mr. Secretary. Now, therefore, we are at the end of the line, my dear friends. In Turkey, we live in a period where justice is virtual, illegality is real. In fact, at the beginning of this, of course, at the top of it, I am the prosecutor of the Ergenekon case. The Prime Minister's non-democracy attitude certainly leads to his Minister, as does his special authorities, his prosecutor, his judge. So a prime minister's word is very different from any politician's word. If the Prime Minister says that, it will be heard and carried out. Of course, the day goes by to remind the Prime Minister of his role, so there are new examples. For example, Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's group speech on the trial was referred to as: "The group speech of Kilicdaroğlu is also the reason for today's group talk. " The Attorney General has spoken. The prosecutors say, "Get moving." So he gives the signal. I'll tell you something new, the last pearl: he's listening to your breathing, too, this nation said. My dear friends, do you remember in the 1960s Faruk Sukan, the Minister of Interior? We listen to the breath of the leftists. But it didn't have much value at the time, because, you know, the most, it's a wiretap mechanism. Now it's time to listen to the mood, etcetera. I mean, it's incredible! There's no personal, private life left. It's not the same. Oh, here he is listening to your breathing, folks. Who are they? We call it the unconditionalness of the nation. So, who's driving it? The separation of powers is over, so he's just on the run. Who's in charge of the executives? The Prime Minister, the nation, is equal to the Prime Minister. So he listens to your breathing. He says: "I am listening to your breathing!" He's giving his signal to her. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, of course, if the commander commands it, what will the Nefers do? For example, there are special officials in this country who can publicly accuse a watch judge who has decided to release and prosecute suspects without arrest. What did you do about it, what did you do about it? Go ahead, tell me. The judges who were convicted by Haberal are still on trial. What kind of legal mechanism is this? Well, dear friends, that's what happens when the Prime Minister becomes a prosecutor. Another standard works at the Lighthouse. So double standards are being tried there without arrest. Those who should be tried there are not on trial, but prosecutors are on trial. So you've literally turned the world upside down, the law is on its head. My dear friends, of course, what are you doing against all this? Is there anything forward? You bring in one thing, and the law on the effectiveness of judicial services is nothing more than an empty, artificial illusion. Now, I suppose you'll go out and tell me about it. That, in fact, does not relieve you of responsibility. Look, there's a country that's been run by a single party for ten years, and in this country, rights and rights of fair trial are sought to be brought down even further. Is that an example? The state secret law, the mediation law, the bill on the prevention of terrorism. If you just look at the state secret law, you'll see. He shouts that any information relating to the state secret law can be put into a bag of secret information and state secrets, a thick shawl covering the secrets of the government, not the government, or even the past, the past, the past, the past, and documents, can be kept secret, and can be kept secret. So now, there's a board, a board of undersecretaries. You object to the board's decisions, you appeal to the ministers of the undersecretaries, the senior board. So you cook it yourself, you eat it yourself. It's called building the only party on the basis of security; it's called creating a government-identified executive. Insurmountableness, irresponsibility, inability to accountability, is a suit of armor, so it's a desire to create a power that can't be dealt with. My dear friends, of course, the feeding of this state's dark power does not relieve you of responsibility. It won't save you from the responsibility that the government's privatisation of state secrets is banned from discussing Swiss accounts. You may be able to make the Ali Diboluks disappear today, but that won't save you from responsibility, my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Do you know who shows up today when you go in with Google and write about Ali Dibo? The sign, in front of you, is what it looks like. Go to Google in the summer and you'll see the Minister of Justice. I mean, a Minister of Justice like that would fit in with a Turkish government like that, of course. My dear friends of the Constitution... look, this Constitution itself in many ways, especially in 2010, in your last September 12th arrangements, has brought judicial regulations in many ways that are incompatible with the democratic state of law. So that you as Minister of Justice, that you continue, that the Attorney General remains a member of the Council of Justice, that judges and prosecutors are bound by the Minister of Justice for their administrative duties, that justice inspectors are in judicial control, that judges and prosecutors are in charge of their investigation, that the Minister of Justice, as HSYK head of investigation, all of which actually undermines the independence of the judiciary, and that the law, of course, is powered by such a constitutional arrangement. You don't apply the positive provisions of the Constitution, but you feed on negative provisions that violate judicial independence, and you stuff them in there. Political power condemns the judiciary, describing it as a bullet to democracy, and then makes it a united and self-expansion of the judiciary. When justice is created by law, justice is not required. Independence can't be expected when the law eliminates it. Today, the rematch mentality of power is AKP's martial law, the martial law of terrorism, the law of double standards in the Middle East, the rule of a major operation that has absorbed being the pawn of sovereign power in the Middle East and therefore turned to the tyrant state and began to clean up all opposition elements. This is the law of the Pentagon and Pennsylvania, my dear friends, the law of the Pentagon and Pennsylvania. Yes, at least listen to Oğuzhan Noble Turk. What he says is that the U.S. is behind the Ergenekon operation. My dear friends say. This is the transition from covered fascism to open fascism. You will not be able to declare this tyrannical state.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0510par0058	Mr. Oyan, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0511par0059	Mr. President, I'd like to clarify something for the record. As Mr. Speaker began his speech, he said our current geneorial talks were left at this hour, in order to be overlooked by the Turkish nation. Look, it's 13 o'clock today. The General Assembly opened at 00. At 13.32, three members of parliament ended their discussion of non-responsibility talks and research proposals. In order for this to be discussed before 1900, we have stopped the ministers from responding to non-responsibility talks so that the entire nation can see it before 1900. Our Minister of Justice asked us to make a great effort to get here before 1900, and that the ministers should not respond to talks about it. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] But right now, there's a huge injustice going on. Look, we started talking about group proposals at 13.30, and the group proposals only ended at 19.25. Our goal was to complete the group proposals at 4:00 p.m., and we'd like to discuss the general council on behalf of our entire nation, but...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0512par0064	No time, Mayor? So we have to listen to fairy tales? We don't have to listen to a story.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0511par0065	I'm afraid that's what we've done because the opposition abused the opportunity given them by the Civil Code. I'd like to say it in terms of statements.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0513par0067	One second... all right, all right... please, please... it's on the books, sir, I didn't promise. He's on the books. Here you go, if you have anything to say.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0514par0069	Look, Mr. President, by morning, the agenda has been set until 15 Martas. Don't work till 15 Martas in the morning. Between two and seven o'clock... don't you think you should turn down the voice of Parliament TV? You're lying to people in front of them. You're lying, you're lying.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0515par0070	You're lying.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0514par0071	Mr. President, how can you put up with this? I mean, if you've been making motions all morning, why are you keeping it a secret so you can see each other? Why are you kidnapping people? Why are you afraid of people? Don't do this, don't do this... he talks dirty on top of it, and you give him as much time as you want.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0516par0072	We gave you as much as you wanted. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0517par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0516par0075	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0517par0076	I'd like to make an important statement. Mr. Elitas has made a statement...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0516par0077	Yes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0517par0078	He just said that we didn't make them talk so the ministers wouldn't talk about the question motions.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0518par0079	You've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0517par0080	No, no, that's exactly what you said.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0519par0081	Answers, answers... yes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0517par0082	I want to know if you run this place, Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0520par0083	You didn't listen.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0519par0084	Sir, here's the thing, you know I...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0520par0085	You read the Civil Code some more. Mr. President doesn't invite ministers there, they go on their own.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0519par0086	Yes, sir. Mr. Ministers, if they want a word, it's our decision, and we have nothing to say to those who don't want to talk about it. Mr. Commander, come in, sir. Excuse me. Your time is starting again. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0521par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear members, there has been a debate between Mr. Speaker of the Main Opposition Party and the ruling party. I'm going to start here a little bit on the whole religious thing, and I'll sort out my own voice. He's walking on the wrong axis, and I want to come to justice from here. According to the Quran, there is no distinction between the believers and the nonbelievers, nor is there a distinction between the religious peoples, nor is it a matter of faith, it does not contain a battleline, it is a category of faith. The Qur'an creates a line called "the oppressors" and "the oppressed" and the struggle is essentially a struggle between the wrongdoers and the oppressed, the right-doers and the wrong-doers. Because in religion, you can't force anyone to believe, or detain them when they leave, but there's a clear sign: "There is only hatred for the oppressors." He has determined a line of struggle. Well, how's that possible? What size is this? The measure of this is indeed by observing the sense of justice, whether or not justice has shown itself to us or not. Now, on this occasion, we find it unnecessary to address the Minister's personal performance or personal performance through the ministry's activities. Because there's one thing we all need to understand, and that's this. It's a system issue. When Faruk didn't know about the system, he must have missed that he was also a minister in the Third Ecevit government, when he was critical of the system. Now, but if you see this as a system issue, you'll also understand that it's not a permanent matter with individuals. There's a common concept: the politicalisation of the judiciary. I would like to point out a new conceptual view inspired by Radical Author Ali Topoz, which is the judicialisation of politics. • Under all this chaotic situation today, there is either judicialisation or judicialization of politics. What does that mean first? Then what are the consequences? Why should we object? With that dignity, I'd like to say a few words. The relationship between politics and law is a very frugal relationship, intersecting from many places, knotting together. Judgement is one of the most important feet of this knot. Problems in this area are discussed within the framework of judicial independence in Turkey. The ruling should be independent, politics should not interfere with the judiciary. Of course, the word "judgment is generally independent" by the rulings, and the opposite is said for the opposition, and the debate goes on under the title "politicisation of its judgment." Judgement shouldn't be politicalized, yes, it's clear that it's dangerous, it's damaging the sense of justice, it's going to destroy its sense of justice, but today there's a more dangerous problem, not the politicalisation of the judiciary, but the judicialisation of politics. What happens if politics becomes judicial? To answer, we must first look at the functioning and possibilities of politics and judgment. Dear friends, judgment is a two-pronged scheme. It usually results in the conviction or acquittal of one of the parties of this trial, which means the other side wins the case. That's the primary issue for judgment. Now we've either called an acquittal or a conviction, or a postponement of the verdict, or other things don't pass up those two options. Also, another feature -- there are valuable lawyers among us -- is that the trial is undated. I mean, every case -- to make it look like a game -- starts again, like a game, there's no such thing as the one who was innocent before, and there's no such thing as the one who was convicted before, or the one who was convicted again, so it starts again in every case. So, what's the difference between politics and this? Politics has three consequences, friends, and it has to be. Political parties, like war, win or lose in the matter of politics being run on armed vehicles, but in any case, a contract, including war, must bind the situation with a text of reconciliation. Parliamentary regimes are regimes based on the basis of reconciliation, otherwise they go to war. So the most fundamental difference between politics and the judiciary is that one has a two-probability outcome, the other has a third outcome, so it's a compromise. That's the third option you've lost, my friends, when you put politics on trial, when you judge politics. If we don't see it as a system issue like the discrepancy of today's government or the inconsistencies that are being uploaded to the government from this area today, they can be weighed at the same time. Then you'll just object to his actors. You wouldn't have said anything about the solution to the matter itself and therefore. From our criticism here, it should be a matter of bringing this third opportunity here at the beginning of the results and lessons that both the Minister of Justice and the government must draw from this. So, is there any hope? We're just looking at the ruling party's sense of justice in this matter, the sense of justice in this matter we're discussing, it's really hard to be optimistic about it. I'm not talking to a cow. Sometimes it's enough to repeat what's going on to see how ridiculous it is. It's a matter of... the land that contains the world's most ancient cultures, the world's wisest men have come out of here, in civilization, in world civilization, in stone upon stone, a kinship with this land. So, how did they solve these issues? Either way, by partnering and transforming. Now, in this case, the fact that power can't tolerate the exclusive, non-counter, the slightest appearance of any opposition has now become such a spiral that the cause and outcome of the problems that have happened today has become both as a result and as a result. It's a matter of cooperation. I know you care about Islamic references. If we have to do an analogy here, we have to approach it like the Hacerul Esved case. Four tribes fell to great lengths in the matter of who put that stone there. The way the holy Muhammad solves the matter can set an example for today's problems. He put it on a rag -- his own cardigan, or the sweater of another rancher, and the representatives of the four tribes who were on the side of it, he held it to each one at the end. One of the golden keys to the solution to today's problems should be to combine the issue. If we don't do this, this monotheist, this idea of judgment, this tendency to be authoritarian, believe me, the power itself won't bring any good. God knows the future, you can't plan the future, tomorrow the next day something happens -- the history of this country has seen 50 percent of its history -- tomorrow you'll see the winds blowing in the places of this reign. But there's an opportunity, there's a fear and a representation that can solve this matter. The mother of all problems is the war on this issue, and in all these operations in the judiciary, the main reason for these operations, which have been made into a mosquito net like this, is the Kurdish issue, which seems to be getting further and further away from the solution, which is a bleeding wound in the middle. I'm telling the members of the entire House. Here, when the news of death came -- not much, not two or three months ago -- we all began our talks with a wish of mercy. What happened? The apocalypse broke today -- and so it continues -- let's say that the news of death has been diluted, with its power and its opposition to the entire Assembly, and let's take a look at it while there's such a cool atmosphere ready for it. Tomorrow it will happen again the day after tomorrow, every day after tomorrow it will begin here wishing for mercy, there will be great boner, great injury, and that climate issue in front of the solution will go away as far as possible. Now, the Justice Department has an offer. And believe me when I say this to the opposition, and believe me, nobody, I have nothing to create a polemic out here like this, but we're down with a double standard, to underline that. It's a law against financing terrorism. I'm a member of the Internal Affairs Commission, and at the same time, he came to us as a commission. I've had such an understanding, I'm telling you, that's how I got hurt. Why? Opposition parties assumed it was aimed at Kurds, and they did not participate in many of the objections we expressed in the Interior Commission. Let's face it, there were some things they were objecting about...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0522par0106	Basically, we're against it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0521par0107	But there was an incident when these operations became common, and this is what I call a system issue, and we can get into it. The feeling came and settled. If a gene is to be given a gene, for example, one of the most critical applications of this should be called the introduction of the law on financing this terrorism. He's coming to the General Assembly the day after tomorrow. What's going on here? Again, an approach that aims primarily at Kurds, but can't be prevented from throwing all opposition into that bag. All universal law criteria are being ignored. The only thing that the BDP may have changed in a commission was that I also objected on its behalf, and there was a huge lack of carelessness in the financing of terrorism, such as the financing of Kemalism, the financing of communism, the financing of socialism, the financing of feminism. They didn't even pay attention to his translation. The United Nations Convention, as it is, is enforced by all countries committed to this commitment, but what do we do in our own country? One, the definition of terrorism was made in that contract with all the details of the United Nations contract, and we were referred to the Anti-Terror Law. You're digging around a little bit, why is it made like this? We're looking at a statement in the United Nations that means opposition or option, because according to the United Nations, the PKK is not considered a terrorist organization, it is considered a fighting organisation. The world has formed a partnership around this concept. In that case, they refer to TMK. We are also looking at the state that TMK is in, and there is no one who doesn't complain about it, including the government, but they don't hold back a bit from implementing it. We're in the process of a new constitution, but isn't it that the issue of the judicialisation of politics condemns us to those two choices, ignoring compromise? So, what are you going to do with such a monogamous understanding? May 27th, March 12th, September 12th and so on, you'll do whatever it takes. A board of lawless bureaucrats will be authorized to freeze the issue of assets. Even so, it's possible that a government in this country could plant fig trees on someone's stove if they wanted to, because it's someone who's been affected by the government in the last test we call it, not necessarily by the government. Third, there are freaks who say that the fund is not required to be used in a terrorist activity. I mean, you... that means that when we look at it like this, it sounds like an incomprehensible sentence. That means that if any of them, as opposed to any healthy chain, are involved in this bag, they're going to refer to it as a direct terrorist activity. There is another challenge waiting for all opposition municipalities: Public use of influence is also considered under that heading. What does that mean? This is, if you hired someone, and it has anything to do with any illegal organization, you're going to be treated like you've just financed terrorism. These are very exemplary in terms of where justice is coming from in this country. The Dink case. The state does not have an organisation in this regard. It means that the state will take the blame for the murder, but at one point, no one noticed. The person who got the ticket, the person who got the ticket, got fined for throwing bombs at a hamburger company. The life of an Armenian citizen here wasn't as valuable as an American burger company. You can't touch the burger man, but you can kill the Armenian, you can persecute the Kurdish, you can deal with the oppressed. So, how did he end up like this? Special authority tribunals with weirdness. I say this as a man who was tried in martial law courts on September 12th -- I didn't think I'd say this from here, I didn't think I'd die -- that September 12th would send the fascist martial law courts to mercy -- independent of judges, the system itself -- fun and ridiculous, and tomorrow, a lot of funny but tragic stories are being made the subject of the film. Dear Regents, I especially want to address the AK PARTY MPs, and today, will you take a look at the freaks in the KCK case? In his native language, he can't defend his lullaby, sing his song in the first language he hears from his mother, the Kurd is deprived of it, but they give the Arabic speaker this opportunity. What's this? How far does it go? This is not a matter of politicalisation of the judiciary, it's a matter of judicialization of politics. Your policy is to put a field on the shoulders of the judiciary. It's not a minister's job and responsibility, it's a system issue. This Congress -- I said that in my first speech in this House -- can bring peace, it can do that. The way we do this, the energy we have on all of this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it is possible that the Parliament, which has not taken any initiative in this matter, has taken the initiative. It's a new practice, there's this thing called enemy criminal law -- it's being invented in the Nazi era -- it's getting close to all the issues with the concepts of enemy criminal law. My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0523par0122	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Congressman Faruk Bal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0524par0126	Mr. President, I'm here to share with you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on Mr. Sadullah Ergin, the esteemed lawmakers. I salute the grand jury. There's been a lot of tension in the House since morning. This is a serious matter. The concept we call justice is a universal value. So in order to assess its primordial state in Turkey, I would like to start with the legal arrangements, especially so that AKP lawmakers can analyze the matter as far away from the tension as possible. My dear friends, valued MPs, Turkey is a country ruled by parliamentary democracy. In parliamentary democracies, there is a principle between legislation, executive and judicial bodies that we call the separation of peoples, and in accordance with this principle, the mechanisms of balance and control between the forces have been created. This is the judiciary that will essentially carry out control duties in the balance and control mechanisms. So the Supreme Assembly makes a decision, makes a law, and the Supreme Court is the Supreme Court, which will oversee its compliance with the Constitution. The government is subject to the rule of law in all business and transactions, and it is the Court of State that will do so, the administrative courts. On the other hand, the general courts and the Supreme Court decide on the demands of the citizen's rights and fair trial, and when we evaluate all of these decisions, we call them democracy based on the rule of law. So, this is what we're talking about, and we need to consider the situation that we're going to share in the process of justice that has become a regime issue. My dear friends, within this system, within the parliamentary democracy, the Justice Department is tasked with examining the fitness of all legislation in the Turkish legal system. On what? The Ministry of Justice is under Article 1 of the Law on the Agency and its duties. Again, the Ministry of Justice is tasked with examining all laws according to the same Article of the Law, if they are in accordance with the Turkish lawmaking technique. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice is directly responsible for all legal provisions that have made this judiciary, including constitutional amendments, directly within the framework of its own agency law. At the same time, the Minister of Justice is under the pursuant to the responsibility provided by the special responsibility and responsibility of the law provided by other ministries, according to Article 112 of the Constitution. Of course, it's not limited. In addition to this constitutional framework, this regime's responsibilities, it is also the duty and responsibility of the Minister of Justice to create an environment that can create satisfaction by making all the data related to the search for justice, one of the two fundamental grounds of justice we call a citizen's search for justice. The Ministry of Justice is also responsible for implementing what we call a fair trial. So, when we put it together, the responsibility of Mr. Ergin, the Minister of Justice, who has been given a general question about him, is both legal and conscientious, both alcoholic and divine. Let's take a look at Mr. Secretary's condition of justice, which we're going to try to examine together. My dear friends, during the ten-year period of AKP power -- including Mr. Minister's term -- the constitutional changes in the first place were created by the changes in the constitution, by the genetics of the parliamentary democracy that I had just described, and by the way of a freakic presidential system that resembles a dictatorship, without control over the legislation and executive body of the judiciary. The name of an unsupervised legislature is defined in constitutional law and is defined as a legislative body, even if it is a democracy. An unsupervised execution is a dictate organ. So the Minister of Justice has a responsibility within the framework that I've just described in the opening of these dictatorial organs and the opening of the Dicta door, and that responsibility must be discussed in this great Parliament. My dear friends, the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice is not only with constitutional changes, but also with legal regulations. The Ministry of Justice has politicised the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors in parallel with constitutional amendments, and has established a judicial order that is supposedly able to look at justice with one eye. Thus, as the judiciary's balance and control mechanisms within itself have been eliminated, the power of the judiciary to control the legislative body, to oversee the executive body of the judiciary has been neutralized, and the problem has become a regime problem, when we look at it from the perspective of justice in terms of the door to the dictatorship. The Ministry of Justice, which is not content with the amendments of the Constitution with its legal regulations, has begun to present justice in accordance with the laws of the law. My dear friends, the only person who decides on behalf of the Turkish nation and judges on their own sex is the judge, and the only organ is the forensic organ. Therefore, the kidnapping of the state's will and the organization of the Council of Ministers, which is politicized by the will of the AKP (AKP), by the will of the nation, has resulted in the escape of the national will and the injustices it will bring to the nation, Mr. Justice Minister is directly responsible for its escape and its injustices. My dear friends, not only that, but the Constitution, the regulations, the laws, the decrees of the law, an unconstitutional situation has arisen, a number of altars that we don't know what they're called, but they're running a trial, and they're creating public opinion. These were created by a parallel judicial body, which we watched on TV every day, every night under the name......, who used to preach about the cases that were being seen, announced about them weeks ago when they were going to be arrested, and, after a few weeks, gave birth to the arrest result of those people. This is done by what we call the fourth force, which can contribute to the development of the nation's conscience, which is what we call the press. So these media groups have been led to justice with their biased publications, where the evidence that has not yet reached the court is being discussed, where people who have not been investigated have been declared guilty, where one of them is a judge, one of whom is acting as a prosecutor, and so on, what we call a public conscience, this section is unclean, this lie, this slanderer, this misdemeanor, those who pretend to act as a court of law. Is there justice here, fellas? Mr. Secretary, what kind of justice is this when we evaluate it with your understanding of justice here? It is expected of you to fulfill the law against those who do so. But what are you doing? What you're doing, Mr. Secretary, is you're bringing in a covert amnesty law to ensure that the press-release organizations, which have been prosecuted for publishing like this, will be removed from justice. You call it justice reform. That's not justice, that's not justice! My dear friends, this is a human rights violation, and in the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights -- which are directed by the publications of the press-journalists with 5,000 to 6,000 cases against you in the future -- Turkey will convict. You allow these things to be cleared of the obstacles in front of you, your political beliefs, just to be supportive. In spite of what? Even though there's a sense of justice. In spite of what? Despite the removal of the right to a fair trial written in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. So you're responsible for this, Mr. Secretary; you're both legally responsible, Mr. Secretary, you're responsible for your conscience, you're responsible for your drinking, and you're responsible for your revelations. In the future, Mr. Secretary, when God's time comes, when you go to the afterlife, you will be held accountable for them. My dear friends, how did the judgment come to this? With a constitutional amendment, the Supreme Court's Law, the Constitutional Court's Law, the State's Law, the HSYK Law, the law that you've changed, that you've intimidated non-components, that you've replaced, that you've divided the judiciary into a part of the carrot-sopian role, that you've taken into your own hands. Those supporters, I'm sure, are now making the decisions that Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, is uncomfortable with, in the name of justice. My dear friends, this looks like a Jurassic Park monster. There's a certain story. In that story, it's like the monsters created on an island by a scientist who wanted to resuscitate ancient animals using genetic technology. And now you will, of course, account for the fact that you, from the President to the Prime Minister to the Minister of Justice, to the Deputy Prime Minister, have been troubled by the decisions they've made, conflicting with the public conscience, unrequited by the public conscience, and creating a judgment that ensues a sense of justice. My dear friends, the situation has come to this point, and the problem of the judiciary in Turkey has now become a human rights issue and a problem of democracy and regime, but the current judiciary, which has turned into a regime problem, has hurt the citizens as well. Look who is hurt: the judiciary is used as a weapon by the aide judges; it is used as a weapon without a silencer; it is used as a weapon to silence your decisions, a weapon that explodes in a strong way, and when it explodes, it is used in public as a weapon to silence your beliefs. You're operating on 131 municipalities of the National Movement Party. On the conscience of your operation against the 131 National Movement Party mayor, people who have morally accused themselves of being there are crushed under it, and İbrahim Ekici, who was thrown into prison by the verdict of the trial used as the weapon in Eregli, commits suicide! You hear that from me. In the Eregli operation, a six-seven-month-old operation to Ereğli Municipality, a number of men arrive in police presence, raiding the mayor's home, the home of his relatives, the house of the council members, and everyone in his neighborhood, accusing the mayor of immoral, dishonest accusations against his daughter -- that girl is currently receiving psychological treatment -- and leaving the municipality with her papers. What happened? It's okay. Until when? Nothing until the June 12th election; the papers are gone, they're stuck with the printers. Those guys are coming back 15 days before the June 12th election. I can't call them cops. I do appreciate the neutral members of the law enforcement force, of course, but I appeal to those who have infiltrated them and acted militantly on a special mission, and I complain from here to the High Council. They're taking back their homes, city officials, etcetera, and they're in there for four days, no questions asked. On the fourth day they question them all at night, and in the morning they say, "You are free." Where's the justice in that, Minister? Where's the right, where's the law? What kind of government would that be? My dear friends, this judgment hurts, and the nation hurts your conscience, and burns your hearts where it touches you. My dear friends, it's not over; there's the Mayor of the Lady Inn. One night after the morning prayer, they raid the mayor's house, search his house for three and a half hours, then walk to the prosecutor's office. So, if this mayor was to be released, if he had no guilt, no sin -- and I'm sure he didn't -- how can he be discredited in front of voters who voted for women using the state's police as weapons? How, therefore, can justice be used to discredit the esteemed mayors of the National Movement Party, which is AKP's favorite? There's an Engin Alan, an honorable Turkish officer who's engaged in the National Movement Party. We learned from the Prime Minister about the crime of Engin Alan, and you can see where he is because he did not rise at the official ceremony in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0525par0154	It's very important, very important.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0524par0155	Where? In Silivri. My dear friends, at that time, you, Ottoman prosecutors and judges in accordance with the poem written by the Ottoman governor, who, by the name of the Naibilivri, were able to appoint an honorable Turkish officer in his presence on the grounds that he did not stand up at the Prime Minister's ceremony, as instructed by the Ottoman Governor. My dear friends, this is not just an injustice to the National Movement Party. This has become a problem of the state's political regime based on parliamentary democracy of the Republic of Turkey. This is the issue of justice created by universal values, and you, Mr. Secretary, are responsible for the fall of the new custody office that threatens this regime. This responsibility, of course, will not be justified here by the great Clave's fingers. So the outcome of the AKP lawmakers' no-no vote will not expose your irresponsibility. As I said at the beginning, you are responsible in front of the law, after which you are responsible for politics against the people, and in the end, you are in charge of the court of the Magistrate Zulcelal. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0526par0160	Thank you, Mr. Honey. The fourth speaker is İstanbul MP Mustafa Sentop on behalf of the AK PARTI Group. Mr. Sentop, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0164	Mr. President, I'm here to speak on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the motion they made against Mr. Sadullah Ergin, who claims that İzmir MP Oğuz Oyan and 59 lawmakers have not met the requirements of duty and responsibility and have not made the necessary effort to preserve judicial independence. On behalf of myself and my group, I salute you all. Dear friends, of course, it may seem possible to address the issues of the judiciary in the court of justice, but the gene is, if you'll notice, a motion given to Mr. Minister himself by some of the judicial practices involved in it and within it. So I don't find it absurd to approach the issues of the judiciary here. It's convenient, it's true, but it would be more appropriate to focus on Mr. Minister's position of responsibility for judicial issues here. I'm going to try to explain why we don't support the agenda of this motion by acting on the fundamental issues in the motion for the gene. Dear friends, there are outlines and improvements of the motion for the geneorization. So here's the summation of three things. The first is that the Minister of Justice has the authority to study the laws and regulations made by other ministries, not only on matters of his own ministry, but also on the laws and regulations that are made by other ministries, and this is the first issue in which the Constitution does not take into account a number of law regulations concerning fundamental rights and freedoms that are contrary to international agreements or are incompatible with the softer expression, which are not sensitive to them, so it does not carry out a responsibility that has been imposed on him over the rules of law. The second issue is that the task of auditing justice services has not been carried out. However, when we look at it carefully, such an accusation is made to Mr. Secretary, especially because he has authority over judicial activities. It's been expressed here, and it's in the genotype text. Here, it is said that, in the judicial department of the Constitution, the Ministry of Justice has been given a task and responsibility different from other ministries of the Ministry of Justice, given the duties given to the Ministry of Justice and HSYK -- and the links to the Ministry of Justice -- in regard to the Constitutional Ministry of Justice, as well as to other ministries. There is also talk about the responsibility of the Justice Ministry for the administrative duties of judges and prosecutors. I'll get to that. This, of course, is based on the authority and authority of the Minister for judicial action on judges. We will read the 144th article of the Constitution together.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0528par0168	He does not say from the direction of judgment, he says from the direction of judgment.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0169	The third issue is that in recent years, Turkey has had a number of trial activities, implementation and legislation problems... of course, there is no concreteness, there are abstract generalizations. He's made some concrete points, my friends, and we'll answer them. And, of course, there's a history of this, uh, gene-proposal motion. On January 3rd, Mr. Oğuz Oyan and his friends again have a motion to grant the Parliamentary Speakership. It's not processed because it's specific, it's named, it's related to a particular case, it involves certain issues. The Constitution is clearly in violation of Article 138, so it has not been processed. So I have to say, this motion is a little bit more developed than that, which means it's been translated into a motion that can be processed. Now, dear friends, see here, first of all, that the Ministry of Justice has the authority, of course, to prepare the legislation for the Agency and its duties, to evaluate the preparations for the law, especially the preparation of the law from other ministries, to examine it. We'd be happy to state that this mission was carried out by the Ministry. Look, there's an investigation done by the Ministry in accordance with the Turkish legal system and law-making technique. The ministry is expressing its views on the law. Here, of course, as a result, the law passes through the House. We should all know in what areas are they evaluated in violation of the fundamental rights and freedom agreements, as a result of the Constitutional compliance and the sending of the Constitution. If there are provisions under law and law, they are again supervised in accordance with international agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms in accordance with the Constitutional Court's reference to the Constitutional Court. If there are regulations, regulations, they're being audited by the State. So it's not right here to argue that the Ministry's responsibility for drafting legislation has not been fulfilled because there are other monitoring mechanisms within the legal system. What's the real situation? Since 2002, there have been many developments in Turkey, and on the one hand, there have been huge developments and changes in the field of law. There's no way to count all this. We can talk about a lot of basic laws here. Many fundamental laws in the early years of the Republic have been renewed, coming to us as a new text of the law. Laws on criminal reform, Turkish Penal Code, Penal Code, Execution Act, Turkish Law of Debts, Turkish Trade Law, Law of Law of Laws, and Law of Laws, are also held in this period, in addition to many fundamental laws, many areas that have not been regulated by law in Turkey. Of course, I won't go into the details of all this. I'll stay on two important points. One of them is: Look, in 2004, in Turkey, there was a major reformary constitutional amendment in the field of law. When a conflict between international agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms and laws has occurred in Article 90 of the Constitution, a clear constitutional decree on the implementation of contract provisions has been passed on the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0529par0175	Is he sleeping? Is it being used? Is there a minister?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0176	In many of these laws -- we can all say that our legislation is very disorganized -- it will ensure that international provisions regarding fundamental rights and freedoms do not apply. In a sense, it's a revolutionary arrangement that will allow it to be removed from force, covered in sand. We can also discuss whether this is reflected in our application. It has its dimensions to a little bit of law culture, a little bit of judge culture, judge sociology. But this arrangement is a very important provision in the Turkish legal system, which was brought in 2004, during the AK PARTI rule. Another regulation: Here he reminiscent of this negatively, specifically, friends, but constitutional amendments adopted by the September 12, 2010 referendum are also a crucial step in the independence of the judiciary and the democratic legitimacy of the judiciary. Dear friends, HSYK, you know, has previously been formed by the majority of members appointed by high court judges. Of the five members of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors of seven, three were from the Supreme Court, two from the Court, and one from the Council of Ministers and Undersecretary. Now, a structure like this has two dimensions. On the one hand, we're looking at the possibility that such a board of few members could be on the run with the discovery of the minister and the undersecretary. Criticisms were directed at the former HSYK. But on the other hand, let's not forget that the HSYK majority, determined by judges in the Supreme Courts, is a serious problem of representation by judges and prosecutors. The European Union monitoring reports repeatedly show that every year, the minister and the undersecretary are present in the Council, as well as that the judges and prosecutors in particular are not represented in the pure sense. And with the September 12, 2010 referendum, I'm going to have to come up with some sort of criticism that's actually being held here. The structure of the HSYK, along with the September 12, 2010 referendum, has been set in line with European standards. It's from 22 members. One is Mr. Minister of Justice, Minister of Justice of HSYK, who is also a member of the Undersecretary's office, and the rest, along with members of the Supreme Court and the Court of Prosecutors, which are based on the votes of judicial judges and prosecutors from the judicial judiciary and administrative judiciary. The number of high-judgment judges here in Turkey was very small. These were approximately one out of twenty and one of the judges and prosecutors in Turkey. Those who served in first-degree courts had a great deal of weight, a lot of weight. That majority was supposed to be reflected in the board. At Turkey's September 12, 2010 referendum, the judge, who served in the first-degree courts with the Supreme Court, had shown us that there was a conflict between judges and prosecutors if the picture appeared to be a conflict between the judiciary and the government, before the referendum of 12 September 2010, was later created by the Supreme Judges' Council, which was appointed in the appointment of judges and prosecutors' High Court. The transition between the first-degree judges and prosecutors to high courts provided many of them with criteria that could be explained with ideological criteria. In that sense, there was a difference between the decisions made by local courts and the decisions made by the Supreme Courts, and the HSYK, in fact, was not aware of the situation until this referendum was approved on September 12, 2010. We've seen this in many cases when judges and prosecutors were dismissed in their ongoing cases. Now, we said that this new arrangement, dear friends, provides European standards. Of course, I'd like to briefly talk about what European standards are. Now, of course, we are judged by the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors that the presence of the Minister of Justice, the discovery of the Undersecretary, is a major flaw, a violation of judicial independence. Here, first of all, let me say a few things in action from our legislation: Mr. Secretary here had 1/7 votes in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Undersecretary had 1/7 votes. When it was turned into 22 people, when we looked at the sum here, it had 1/22 votes in terms of the General Assembly account.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0530par0183	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0184	So the game effect he used was reduced by one third, that's one. Secondly, the minister's... the new HSYK's basic decisions are now made in circles; the appointment decisions are made by working in circles in disciplinary procedures. An open sentence in the Constitution... may be the missing point when the minister is burdened with responsibility in this regard. There is an open sentence in the Constitution: the minister cannot participate in the works of the apartments. He only participates in General Assembly activities, one. Secondly, this is in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Law: (The Minister cannot attend meetings on disciplinary procedures in the General Assembly, cannot vote here.) The right of the Minister to vote in the appointment of judges, transfers, transfers, disciplinary procedures has been blocked by this new regulation. The minister's job is to represent, he has administrative authority. Look, there's been talk of the Minister, the judge and the prosecutors' commitment to the Ministry from an administrative point of view, and there's a motion for a gene. Let's look at Article 144, where there is no mention of judges or judges. It's called the Ministry of Justice for judicial services and administrative duties of prosecutors. Because the Minister has no influence on the control of judges, and he has no administrative influence. For prosecutors, such authority is granted by the Constitution. The audit of the judges, the investigations, the investigations, all sorts of judges, the audits of their judicial activities -- I say in terms of disciplinary procedures -- is held by the relevant department of the Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council, and the General Assembly is discussed in case of an appeal. So, dear friends, we can understand that this HSYK, the new HSYK, is a very advanced step in the field of judicial independence compared with its examples in Europe. Let me put it this way, of course, not in HSYK, the Minister of Justice, but in other words, if that's what you're saying, let's not be in HSYK as a political figure. You're saying that the Minister of Justice is not in HSYK. Then the politicians -- elected politicians -- or they're in all the countries of Europe. Look, France entered with the model that started in 2011, is there a Minister of Justice? No. Yes, that's right, there's no Minister of Justice, but six members of the 15-member delegation are determined by politicians, two of them by the President, two by the Senate President, two by the Speaker of Parliament. For example, the Dutch example... in the September 12th referendum, the study of many of the friends who opposed this arrangement, says: "There is a 5-man council in Holland, there is no Minister of Justice on this board. " It is true, if you are looking at it that way. So, how do you determine five people? Of the five, the Minister of Justice recommends them, and the King casts them. There's no Minister of Justice, but he's one of those people he recommended. Wherever we look next... look, there are 27 members in Italy, the President is the chairman of the board, and 8 of the 26 remaining people are elected by Parliament. There are 21 members in Spain, the Supreme Court's President elects eight of the remaining 20. The Senate and Parliament chooses eight of the remaining 20. Many examples are possible to replicate them. Dear friends, in this regard, the new structure of the HSYK is a very advanced step in ensuring judicial independence. The minister's powers in the HSYK, particularly in judicial activities, disciplinary procedures, appointments, transfers, have been completely eliminated in this new arrangement. Another issue has been mentioned here in recent years, of course, in Turkey, where trust in law and state has been shaken -- some practices. Dear friends, Turkey's judicial problems are not new. The judicial system, created after 27 May 1960 in Turkey, was designed to be completely devoid of democratic legitimacy. In a 50-year period, Turkey was facing a judicial system that worked with a completely undemocratic, intrinsic caste system, especially in the appointment and in transition to high judiciary. There was talk of independence of the judiciary. Independent...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0194	So you're the one who made it legitimate, huh?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0195	Beyond the independence of the judgment, Mr. Attila...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0196	You've made it legitimate, have you?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0532par0197	Do you believe what you're saying?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0198	Mr. Attila, finish your work on the bill, the difference of proposals, and then talk.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0199	You brought ideology, ideology, not legitimacy.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0200	Now, as we looked at the old structure of the HSYK, there was an irresponsibility beyond the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. Judgement is set up that doesn't answer to anyone.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0201	You've judged politics.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0202	Along with the HSYK, the new HSYK has been freed from the full execution of the judiciary and interference of unregistered political centers. Now, the European Court of Human Rights has made decisions regarding Turkey. Of course, we have to consider the process here, folks. The conclusion of a case in Turkey has been in the European Court of Human Rights for approximately five years...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0204	Tell me about the Ramazan Akyreks, Mr. Sentop, the Ramadan Akyreks.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0205	... Decisions are being made around the same time.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0206	Can you tell me about the Ramadan Whitehearts?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0207	Most of the decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights against Turkey have been concluded ten years ago, first of all in Turkey's cases.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0208	Can you tell me about the party officials, the parish officials?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0209	Other than that, the majority of the decisions made regarding the right to a fair trial are related to the length of long trial.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0210	Tell me if there's justice where the party officer is, and give me his answer.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0211	There are few decisions on the length of their imprisonment because the European Court of Human Rights decides based on concrete events.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0212	Where there's a parish officer, is there justice?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0213	Regarding the special authorities, friends, I can't get into too much detail, my time is running out, and the law order was passed in 2004 with the support of Republican People's Party MPs. There's only one separate motive.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0531par0214	Ramazan, answer the Whitehearts, answer them.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0527par0215	Other than that, a positive vote was cast on this arrangement. These are the types of courts that are similar in many European countries. Dear friends, with a new constitution, a new law culture, and judge culture, I believe this problem may be overcome. New constitution studies... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all on behalf of my group and myself.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0533par0219	You're sabotaging the new constitution, blocking it, Mr. Sentop, blocking new Constitutional studies.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0534par0220	Thank you, Mr. Sentop. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, Mr. Sadullah Ergin, Minister of Justice. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0225	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion to ask about my person. I salute the General Assembly, the esteemed members. First of all, I'd like to make a technical assessment of your gene. Although our predecessor, our Dear Teacher, spoke before me, has done a very healthy analysis of this, but I'm being charged with two ground charges on my part regarding the geneor presented to the Speaker of Parliament, which we're interviewing today. One of them, Justice Minister Judges and Prosecutors, is the President of the High Council of Justice, so there have been some assessments that the judges and prosecutors are in charge of the Ministry of Justice, that the Justice Department is in charge of overseeing justice services, and that the laws and proposals that other ministries have drawn up have come to Parliament in view of the Ministry of Justice, and that the Minister of Justice has a different responsibility in law than the other ministers, and that this responsibility does not meet the requirements, and that a number of obligations from the European Convention on Human Rights should be compiled by sending the Constitution 90 through the Constitution. Appreciation, of course, belongs to valuable lawmakers who draft the motion, but when we look at the basic articles of legislation, execution, the work, and the responsibilities of the judges, I think we should consider the position of the Minister of Justice, a representative of the executive body. First of all, the Ministry's agency law has been assessed and identified as part of the motion for missions that have been submitted to our side...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0536par0230	Why were the Lighthouse prosecutors dismissed?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0231	...but there are draft drafts of the law prepared in the first place. It is called the Ministry of Justice before it is presented to the Prime Minister. That's right, except this view isn't binding. The draft legislation, however, is not according to the Minister of Justice's request, nor according to his opinion. Many bills, laws proposals have come to this Parliament, these proposals and proposals have taken other forms in the commissions, and there has been serious differences between the motions and the intervention of our MPs in parliament and the bill that came in, and the law that came out. Again, if we look at the current laws, the Minister of Justice's ability to be held responsible for the legislative activity means that on behalf of the Turkish nation, we do not see the ruling that the legislative authority is in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, because it is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, not the Minister of Justice or the Ministry. On the other hand, the fact that the Minister of Justice has been held responsible for the work and actions of the judicial authorities under the use of judicial authority is in violation of the regulation in Article 138 of our Constitution, with the ruling that the jurisdiction of our Constitution on Article 9 shall be used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation. Expecting the Minister of Justice to do what is necessary in the matters set forth in the genre is the same as asking him to intervene in the judiciary.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0537par0235	You don't have to interfere with the judiciary, the judge is already doing what you order and instructions!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0236	In my opinion, there are some sentences in the gene question that can also be perceived as a question of why the Minister of Justice has not interfered with the ongoing investigations and prosecutions. As chairman of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Minister of Justice's powers are counted in the 159th Amendment of our Constitution, and are set in Article 6 of Law No. 6087. Minister of Justice is the chairman of the HSYK, with the authority to represent. The CDC is constructed in three circles. The president can't participate in the work of these agencies, he can't vote, he can participate in general board work, but the judge can't attend hearings of prosecutors' autonomy work, disciplinary work. Therefore, a representative presidency is at stake. I'm here to take a beating the way Mr. Oyan said I would. My word in the form of "HSYK" is not in it. To whom would you ask a question you would not ask from the Minister of Justice in Parliament, Parliament, today? If the Minister of Justice didn't have a symbolic representation of the HSYK, would you have called in the Supreme Court, the Chief Justice, the President of the Constitutional Court, or any court? Parliamentary democracies would have had to deal with politics, and the Minister of Justice is a symbolic chairman of the HSYK in the name of this political conflict. Once again, the senior lawmakers, after this assessment, the gene is, in fact, one of the rules of control of Parliament, one of the rules of control, such as question motion, parliamentary research, general discussion and parliamentary investigation. However, the issues that can be controlled by a gene are different. There is an audit of the Prime Minister on behalf of ministers or on behalf of the Council of Ministers of Ministers in matters involving the executive authority and duty of the Council of Ministers. This audit can't be about legal authority, it can't be about jurisdiction. Other than these two, the minister or the prime minister can be audited for executive authority. As you can see from all these explanations, there are two issues on my side in the motion for a gene. There's a criticism that I haven't paid enough attention in the process of law, bill, law proposals coming out of Parliament as law.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0538par0240	Were the special jurisdictional courts established during your time or not?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0241	I don't have the authority to say the last word here as Minister of Justice in the act of law. The General Assembly has the last word; Parliament, our MPs. Therefore, to hold the Minister responsible for the laws made by Parliament is incompatible with the competencies and responsibilities of the 7th and 8th and 9th Articles of our Constitution, I say.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0538par0242	Didn't the special court of authority come up with your proposal?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0243	Another issue is that the Minister of Justice has no jurisdiction and no jurisdiction over the decisions and procedures of the judicial bodies. Therefore, it is not possible to direct a responsibility to the Minister of Justice. This may refer to an HSYK mission.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0538par0244	So, why do you put the fees and the money of the trial in the Bank of Non-Request Foundations?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0245	The responsibility of the HSYK can be mentioned. This is the third responsibility of HSYK. If a review and investigation is issued after the examination of his office, the Minister of Justice will either give it or not, but whether or not the Minister will make the decisions will be subject to judicial supervision. Therefore, as to the way this proposal was prepared, I must also say that the second motion was prepared for the first January 3rd, after the first motion was extradited by the Speaker of Parliament. And when we look at their reasons, of course, the appreciation belongs to our valued lawmakers, but according to our Constitution, I don't think these questions should be subject to the Minister of Justice. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about the general issues of the judiciary have been shared in the Justice Minister's person. Valuable speakers, lawmakers have brought up judicial practices in Turkey, infrastructure problems, some issues that are systematically failing. Of course, this has been discussed a lot since the past. We all argued, expressed our views. The issue was discussed a lot before 2002. Many comments were made regarding those who had done so before 2002. Judicial has been a troubled, troubled area and chronicized problem in Turkey for a long time.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0539par0248	No one invested the money of the judgment in Akbank (Akbank) without interest. This happened during your time.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0249	Mr. Tanal, when you spoke, everyone here listened respectfully. You'll be on this stand, you'll be asking questions, you'll be critical, but you won't stand for an answer. Please, I'm asking you to show your democratic patience and patience. I listened to you with respect, silence.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0540par0250	What if judgment is quick?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0251	Dear lawmakers, we are all aware of the process, which has been passed by the judiciary in Turkey. This is the problem of this country, and we are members of Parliament, which has to solve this problem with common sense. Since then, in Turkey, there is a problem with long-term trials, the problem is that the trials cannot be over in a reasonable amount of time. In this country, the judiciary had infrastructure problems. In this country, the judiciary had problems that brought joy to human resources.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0540par0252	The Lighthouse of the Judiciary has a problem!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0253	In this country, the judiciary had problems stemming from education, and in this country, the judiciary had problems stemming from legislation infrastructure.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0541par0254	Who's been running this country for ten years?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0255	Precious lawmakers have been doing very important work on solving these problems over the last decade, but since 2009, these studies have been systematically planned, scientific, participating, compromiser and holistic, and for the first time, a strategy document has been created for solving these problems and a strategy document for solving them.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0542par0256	Were the previous studies left weak?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0257	Depending on this strategy document, an action plan has been prepared and declared. After these activities took place in August and September 2009, the plan was discussed and assessed at the Council of Ministers, followed by the European Commission. Our Council of Ministers has agreed and started implementing it. During the past two years, significant steps have been taken and significant changes have been made in the structure of the Constitutional Court. The structure of the Supreme Council of Judges Prosecutors was organised broadly based on the principle of participation. The Supreme Court and the Court have been institutionally strengthened; the number of members, the number of apartments, the study judge and the employee staff have been strengthened. The physical infrastructure of our court office has been strengthened in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0543par0258	There is no justice in this country, Minister, no matter what you say. There's no justice in this country.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0259	146 palaces of justice were built and served, 35 more palaces of justice are currently being built.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0544par0260	The prisons are packed, Mr. Secretary. Why don't you pay a visit to the prison? What's the status of the prisons?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0261	Again, 205 prisons have been closed, while 60 more appropriate prisons have been opened.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0544par0262	38 people remain in the barracks for 10 people.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0263	The technical infrastructure used in the service of the judiciary has been strengthened.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0545par0264	History will answer for it. History won't always remember you like that.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0265	With the National Judicial Network Project, very important work has been done to truly serve the judiciary's infrastructure by establishing online connections with video deposition systems and other public institutions.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0546par0266	Visit Gaziantep Prison, you're the Minister.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0267	Dear lawmakers, all penal legislation imposed in Turkey in 2004 and 2005 on legislation infrastructure has been renewed. These legislations were carried out with a significant amount of parties represented in parliament. The fundamental laws, such as the Turkish Penal Code, the Penal Code, the Penal Code, were made significantly by an agreement in this Parliament. Of course, it's not a 100 percent consensus, but a significant part of it is the law in the General Assembly, in which commissions are agreed upon. When you look at the law legislation again, laws such as the Turkish Law on Debts, the Turkish Trade Act, the Law on Laws and the Law on Laws and the Law on Publicment were adopted on this General Assembly very briefly. And that's how this significant transformation and transformation was achieved that our subject needed.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0547par0268	Lighthouse prosecutors are one of the matters of your youth. Isn't it a shame they're fighting corruption against these prosecutors?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0269	At the point of human resources, the capacity of high courts has been increased. The number of prosecutors has increased by 34 per cent, justice staff has increased by 78 per cent, and the number of courts has increased by 21 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, all these measures have been implemented together, but today a threshold has been reached.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0547par0271	Mr. Secretary, answer the gene, take the House seriously.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0548par0272	Mr. Secretary, respond to Room TV, Room TV.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0273	After steps to resolve the problems of the judiciary in Turkey, we have come to the conclusion that for the first time in our history more than the case that came to the Supreme Court, and for the first time, the stocks in the Supreme Court began to melt.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0547par0274	What happens when there's no justice, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0275	Dear lawmakers, there's one thing we've always objected to and complained about: there's no reasonable trial in this country, so we get a lot of convictions at the European Court of Human Rights. Now, studies have been made to remove this complaint. With the magistrate's plan, in a year and a half, I hope the existing stocks are being melted, and two years later, when you file a lawsuit in this country, the proceedings in the first-level court will result in 12 to 14 months, including the process in the appeals court. This is a revolution in the name of the Turkish judiciary, a reform.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0547par0277	The Lighthouse revolution was made, the revolution back!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0278	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've been particularly...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0547par0279	The Lighthouse is a disgrace to you, a monument to corruption!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0549par0280	You've been running this country for ten years, why have you failed so far?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0281	...in the atmosphere of the September 12, 2010 referendum, I regret to say that I have also seen a systematic deformation and systematic attack on the Turkish judiciary.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0547par0282	It's not called a revolution, it's called a coup d'état, it's called a coup d'état.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0283	I'd respect that if these disinformations and attacks were done with the right information, with the data. I said Turkish judgment has problems. We accept troubled, troubled areas, and important steps have been taken to correct these troubled areas, and they continue to take. But as if there's something that doesn't exist, there's really a stack of them on the Turkish judiciary.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0547par0284	The Lighthouse prosecutors aren't suspended? Isn't there such a thing?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0285	Now, everyone expects justice from one another. Dear lawmakers, while everyone in this country is waiting to be fair to each other, people or institutions do not take a step towards the idea that they must act with justice. Open the papers in the morning. Where is this state? Where is this nation? You see the headlines, where is justice? But when you look at the Press Act, you have the right to correct the false and false news, and you have the right to answer. The right to correct according to the Press Law must be published on the same page, in the same column, in the same punch and in the same volume. But lo and behold, I have never seen one of the publications in the Press Law, which respect the right to answer, and exercise the right to correct. I didn't see one. There's a headline going on in 12 columns, it's completely unreal, asparagas.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0550par0287	What are you going to do with the police who serve the press, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0288	You're stating the truth, and the newspaper publishes a headline from page one to twelve columns on page twenty-five, like an ant prayer in the middle of the executive bankruptcy announcements. After that, he's back in the country looking for justice.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0550par0289	Figure it out, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0290	You'll be fair first, you'll be fair first.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0550par0292	Figure it out, Mr. Secretary, you've been running it for ten years, you'll figure it out, you won't complain.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0293	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today I would like to offend no one at this hour of the evening.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0551par0294	You can't. Why would you hurt me?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0295	Look, in my file, there are dozens of examples of justice practices in Turkey, politicalisation of the judiciary in Turkey, judicial interference in Turkey. These are examples of detected, stable intervention.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0552par0296	You answer for your own power.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0297	If I talk about this on the stand, there's gonna be a lot of embarrassment around here.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0552par0298	Pay for your power, your power. Just answer for yourself.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0299	I don't want to upset anyone at this time of night...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0552par0300	Mr. Secretary, give me your account. You'll answer for it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0301	...I don't want to stretch the General Assembly Hall, but the party speakers have been talking here for 90 minutes, and we've been listening patiently for 90 minutes...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0552par0302	You don't answer, you answer; that's what democracy means.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0303	...but to answer all these allegations and accusations, the Minister, who came to this stand, without saying a word, without saying anything, started picking on him. That's our idea of democracy. We'll charge him, we'll tell him, but he won't even answer. That must be the only idea of a party that has a sense of democracy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, look, when you say this, dear lawmakers, I just said that everyone expects justice from someone else; they expect justice from the employer, but he can't respect the rights of the employer. The issue of whether political parties have recognised their rights to their own members is widely discussed these days. The main opposition party is going to a charter convention, and when you look...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0553par0306	Stay out of it, it's not your job, mind your own business! None of your business at the convention!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0307	...where the group has served as vice president, look at the assessments of this party's legal staff, which have emerged these days, there's no talking about rights, law at CHP headquarters...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0553par0308	None of your business!
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0309	...there's a lack of law. There's news coming out. While you await justice from us, please give this justice first within the CHP headquarters under your own roof. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, what we've done is we've resolved the setbacks before September 12, 2010, and we've come closer to universal standards in Turkey...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0554par0313	Ask for the mayoral election of the municipality's women's arm, at Kopeli. Ask him instead of talking about CHP headquarters. Ask him how you did it. Ask Mr. Nihat. Ask them how they do it.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0555par0314	Please sit down... please sit down...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0535par0315	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0556par0317	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0557par0318	Mr. Secretary, if you want, I'll give you these papers about the city, then I'll ask you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0558par0319	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0556par0320	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made a statement to the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0558par0321	If this Congressman gets thirsty, I can listen to you.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0556par0322	He made a mockery of me, I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0558par0323	There's bullying, you want a word, do you, sir? MEHMET AKIF HAMZABI (Istanbul) - Yes. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0559par0328	Mr. President, I've watched a high-profile Minister of Justice as an example. The Minister of Justice says: "I live in the Ministry of Justice, but I am not responsible for justice. Do you mean to interfere with justice?" You said, "Mr. Minister, justice is the foundation of property in the 61st Government Programme." Yes, justice is the foundation of property, and justice is not slow, justice is not delayed, you say. Isn't that under your signature? Well, aren't you the head of a Ministry that's supposed to bring justice?
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0560par0329	That's what we provide.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0559par0330	Yes, Mr. Minister of Justice here says I'm not responsible for justice. So if inflation occurs in the country, the central bank will be responsible for inflation, and we are not responsible for the government. Mr. Secretary, instead of criticizing the Republican People's Party, sit down and face the public in the Lighthouse case. You have no face for public appearances in the Lighthouse case. In a hundred and three days, you've released the people responsible for the Lighthouse case, the prisoners. The judge decided that I could release him in a hundred and three days. Because the evidence is collected. These people are in no danger of blackening evidence. I'm releasing him. The Deputy Prime Minister said that this decision should be an example. Are you saying the opposite of what your Deputy Prime Minister said? Are you saying that this decision will not be an example of understanding that releases prisoners in a hundred and three days, or an understanding that has no concern about dimming evidence? The illegal trials in Silivri will continue, you mean? You're a government in charge, you're the minister of that power, you've talked about it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-02sit05spe0561par0334	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Members of parliament, talks have been concluded on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on Mr. Sadullah Ergin is on the agenda. Now I'm going to submit to your votes on whether or not the motion for the motion to be raised: those who have agreed to the motion to the gene... those who have refused to accept it... the motion for the gene is not accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals from the Commission. We will continue the talks of Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. We will continue with the Tunceli MP Kamer Yün. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, it is Friday (February 3rd 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions for draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
