tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Abdullah Nejat Koker, a member of the Gaziantep MP, who has asked for the anniversary of the title of Gaziantep province. Here you go, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have received a promise on the occasion of the 91st anniversary of the election of Gaziantep, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute your high council. In November 1919, the Armenians welcomed the French troops who entered Antwerp with tears of flowers. Soon things began to break out one after another. After being forced down by a French officer by an Armenian interpreter of the Turkish Flag of the Akyol Station, the abuses of Turkish women, the beatings of defenseless children, the tortures of men followed one another. Thousands of unnamed heroes led by Gaziantep, Şahin Beyin, Martyr Khalil, and Karayalan. I'm from Antwerp. I'm agha. Put the Mavzer on my shoulder. I'll fight with my fists. My fists are as big as the country. The relentless struggle against the French occupation forces lasted 11 months and came from thousands of miles away to kill our people, the French, killing thousands of people with Armenians. He has seen the proper response from the People of Antwerp, but today we see that these massacres have not learned from history and taken its place in history. In the battle of hunger, poverty, and captivity, the Anthabites have put forth their blood and their lives, saying, "It is the day of righteousness." In the defence of the country, the battle of Gaziantep (Ghaziantep) differs from its place and its importance. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Every town, every town and smallest Turkish village can take Gaziantepli as a hero. The praise is the strongest expression of this situation. Dear lawmakers, at the 147th meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on February 6, 1921, the President of the Council of Ministers and National Defence Minister Fevzi Çakmak offer a proposal to the Parliamentary Chair: ▪ Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Riyaseti Galilee, This bill, which began in the Gazi Ayytap bond of the town of Ayytap, which is the center of the Antwerp liva, is adopted on the same day in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and with a standing ovation and will be published in the official newspaper of February 8, 1921. He was then registered as a veteran by the Veteran Assembly and decided to be awarded a veteran's medal. I'm honored to have this conversation in the same House today in ninety-one years. Turkey's Grand National Assembly titled the two Gazilik (Gaziliklik), one Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the other Gaziantep. This meaningful decision, which has comforted the souls of the 6th,317 martyrs of Gaziantep, has made all our countrymen proud as an immortal symbol for the heroics and courage of the Gaziantep. Today, in the economy and in other areas, Gaziantep is the same spirit and the same excitement that has been written epically in the national struggle and won the title of Gaziantep. Gaziantep has made it a principle for itself to contribute from production to investment, employment to exports in many areas to the country's economy and to open a business for thousands of unemployed while in exports, and has succeeded in being the sixth in Turkey. I celebrate this blessed day for all my countrymen on the 91st anniversary of giving Gaziantep the title of journalism by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. With gratitude and respect for our veterans, I cherish all our martyrs, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. Yesterday was the anniversary of the title of Kahramanmarash as a hero, and today is the anniversary of the title of Gaziantep, our neighbor. I'm celebrating our city, both heroes, and the city of Gazi, and I'd like to point out here as the two events we're proud of on behalf of our coven. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The second non-responsored statement belongs to Müğla MP Tolga Çangdar. Mr. Chandar, please come in.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, before I start speaking, I, too, have been celebrating the days of salvation as a man who has sung the song of French bullets. I'd like to show you a picture at the beginning of my speech.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0005par0038	Gaziantep?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0004par0039	It's not Gaziantep, sir, it's Basement Alakish; it's called Kissebük. The islander position is one of the most beautiful places in the world. How? Incredibly beautiful. Mr. President... My speech today is about this bay. We call it "Kissebübü" (Alakish and Adalian). It's 18km to Bodrum. It's 14km - if you go from sea to sea. You know the blue journey, there are some of you who have traveled blue. It is he who introduces our land to the world, his culture, his history, you know, in Cevat Shakir Cabal. In those days, Cevat Shakir began his sense of sustainable tourism, where the world was headed, and thanks to him, we converted it into a journey of blue. Today, if you go from the first stops of that blue journey to Gökova, which is one of their first stops by boat, it was one of their first stops, but now it's his only stop. You have to stop here first because virgin is the only area. All of our previous coves have been, unfortunately, irresponsible, self-absorbed, because of politicians who think of nothing but their own political and economic interests, they are victims of their wrong decisions. Therefore, when you set out from Bodrum to Gökova (Georgia), the first virgin place is Kissebük (Kissebüp), or Alakishla Harbor, is on the map. Now in 2005, the Ministry of Tourism, about these allocations, has issued various allocations to companies here. Because of these allocations, it was allowed to be built here. He sued our Republican People's Party for democratic mass organizations in the basement, and we cancelled those decisions. But then again, we have a law on the amendment to the Tourism Instigation Law, which, if I'm not mistaken, is number 7561. A variety of explanations have been given to tourism areas, including the 6th and temporary 9th article of this Law. Based on these materials, for example, if you find thermal water, you can build a thermal plant here. Suddenly, in the second half of 2011, thermal drilling started happening around here, so we're going to find thermal water, and look, this is thermal space, and we're going to build a 2,550-bed hotel here. So, my dear friends, please don't let this happen. Look, they used to call the basement Bodrum Basement a few shops, a few ovens, and every day there was no mouth, no mouth, no mouth. The basement was really small, you know, a place with citrus, tomatoes, peppers, fishing, spongery, living off of it, roasted with its own oil. Yeah, we couldn't really get our kids to read, and now that they're rich with tourism, they've improved, but enriching and developing shouldn't mean destroying nature. Therefore, politicians should be very careful about their decisions and make it a priority to protect nature. Therefore, my dear friends, please stop the laws that will destroy the land -- the Bodrums, the environment -- from coming out. My dear friends, it's an archaeological site in the 1st degree, and it's also a natural site in the 1st degree. In these areas, it is not necessary to change the values of the sites, to create false relations with politicians and traders, to change the degrees of their status areas and not allow them to be built here. Let it be the Sea Chamber of Commerce, there is also a Turkish Tourism Congress in Istanbul today; there are no sea traders among the speakers, no sailor speakers. That's interesting, by the way, in between. My dear friends, one-quarter of Turkish tourism revenues, or one-fiveth of them, are from tourism, sea tourism. To do so, you must not kill Kissebük. I salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Chandar. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Isparta MP Sulejman Nevzat Korkmaz, who asked for a word on the treatment costs of injuries caused by a car accident. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0006par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, I'm going to share with you today a problem that concerns 200,000 people and will lead us to the blessings of so many when it's resolved. It's a bit of a matter of the House's neck debt, though. Sometimes you show up to do good, but you get a bad result that's never been done, and that's one of them. With Law 6111 issued in 2011, Parliament caused this victimhood. New regulations have been made in Article 98 of this Law to cover medical costs after the traffic accident. Due to these traffic accidents, the health care costs offered by university hospitals and all other public and private health care institutions are covered by the SGK, regardless of whether or not the victim has social security. In Article 1 of the same law, the health care costs offered by the SGK are covered by the traffic accidents that occurred prior to the publication of this law. If the traffic accident occurred after the release date of the law, February 25, 2011, the costs of treatment are paid by the SGK, which is an abbreviated health care application notification. So if the accident happened before that date, that's where the problem begins. The bureaucratic torture, which bores our people to death, almost caused them to come and go like a ping-pong ball among institutions, yet does not lead to a consequence. On the basis of this statement in the language of the law, both insurance companies and the SGK lay flour on the line, making the citizen's work difficult. The insurance companies will pay for it according to the law. The reason for the SGK is that -- I'm keeping an eye on it -- the legislation is going on. The parties who have been hiding behind these excuses haven't paid for a year. There's no mistake in the analogy, the stubborn attitudes and friction of institutions such as someone's stomping and staying in the middle again, and that's what keeps our citizens in the middle. People are dying, dear friends. Is there any explanation for the persecution of a citizen because of the whims of the institutions? That's how this institution interpreted the law or how this institution understood the law... Let everyone do their reckonings differently, not on the citizen's side. Why hasn't the SGC done the application regulations so far, once they have to be asked to account for it? Besides, why would a citizen take the blame for not taking the law into his own hands for so long? On the other hand, insurance companies pay the policy holder, demanding that he receive from the SGK. What kind of protection or protection in insurance, what kind of human-focused service, it doesn't make sense. How, though, can the Ministry absorb the fact that a citizen has been turned into a ping-pong ball without a solution? Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid they all play three monkeys. Dear AKP MPs who claim that we have skipped the age of health, stop this persecution that has been inflicted on the citizens, and do not be indifferent any longer, and we will be the only ones left behind in the squares. The challenges of Law 6111 were not limited to this, but before the legislation was published, the maintenance costs of those in need were paid by insurance companies without any problems, and today the SGK has shown that maintenance costs are no longer paid for because the law is not clearly counted. For bedridden patients, emergency medical supplies such as an electric chair, a cool bed -- determined in the SUT -- can only be paid a small amount, for example, only $2,000 in a 40000-dollar battery chair. All of these expenses were paid by insurance companies without delay before this law was passed, my friends. What did you do with that law, do good to the citizens or to the insurance companies? What can be said but to say, "I wish you would not cast a shadow." Our motion as the National Movement Party was not adopted yesterday when the Law Proposal 150 was discussed, as the majority of members of the AKP (AKP) Commission by internal law did not sit on the Commission. If my proposal had been processed, I'd be giving a thank-you speech today instead of this complaint speech, and I'd like to take it off the table. I remind you that the problem has thousands of citizens waiting for an urgent solution, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Now, regarding Gaziantep's purchase of the title, Mr. Candy, please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Gaziantep was released from enemy occupation, you know, on December 25th. We are celebrating the 91st year of this title given to Gaziantep, Turkey's only veteran city, by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ninety-two years ago, the French invaded Gaziantep, leaving our women without husbands and children without fathers. The same French are after the same accounts today. Gaziantep has played a major role in both the organisation and the liberation, and today he is making serious contributions to Turkey with both its industry and its economy. Mr. President, on this occasion, while we Gazianteps, fighting for salvation, honoring all of our martyrs, I would like to say that we will not forgive the French in this world and in the next. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0009par0070	Thank you. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0010par0073	Mr. Secretary, Kahramanmarash and Gaziantep are our two distinguished cities. We can't give either because these are our two provinces, producing, producing honestly, honest and respecting the common values of Turkey. Therefore, I pay my respects to everyone in Gaziantep. All the people in Gaziantep, the manufacturers, are worthy of everything. No matter how many titles we name, there's little for Gaziantep. My respects.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0009par0075	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0011par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the SGK has almost won an autonomy; its sole purpose is to reduce the money paid to institutions. While paying institutions even at the risk of harming the public's health, he gives brutal discounts, and he also gives non-scientific discounts. An ear, nose, throat specialist, for example, considers himself capable of cutting into new-born intensive care practices. It's important to stop this going on because once these funds are reduced, institutions are reduced from their practices on patients and citizens to profit, which brings death. Clearly, if you don't stop this, the deaths will increase more and more, and that should mean a stop to the SGK. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0012par0081	Mr. Yalcinkaya, our Bartin MP.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0013par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. The violent storm, which has been taking place off the coast of the West Black Sea for two days, has also affected the paradise corner of Bartin's province, Amasra and Kurucashile, which has also suffered financial losses in our two tourist districts. In particular, in Amasra, a storm of 50 miles [50 km] an hour caused some buildings to collapse, and many fishing boats anchored within the harbor sank, and the yachts hit the beaches. Regarding the matter, I would like to ask the authorities to conduct an immediate damage assessment of our two counties and to see that our damaged citizens are compensated immediately, and to all our citizens who have suffered a disaster, I wish them well.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0012par0085	Thank you, Mr. Yalcinkaya. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0014par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Ramazan Akyürek has been appointed chairman of the Board of Inspector Generals. However, according to the 25th Article of the Council of the Board of Security, the appointment of the Chief Inspectors of the Presidential Assembly according to rank and merit. Isn't it a security issue when Ramazan Akyerek is not present? Do you intend to recall this irregular assignment? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0016par0092	Mr. President, I've asked for a word with you about my place, so if you'll excuse me for a moment.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0015par0093	He's not here, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0016par0094	I asked for a promise from my place.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0015par0095	You must have come in later, it wasn't here; you must have come in now, sir, it wasn't there. Now, our Secretary of State of Defense will make a statement on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0017par0104	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise to make a statement about non-responsibility talks. First of all, I congratulate Kahramanmarash, as of yesterday's date, and today, both our heroes and veteran provinces for the 91st year of being named veteran by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I hereby ask God's mercy on our fallen martyrs for this land. Mr. Congressman has spoken off-the-tops about the allocations at the Adalıian location in Mugla Province. As part of the Mugla Bodrum Islander tourist centre, this region has been first declared a tourist destination. On February 23, 2006, Ersoy Hotelry Construction and Tourism Enterprises launched a four-star resort in the area of Yalılılıya district of Muğla Bayı district of Yalılılıya district, in the area of the forest, with a capacity of about 88,500 square metres to be carried out, with a capacity of about 54,495 square feet in the forest, on behalf of the Anonim Company of Ersoy Hotelry Construction and Tourism, on behalf of five-five-five-accessst resorts, and on behalf of the Muğla Bodrum Island tourism centre, Muğla County Bodı district of Bodrum, in the area of the island district of Bodrum Island, in order to carry out a four thousand square feet of Adalian territory, property of property of the forest, in the area of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the forest, in the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the city of the village of the village of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Islam, ons, ons, ons, ons, ons, ons, touring of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Turkey of In the course of the process, the Court of State has been assigned to the forest areas for tourism purposes. Preliminary permits have been cancelled on behalf of the firms, under the decision of his office to halt the execution and the Constitutional Court's decision to abort. Following the cancellations in the name of firms, the presumption has been made by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, under the 6th Amendment of Law 5761, and under Article 2634 added to Tourism Instigation Act 2634, where their transactions have been continued, but so far there has been no allocation made by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Another thing is about health care. In Turkey, every Turkish citizen can speak of health services with a white face, with a clear forehead, with pride. There's no shortage? There is, but the Ministry of Health has conducted a survey of satisfaction. Three of the four people in about Turkey say, "God bless you, you've brought good health to a good place." But we're short. What is it? Here, in the last quarter, there are still things that need to be done, and we agree, but our representatives have made it clear that a facility's competency or the competence of a structure can be understood in times of crisis. Ask all the earthquake victims and our citizens who were there in the Van Ergish earthquake. The department of health was the only one who didn't complain, even though he complained about every department, every service. Hence, three quarters of our people have satisfaction, and one fourth still has to be done. We accept what our representatives say within that quarter. But we are as sure as we are that Turkey's healthcare system is much better than yesterday. There is no doubt that the health system in Turkey, with measures, with the work to be done, and with the support from you, was the primary health problem of our people who lived in our country before. God forbid, if you went to a hospital in a state of health, there was no telling what price you'd pay, what bills you'd pay. Now, at least unemployment, economic problems are ahead; the health problem is not on Turkey's agenda; it is going in a very good direction. I thank all of our ministers who have worked so far to make the health system this way, and I salute you all with the idea that Turkey's tomorrow will be brighter than today.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0018par0114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Five more of our friends are in the system. One minute... Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0019par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the first of the Assembly's Human Rights Review Commission, which found its 40th day today and was taught to them everywhere, investigating the bombings of 34 Kurdish villagers in the village of Uludere-Roboski on 28 December 2011, has also been reported to the press that the decision was made from Ankara, and the local authorities are completely out of commission. The responsibility of such an important decision, of course, is the Chief of Staff and the Prime Minister's office. However, the Prime Minister, who is responsible for this grave decision and ultimately for humanity's crime, continues to respond by attacking, insulting those who ask for accountability rather than clarifying the issue. Mr. Prime Minister, who is trying to suppress the crime and responsibility by presenting the scene at the public's press conference as a joke, must now explain to the public what's going on, what's going on, what's happening, what's going on, and stop the political immoral attacks on the MPs.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0020par0124	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0021par0127	Mr. President, with the change of the Parliamentary Agency's Law, our staff, who have come from institutions on leave, has a crisis due to the lack of a serious contract. About 700-800 of our friends -- it wasn't supposed to be signed from January -- it seems that they're not working right now, and they're in a position not to get paid in February. I wish you'd take action to resolve this matter as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0022par0130	Thank you. Mr. Dawn...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0023par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. In Niğde, Nevşehir, Aksaray, Konya, and other cities, around 2,500,000 tons of potatoes remained in warehouses. In Niğde alone, 800,000 tons of potatoes can't be sold at half the cost. Does the government have any idea of market research on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0024par0136	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0025par0139	Mr. President, the feeders of the mill were defrauded by merchants in the town of Kırkaç, Manisa, and in the village of Poyracık, our İzmir Province, Turkey. The government's agricultural policies are very important here. We've paid $1.3 billion in foreign currency for the import of 600 million tons of corn by zeroing customs. Unfortunately, manufacturers who can't sell the product they produce are being defrauded because it's not given support for our own farmer. Now, this merchant, who defrauded our farmers in Kırınuk district after 40krek, is walking around, and his checks have bounced hundreds of checks.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0024par0141	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0026par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, no one can claim that health has improved. Look, I now have the Republic of Turkey, Ankara 29. There's a payment order issued by the Executive Board in 2011. The Ministry of Health. Borrower: A citizen whose name is hidden in me, I can give it to anyone who desires it. The amount is 302 lira 57 cents. Interest: $679.10. Why? It's a loan from the hospital. Is that what you call good health? Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0024par0147	Off-the-book talk is over. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly, and I'm teaching it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to ensure the future of our country's strategic importance, the discovery, training, and effective employment of the Supreme Talents, we make it necessary for the Constitution to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Civil Charter. Although several attempts have been made after the Republic era for highly gifted children, the system of education and monitoring of gifted children has not been clearly defined in the overall education policy and has already been established as an institutional and continuity. Highly skilled children whose mental abilities are superior to their peers, creatively powerful, with a certain desire to finish what they started, have a higher sense of duty and use their creativity to solve the problems they face are the greatest source of wealth in a country. Because those children are also the ones who will play the most important role in shaping the country's future if they receive proper and adequate training. In the interest of the country, if education and monitoring programmes are not developed that will help them achieve their current potential in line with their ability and capacity, then our highly skilled children will either be transformed into problem citizens, or they have developed their policies decades ago, and they will use them for their own benefit by taking advantage of those values by countries and groups of interest who are aware of them. As a potential, the evaluation of distinguished and strategically qualified individuals will benefit the country and the vastly human population. In the event that it is not evaluated, it is possible that this potential will be transformed into a troubled population with psychological and personality disorders. In terms of the state, the education of highly skilled people must have a special place. Because in the context of education-government relations, education of the superior has a more strategic and functional position than any other. However, the superior, a scarce human resource in terms of the country's potential for development, creates a difficult and important demographic field for the state. It should be viewed as a state's responsibility to make this education as perfect and decent as possible. There is no doubt that Turkey's ability to provide a perfect education to this elite potential will reveal a great deal of value. In this case, it will need to first determine the country's reserves and then plan how to handle this reserve with all its dimensions for long-term results. According to TÜBITAK research, there are 682,000 highly intelligent individuals within the age range of 0-24 in Turkey and that number is 2% of its population. Only 6942 of these individuals are trained in science and art centers for highly skilled people, which require a revision for institutionalisation of the organisation and development of the programmes of these centers. An urgent and comprehensive high-level study is needed to assess the remaining majority and determine future policies. It is imperative that our country, which we consider strategically important in securing it, is to be discovered, trained, and able to provide effective employment, to be transformed into the added value of our country's most valuable resource, before it is lost. For these purposes, by the House, the Constitution is 98. The Civil Charter is 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, it would be appropriate to establish a commission that will handle the education of highly skilled children in every way. [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mihrimah Belma Line [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Kayseri]] 7) Ahmet Berat Çonkar [[İstanbul]] [[Tripoli]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aksaray]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Canan Candemir Steel [[Scholarship]] 17) Cigdem Münevver Ökten [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Heart Bekin Shahkulubey [[Mardin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 24) Ahmet Baha Öğüken [[İstanbul]] [[Karaman]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 28. Nevzat Pakdil [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Binkilic, Çeçköy, Karacaköy, Karacaköy, has been taken into the district of Çatkca. Binklıç, Fatih and Ataturk neighborhoods are a village in Çakca, located 52km away from Çakca. Earlier, Binkilic was a municipality of the people's referendum and was a municipality in 1990, when he was in village status. As a result of the March 2009 local elections, Binkilic was closed to the First Level Municipality, and was tied to the municipality of Çaktica as Ataturk and Fatih neighborhoods. Binkluç, Fatih and Ataturk neighbourhoods have a total of 3.199 inhabitants. In our cities, the people had been living off forestry during the previous years. Other than that, it's very small-scale livestock. There are about 1,300 households in Binkluç. By 2006, all households living in Binkuluc were given standing wood to provide for the people in about 10 different places, where they would be cut open per household. Half our people are cutting this wood themselves, and it's about 40 to 50 tons. 2,000 kg.) They buy wood, they sell it to people who sell it, and they earn a year's living. The households, which are sick, old, and unable to work in the forest, also provide for a year or so without a tractor, hand engine, or etc., by selling it to people who have a vehicle (the current monetary value is around 4,000,00 euros). Other than that, each household is given wood to burn again in winter, and only one pafta is given about 3 or 4 tons of wood to cut. By 2006, the people of Binkluç and all the other villages continued to earn their living. Since 2006, the plain-cut sites have been given to our people in less quantities and a system that is very difficult to cut. Our people paid $34,00 for transportation to the Forest Business Authority in the dates related to a ton of wood he cut. After the closing of the First Kademe Municipality in the March 2009 elections and the being of Ataturk and Fatih neighbourhoods of Çatinca, these were given to our people as of 2009, from the hands of Binkuluç Ataturk and Fatih neighborhood, Karacaköy neighborhood and Farmtown neighborhoods. Starting in 2009, these sites have been tendered by the Forestry Management Directorate, subject to the provisions of the Public Contraction Act. The purchase and sale are made by those who carry the appropriate conditions (7 people in the Binklic are available). Those who receive the tender pay $42.00 for a ton of wood. So the people's livelihood has been taken from them, and the seven who have received the tender only have the tractor and the intermediary of 5 or 6 houses to make a cut of these places, which is 50 or 60 digits in Binkluc. In addition, another reason why our forests were taken from us was that our population, not 3,199, but 20,000, with the Districts of Forkca, was shown as a result of the total population of 20,000. There are 52km between Çazca and Binklıç, and seven villages are in between. As of 2001, there was no firewood for our people, so wood was given under the name of fire, and the money for $165.00 a household was paid to the Forest Management Department. This wood is only as much as our people need to burn, and it does not contribute to their livelihood. The forests, which were the livelihood of our people, were taken from them, and no resources were created to provide for our people and to get out of the difficult situation, and no jobs were provided. Although the residents of village status have taken advantage of this opportunity, I would like to ask that Parliamentary Research be opened in accordance with Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Constitution to address the problems of our people, which are 52km away from Çaktica, in Farmville, Karacaköy, Binklıc. Yours truly. [[İstanbul]] 2) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 3) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] 4) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Antalya]] 6) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 7) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] 10) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Mughle]] 12) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 14) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 18) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] 05.10.2011 A new era has begun in the economy, along with the Justice and Development Party's rulings. Political Power has adopted and implemented privatisation practices as a special and indispensable method for economic development and efficiency. However, in most of the critical privatisations carried out by the Political Authority so far, serious corruption allegations and findings have emerged. As a result of privatisation practices, abnormal increases in unemployment rates and non-union rates are observed as a result of privatisation, such as lack of technology renovations, employment growths, free competition conditions, and privatisation. On the other hand, in the privatisation process, the relevant legislation has often been clearly violated, the conditions for free participation in public and tenders have been blocked, and the way for unjust interest has been opened by misuse of public authority. A significant part of these proceedings, which are clearly in violation of the law, have been annulled by the judiciary, however late, but in the process, the judicial decisions have been inadmissible. Because the privatisation issue is still out there. The Privatisation Administration and the Political Authority have consciously created this environment and the outcome. As the decision to stop the executive was not carried out, the requirements of the tender requirements were not followed by the Administration. The third non-profit of privatisation. People have been approached or ignored by consultations. This breach process has been carried out in various ways and methods. In other words, Bureaucracy has been encouraged and protected for abuse of duty and authority. The provisions of the Turkish Penal Code for abuse of office have been neutralized, and the provisions for compensation have lost its function with legal regulations. In this way, it is clear that public officials commit crimes through the Lawless Command. This is happening in Sejdişehir Etimi Aluminum. This process took place during the privatisation of the 14.76th of the tube. A similar painting appeared in Balıkesir Seka. There's been a similar process in the monopoly. That's what happened in the Red Moon. Turkish Telecom privatisation also contains elements that need to be questioned. Within 40-50 to 60 years, these businesses, created by public power and public savings, have been evacuated in this way, of strategic importance. Public damage has reached unimaginable and unpredictable dimensions. In addition to the responsibility of the political government, public administration units have also misused their mandate and powers in the process; public funding and gains in co-operation with certain companies have been used to organise interest. As a result of such an arrangement, the verdicts of the cancellation have been inadmissible. This mechanism must be revealed to the reasons and those responsible who created and protected this organization. Public damage has to be determined as a result of such a painting. The damage is estimated to exceed $10 billion. In this process, administrative and judicial process must be conducted regarding those who have been negligent, who have abused their duties and powers, and who have caused public damage and social collapse. For those of you who are responsible for the above issues and to determine the measures that need to be taken, the Constitution's 98th and TBMC Charter 104th and 105th. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. There are serious indications and concerns that unfair and arbitrary practices in privatisation practices have led to the destruction of public resources and economic dependency. Most privatisations show that there is no technology renovation, no employment growth; these privatisations show that the rate of dismissal has risen, and ununioned practices have gained speed. As a result of this process, cancellation decisions that can be concluded through the judiciary seem to lack the ability to apply. In order to investigate these issues, identify the problems, and connect the measures needed to be taken to the report, it will be appropriate and appropriate for the TBMM to investigate the issue. [[Inconceived]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Bolu]] [[Malatya]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] 7) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] 13) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 14) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 16) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] 20) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] 21) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to have it read and put to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A parliamentary delegation of members of the TBM Foreign Commission is scheduled to make an official visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina with the invitation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Representatives for Foreign Relations Commissioner Miraz Kusljugic. The parliamentary delegation's visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina is the 6th edition of the 3620th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the General Assembly's approval. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: 08.02.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. A proposal for the opening of the Grand National Assembly's agenda on the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the 10/115 murders during the 116th time of the General Assembly's General Assembly's Review and Assembly Research has been proposed for a session of the General Assembly on Wednesday (April 08.02.2012) in order to determine the measures which must be taken under investigation. In favour of Sırrı Sakık, Muş MP, on the motion that the Party of Peace and Democracy has submitted according to Article 19 of the Civil Charter. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0027par0369	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm here to share with you my thoughts on this motion on behalf of our group. I salute you all. Actually, our agenda is today... two days ago, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc made a motion for these words about Kurdish language... but while we were listening to the Prime Minister at the governor's meeting, I'd like to change our agenda and inform Parliament of the unsolved. Now, while listening to the Prime Minister, there were governors of the province. The Prime Minister was giving instructions to the governors of the province. His instructions to the law enforcement forces before were not enough, his instructions to the judiciary were not enough, and this time the governors who targeted the BDP and acted towards the role of the mayors. Please, go attack BDP. He had opened a war front against BDP as a whole, and he could say in cold blood: We want to do something about the unsolved killings, but the Peace and Democracy Party wants to prevent it. The Peace and Democracy Party has spoken on this bench dozens of times over the course of two semesters to form research commissions on unsolved murders, but your numerical majority has rejected it. The Republican People's Party has brought the same motions, but is rejected again. Now, just two to twelve, which is the last days of 2011, 34 unsolved murders have been committed in Uludere, Roboski. The perp didn't show up. The Peace and Democracy Party has invited the government to serve, the Grand National Assembly has invited the Human Rights Review Commission, has submitted research proposals, but the Prime Minister has also pointed out the Peace and Democracy Party, the victim of this work, in the eyes of the public. Today there will be talks on the Charter. Actually, that's what you're afraid of. You want to keep our voices down because we are a group of people who carry this country, this state, the founding of the republic, to this very moment, without fear of the persecution policies against these people. You're afraid of that. We'll be right behind you. The Peace and Democracy Party will bring him here until those murders in Uludere come to light. They're trying to hide it like this, go out on the stand, lecture on Syria, Libya, lecture on democracy, they're trying to watch the murder in their own country, and they're trying to keep the opposition quiet. Now, if your heart is strong enough, take it out there, and make an image of the Heronites that night. Call in the leaders of four political parties, bring them to the Prime Minister, examine them. We'll see where he gives the instructions in Ankara. What did the Commissioners who went there tell you about the victims there? Ankara is in charge of this work. The authorities there say that Ankara is responsible, and...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0028par0374	He never said that, never. Whoever said it...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0027par0375	Anyway... that's what's going on in the press. We say Ankara is responsible, Ankara is responsible. Ankara must find these perpetrators. Now, from the inside, the cries are rising. Special Brancher Ayhan Wheel says: "Ya, decisions were made on the National Security Council in the past period, and the unsolved murders were committed that way. There were politicians, civil and military bureaucrats here. Open up how the decisions are made. Ismet Pasha was saying to the Turkish people in World War II: "Maybe I left you without bread, but I didn't leave you without a father." But this republic left the Kurds without bread, left the Kurds without bread, left them without children, and today there are unknowns, and now you blame the Party of Peace and Democracy when you have to expose these perpetrators. Now, look, dear friends, it's 1994, and I've said it a few times here. Once they get us out of here, you're not gonna find a single charge against us, blood, violence, death. You can't find a person in the BDP who was arrested today under the name of the 8,000 -- arrested under the name of the KCK -- who invites only one violence, who approves of death. And we went, and we were in there ten years, and some of our friends were in there ten years, and some of them were five years, and no one could say: These have fingerprints on the trigger of the guns, and they were responsible for the blood. You can't hold one journalist, lawyer and party managers, lawmakers and mayors responsible for blood. A party that's out of so much blood and violence, and a party that's been exposed to violence, feeding on blood and violence, his thesis, in the name of God, is, in the name of God, unconscionable. Each one of us has lost dozens of relatives in these unknowns, and that's not enough, and it's not enough to say that some congressman friends of ours are talking to our friends when they're talking to them, and we're thinking, "How can we think like you? I mean, how can we think like you before the perpetrators in the nation show up? You're going to arrest 8,000 people, how can we think like you? You'll mock Kurdish language, how can we think like you? But our mission is that we're here, we want dialogue. From time to time, we sit and talk to people who are close to the Prime Minister. The way you're going is not the right way. This road brings more blood, more tears, more pain to this country. For him, we say dialogue and negotiations are inevitable. That's why the political world exists. That's why we're here. We have no such dream at this stage, such as being in power in Turkey. We want to stop the blood. As far as we're concerned with these unsolved murders, let's take this motion together and look into it. Mr. Prime Minister says: "Who killed Massum Korkmez?" Who killed Hikmet Fidan? Mr. Prime Minister, here we are. If you don't accept the motion we've brought in, bring in a motion, and we'll vote, and we'll accept it. Let's form a commission to investigate the facts. From Mahsum Korkmaz, to Hikmet Fidan, from Uður Mumcu, to Ape Moses, and whoever suffered in this land, bring them to you, and we will give you support. But you don't have the heart for it. You'll go out and give the governors instructions, and the governors will go out into the area. Now, yesterday, in Batman, our town and county building, our city building is being shot down. From now on, after these statements from the Prime Minister, these attacks will take place as a whole. But what the Prime Minister doesn't know is that if this group had given in to these attacks, this people, despite all the negativity, they wouldn't have taken out 36 MPs, and it's a chance. Look, we're the last generation. If Kurds and Turkey's democratic forces return to address Parliament, you have no right to attack the democratic floor if the democratic ground is addressed. You have to respect this will of Kurds, you have to enlarge it, but instead of you targeting Kurds and democratic ground, in recent polls, in Kurdish geography, you have a serious loss of votes in Kurds. You're trying to get the way, the method back with militant powers, law enforcement. By God, this neck does not bow before you. We've seen and lived hard times, and you know about the 1990s. Those who do not bow down to them will never bow down to this day. We've learned a lot over 30 years, we've suffered a lot, and we've seen a lot. But I believe that you should see these things, that you should be more discreet and have a conscience.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0029par0380	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Ramazan Can is a member of the Kırıkkale MP against the proposal. Mr. Can... no. Ihsan Sener against you, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You have ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0030par0386	Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, I salute you all. Of course, one of the most important tasks of the House is to put public appearances on the subjects of the community, no doubt. But it's not right to give them false information from here on the stand. Mr. Speaker, Sakık has just left, saying some things about Uludere. Of course, the incident on December 28th must have upset us as a nation, no doubt. The State has also launched its own mechanisms -- both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior and the Chief of General Staff have activated their own control mechanisms -- an investigation has been launched by the Uludere Prosecutor's Office. A mistrial has been issued and the investigation has been carried out by the Diyarbakır Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigation has a confidentiality order. We were there for two days on the weekend as a commission. The person responsible for this matter is Ankara. No citizen has ever used any statement that means it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0031par0389	There are sheets in the media, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0030par0390	There are other things in the media. Now, I don't want to answer you, but I don't want to repeat what I've read from here -- there are other things. So, as a living commissioner, this kind of statement has never been made. When we leave, parents actually welcome us to their table with open arms. We had dinner together, listened to anyone who had any words, information, documents, claims, any idea of time or time, one by one. Yet, the review commission has not received all the answers by asking all the questions it wants to ask, but we have completed our contacts in Gülyözaş, as you call it in roboski -- in Uludere, Şırnak, where we have collected information and documents.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0031par0391	Yes, Roboski is Roboski, you still say in your language.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0030par0392	No, I'm not saying this because we're uncomfortable. We're going to sort these out, and we're going to ask the relevant institutions and organizations for all the information and documents we need here. In the end, we would like to see this brought to light, on behalf of the nation, as the National Assembly, as the government, and as other institutions of the state. If there's any negligence here, nothing will remain hidden, but let me make it clear that when you're being handed over the motions to investigate the unknown, you shouldn't think one-sided, we want all of these things to come out where they've been wrongfully killed and where they've been killed. In recent times, we have many statements from our friends who have been mentioned in the press, as we call them, the Kurd intellectuals, and they say: "The execution of the terrorist organization is more brutal and more accurate." So, you don't mention a single sentence about them. Aren't those casualties human? Aren't they life?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0032par0395	The commission to investigate the facts... we call them.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0030par0396	So what we need to do here is, yes, there's a counterterrorism process, and I think that with an organization that doesn't have a say in the matter of taking the gun and accepting everyone he sees in front of him as a target -- maybe it's an operation error, there may be other mistakes, but I don't think it's intentional -- to bring up the people who died here and just make politics through them -- I think that in Turkey a political party should be sensitive to the unknown in all of Turkey. Now, it's not over, the investigation is ongoing, the prosecution, the investigation is ongoing. I think that bringing up investigations, investigations, and prosecutions that continue when they are rushed to every stand on this issue may be more of a blackout than a request to be enlightened. From our heart, we ask: " Let no man's blood indeed be shed in our land, and this is our heartfelt request. No one can claim to have more human love than we do, and no one can claim to be more sensitive about it than anyone else. But every event, every matter has its own mechanisms for enlightenment, they're in place. We hope that in a very short period of time, all of these dark unknowns will come to light, and you realize that, especially in the last five years, everything that's been going on with our recent history has begun to come to light, and no one should be disturbed by it. And he who kills an unjust soul in the course of history, nothing is hidden. Fifty years ago, the events of a hundred years ago are revealed, and others will surely be enlightened. I want you and our nation to feel good about this. I think it would be better if the state's mechanisms were found by doing serious work on their jurisdiction than whether or not the research commission was set up here. I made a promise against the motion. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0033par0401	Thank you, Mr. Sener, our MP.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0034par0402	Mr. President reversed my information and gave it to the public. I have to make a statement at a point or two as a whole.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0033par0403	Now, there's a speaker in your favor, and then I'll promise you, not now.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0034par0404	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0033par0405	Now, in favour of the motion, Osman Kuruturk, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0035par0409	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party in favour of a motion by the Peace and Democracy Party to open a parliamentary investigation into the unsolved murders. The unsolved murders are an embarrassment to democratic countries. If the unsolved murders continue over the years, it's important to lean on them. The Republican People's Party has taken this issue seriously from the start and has included in the election declaration. We've been offering a lot of methods to ensure our unity and unity, and in these methods, we've been able to set up a parliamentary commission for unsolved murders and investigate them. As far as we can see, the government, unfortunately, has given its weight to issues abroad, to protect the unity and unity of other countries abroad, to help countries abroad, rather than to make policies about the issues that provide national unity and integrity in these matters. During the government crisis in Lebanon, Mr. Foreign Minister does not give internal policy the energy he has shown in all directions to Syria until today, starting with his participation in efforts to establish government between Said Hariri and Nasrallah at Nasrallah headquarters. But here, during the budget talks, when the State Department budget was being discussed, I pointed out an assessment of Ataturk. Ataturk was there saying: "A country's foreign policy is closely related to its internal nature. " The stronger your inner body is, the stronger your foreign policy is, the more reliable it is. I'm afraid our internal system isn't strong today. In order to ensure unity and unity within our internal bodies, brotherhood, the government must produce policies. In our election declaration, we wanted democratisation for all of Turkey, but we also had special insights and special proposals for the East and the Southeast region, including unsolved murders for all of Turkey's democratisation, so I'm going to read them briefly from our election declaration. We were saying: "We will bring social peace to end the pressures in the east and southeast. We will overcome the obstacles to the identity of our Kurdish citizens by establishing pluralistic and liberal democracy. By law, we will find losses that will shed light on the unsubs through commissions in accordance with international standards. By punishing those responsible, we will relieve the suffering of our people and bring justice to justice. In all of this, unfortunately, with these unsolved murders, the Grand National Assembly doesn't show enough activity, enough energy. We made a motion to set up a commission just before the elections, which was rejected. It's probably going to be rejected by the Peace and Democracy Party today, but after it's rejected, friends, let's not forget it. You can deny them, you've already denied everything from the opposition. I believe there are very few people who have seen any law, any motion, led by the opposition, come out of here. You can deny these things, but please, think about these things, at least you can make some kind of policy on them. You make some policies so that we can maintain unity, unity, integrity in the country, and at least we can concentrate on foreign policy as a solid one in our country. Otherwise, it wasn't serious what Turkey had seen so far, to try to sway them in the conflict in Syria, to be described by the Iraqi Prime Minister as agitator of war and agitator of the conflict. Turkey was a stable, stable, stable, stable country, and was strong in this respect, balanced for it, had weight in Turkey for it. We need to maintain that stability within ourselves first, and in order to achieve that stability within ourselves, we need to eliminate this disgrace, which is called unsolved murders. I don't think we need to talk about it too long. The Republican People's Party's position on this matter is very clear. We support this proposal from the Peace and Democracy Party. In addition, we are prepared to support any other suggestions that may come along this way. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0418	Thank you, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0037par0419	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0420	Your position, one minute. Please... you want an explanation, your position... please...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0037par0421	Sir, two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0422	I'm gonna need you to...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0037par0423	Do me a favor...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0424	It doesn't matter. He'll be in the same restraint, sir. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0037par0425	Sir, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0426	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0037par0427	In that case, I'm not using it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0038par0428	Mr. President, let him speak from the stand for two minutes, Orator. I mean, he's from the AKP...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0429	Sir, the speakers are on the stand. Please, let us decide that much.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0038par0430	Two minutes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0039par0431	I mean, like...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0432	I mean, what difference does it make, Mr. Sakek? I'm asking you... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0040par0434	He's asking for it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0435	I said your position. Please, please...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0041par0436	Mr. President, look, it's usually used for bullying. Don't make such segregation policies.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0437	It's not a tease. Look, you said...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0041par0438	He said the opposite of what I said.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0439	One second... I'll make a statement. You said Mr. Sakik, didn't you?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0041par0440	I want to do it from the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0441	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0041par0442	It's usually a three-minute thing with this kind of thing going on.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0443	Wait a second, sir... you want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0041par0444	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0036par0445	Well, then, here you go. Because I'm going to explain. You said.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0042par0446	Would you look at him, Mr. President, where's the bully?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0041par0447	I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0043par0448	Okay, he'll explain now, listen.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0044par0449	Let's see what it is. Here you go. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0045par0454	Mr. President, thank you. Now, of course, while I was bringing up the problem here, the Prime Minister was saying that Mahsum Korkmez was saying that they were executed by the PKK, the Prime Minister was saying that they were executed by the PKK, so let's form a research commission like this as a whole, including these, and who are in this country who have been sacrificed to the unknown, let's investigate together... but you're going out, looking into our eyes, looking into our eyes, looking into your insides, looking in your language, and talking about Roboski, with your language, Roboski, Roboski, our ancestors, who are left behind. If you can't even digest that, how can we bring inner peace? Now, in the case of Uludere, if the Prime Minister comes out and thanks to the General Staff, we have a lot to say. You're still investigating... So, as the investigation continues, where did these planes leave from? Is there any chance the planes will take off without the approval of the Joint Chiefs? No.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0046par0457	We don't know.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0045par0458	We shall surely bring them to light, if you do not know. That's the criticism you've had lately: you've become Ankaran, you've become state, you've become Denktas. Behold, you went out together, and wept crocodile tears in Cyprus, even though you hated Denktas as much as your sin. What Denktas has done to bring you down. Well, that's our criticism. You've become Ankaran and you've become a state, you're trying to cover the sins of the state. That's the problem. That's where we disagree. Those who support you and the intellectuals who support you today also criticize you at this point. Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0047par0462	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0048par0463	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0049par0464	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0047par0465	Wait a second... First, I have to say that Denktash is a national hero as the founding president of the Turkish world and Cyprus. No one should say here that they hate Denktas. I feel the need to fix this. That statement must be taken off the books.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0050par0467	Do a survey in your group...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0047par0468	There's no need for a survey, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0050par0469	What did Denktash do to overthrow the AKP from Cyprus to here? He drove all the way from the esenboğa.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0047par0470	Mr. Sener, come in. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0051par0473	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've never been offended by the word "Roboski" and I believe in the sanctity of names. There's nothing wrong here.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0052par0474	Well, how nice!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0051par0475	Let me make it clear that we have no intention of reading anyone's intentions here. It doesn't matter what anyone says with what intent, but you know that in the last decade, many events that have remained dark in Turkey have been illuminated, and will continue to be illuminated.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0052par0476	We'll applaud you, we'll applaud you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0051par0477	We have adapted this nation to rule in broad daylight in Turkey, we will continue this way, no one has to worry.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0053par0479	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0054par0480	Not like Hrant Dink, but don't. Hrant Dink is in the middle.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0055par0481	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0053par0482	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0055par0485	Mr. President, you've made your point, and I thank you very much. Rauf Denktaş is indeed a national hero, a great man who founded an independent Turkish state, who spent his life trying to save the independence of the Turkish nation. I find it unfortunate that he is remembered here in bad words and sentences. I demand that Mr. Sırrı Sakık be released from the reports.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0056par0488	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0057par0491	Thank you, Mr. President. There is a massacre in Syria, a massacre in the city of Hummus. Unfortunately, the Republican People's Party continues to criticise the AK PARTY ruling rather than put the necessary democratic response on this issue. I believe this Baas brotherhood should be made a note of history.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0058par0493	With the Baas brotherhood...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0057par0494	It's about the unsubs.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0058par0495	Did we hold the Joint Council of Ministers meeting?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0057par0496	There's been a serious reckoning about the unknown, but you'll say Ergenekon. We're dealing with unknowns. No one will believe your insincereness. I think Turkey will ask the community why our BDP friends have not shown the necessary sensitivity to the Ergenekon case. Instead of investigating the murder of Hikmet Fidan, we would expect that Mr. Sakık, as well as other friends, to give a review of who committed the murder. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0059par0499	Thank you, Mr. Metiner. Mr. Korutuk, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0060par0501	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0059par0502	Mr. President, Mr. Ranger...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0061par0503	You're segregating, Metiner. At this rate, you will divide Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0059par0504	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0061par0505	You're dividing the country by saying "Baas brotherhood."
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0062par0506	It's not just your country, we don't divide, we don't divide.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0061par0507	That's your job, that's right, you're nothing but a provocateur.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0062par0508	It's not just your country.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0063par0509	Mr. Korutuk, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0061par0510	It's all in history, my people, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0062par0511	If you have something to say, we'll discuss it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0061par0512	You're a separatist, you're a separatist...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0064par0513	Please... please... We're listening to Mr. Korutrk.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0061par0515	You're ethnically divisive, you're divisive on the basis of the cult.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0065par0516	Yeah, what's with all the heavy accusations...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0066par0517	You're brother and sister of Baas!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0067par0518	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0068par0520	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement regarding Mr. Metiner's statements. The Republican People's Party will never approve of the atrocities in Syria. The Republican People's Party has nothing to do with the Baas Party. The Republican People's Party is a social Democrat, liberal, democratic party. What is wrong with Syria is that the government itself supports the uprising in Syria called the Opposition, which is wrong. What the government had to do was conduct domestic dialogues in Syria, within the framework of good relations with Syria and our neighbors, and solve the problem in Syria. The Republican People's Party has a proposal to hold an international meeting in Turkey. This proposal was also received correctly by the Justice and Development Party, as we see it. Today, the Secretary of State was talking about this proposal as his own, but he was talking about it within the scope of our proposal. So the Republican People's Party has nothing to do with the events in Syria. The internal policy of events in our neighbors...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0069par0524	Thank you, Mr. Korutk. Now against the motion, Mr. Fikri Light. Here you go, Mr. Light. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0532	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the group's proposal from the Party for Peace and Democracy. I hereby salute the High Council. My dear friends, we need to review the historical process of unsolved murders in order to truly understand unsolved murders and find a solution. Especially since the beginning of the Cold War, after the world was divided into two parts in Yalta (Yalta), the West Block, the East Block; the West Block's area of influence was established to protect these blocks, both in the West Block and in the East Block, in order to protect them. We now know that from the documents, from the writings, from the visual documents that came out today, and whatever these illegal structures may be, the country will remain under Western influence, under control, and so on and so forth, the country will remain under the control of the East. There's no need for law, there's no need for justice, no matter what, this control will be provided. And for that, I'm afraid these secret structures have committed some unsolved murders recklessly. Unfortunately, a lot of provocative actions were carried out by these hidden structures. This is not just Turkey. We find these events in many Western blocs and eastern bloc countries. Of course, we're not in much of a position to go into these details, but what we see is that in Turkey, too, unfortunately, this structure has been created, and there's been every effort to prevent this structure from being decoded. From time to time, some of our prosecutors, some of our lawmen, some of our statesmen suspected this structure, or they knew it existed and took steps to decrypt it. So, what happened after that, many of our intellectuals, many of our lawmen, many of our political men may have been murdered, and now the cover of these unsolved murders has just begun to open. There were many unsolved murders in this period, from the slaughter of Doğan Öz. Until the slaughter of Abdi İpekçi. Until the slaughter of Gün Sazak. When the Cold War was over, the countries went to the liquidation point, one by one. In some countries, this structure has resisted liquidation, like Italy. But that's where the law comes in and he's liquidating this structure, but he's paid a heavy price for it. Unfortunately, in Turkey, this structure continued to operate by changing its mission. In particular, an area was created in its name called the fight against division and irresistibility, which continued illegal activities in this area, continued provocative actions, continuing activities in which society could be camped and brought to one another. In the process, many of our intellectuals who have been working on decrypting these structures have also been eliminated on various occasions and in various ways. Today, behind the massacre of the late Ugur Mumcu, we can no longer say this at the right point -- perhaps a hundred percent document -- but at the point of conscience, there is very strong evidence that he's deciphered the relationship between the PKK and some of the internal structures of the state and that he's come to the point of publishing it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0071par0536	Here, let's investigate, if there's any...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0537	I'll tell you, I'll tell you. Look, if you'll excuse me, I'll tell you. My dear friends, look, have you ever...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0539	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0540	...organic structures between some of the government's units and the PKK...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0541	How can you blame the government?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0542	Look... one second...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0543	How do you equate the PKK terrorist organization with the state?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0544	You don't get to decide what I'm going to say.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0545	What a disgrace, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0546	Look, my dear friends, some of the government's departments have these things, unfortunately.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0547	Some of the units......... You sound like a BDP.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0548	What is being done in Turkey today? The cleansing of these structures in Turkey is the debt of Turkey's neck, the debt of the government's neck.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0549	How can you put the state and the PKK in the same boat?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0550	Is there some kind of power center nested inside the government? There is.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0551	You're the one sitting at the negotiating table! [[From the AK PARTY rows, don't shout, what are you shouting?]] He's got nothing that matches the state to the PKK.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0554	Now, I mean, I don't really understand why Oktay Vural was taken from these sentences.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0555	How can you blame the government here as a government-run party?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0556	Look, there's always someone in the government who's wrong, who's always outside the law. The state device for what happened is also required to run the law.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0557	How do you tie this to the government?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0558	My dear friends, now, just now Mr. Sakik says: "Come, let's investigate." Friends, it's already being investigated.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0559	Look at that! You're the one who took the terrorist organization off the mountain and negotiated!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0560	Aren't the unsolved murders in Turkey already being investigated in all its dimensions and all its aspects?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0561	Look at the mentality that makes the state equal to the PKK terrorist organization!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0562	Including the unsolved murders committed in 1979, including the murders committed prior to 1980...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0563	You're talking to the PKK in the same way as the BDP!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0564	Not only are the unsolved murders being investigated, but also the times of the coup attempt to lay the groundwork for the unsubs.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0072par0565	You negotiators!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0566	In this House, on this bench, we know very well about the debates before the September 12th referendum. You can't touch September 12th. You said, "But it's touched, and when the path of judgment is opened, the judgment is touched."
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0073par0567	Who did you touch?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0568	The February 28th process can't be touched. It's been said, touched, touched, and touched so badly that whoever did wrong, went against the law by using a government official...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0074par0569	Those negotiating with the PKK will also be touched.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0570	...he has to take responsibility for it and pay for it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0074par0571	Those who give instructions, send special authority, all will be touched.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0572	Now, in this House, my dear friends, if there is one party in this House that will not hesitate to investigate the unsolved murders, it is the AK PARTY (Applause from the AK PARTY) because the party that gives the clearest attitude to God about these unsolved murders is the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0075par0573	You've been in power for ten years. What have you done?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0574	We're not a party that trivializes the Ergenekon case or a party that ignores the Ergenekon-PK relationship. We want the Republic of Turkey to continue as a state of law.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0075par0575	What did you do about the unsub?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0076par0576	Give me one example. Nothing.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0577	Look, the congressman had a beautiful expression -- Mustafa Kemal Ataturk,, outside politics is about the interior. That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0075par0578	What did you do other than talk to the perpetrators?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0579	There was a structure in Turkey that didn't look at what was going on in its own neighbours because there was no inner structure until the AK PARTY rule. Now, as Turkey grows stronger in the economy, as it becomes more active in foreign policy, as it solves social problems, of course it will take more care of its neighbours.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0075par0580	What country do you live in? Which foreign policy, which one?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0581	Turkey, of course, will make more noise in the persecutions of its neighbours. We can't follow bilateral policy here.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0077par0582	1.5 million people died. Where were you in Iraq?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0583	Until yesterday, during the massacres...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0078par0584	Who bought Libyan oil, Libyan oil?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0585	... When those who pat Assad on the back of Hafiz today become critical, let the conference gather...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0079par0586	What did you do in Iraq, Iraq? What did you do in Iraq when Muslims died?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0587	Yes, we are Hafiz Assad....or Bezar Assad.... Look, you will perform the democratic transformation in this country and make history....
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0080par0588	Have fear of God.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0589	... We're members of a power force. We gave Assad a very serious incentive to move on to democracy, but when he began to oppress his people...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0080par0590	Did you do it to Saudi Arabia?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0591	... That's when the AK PARTY authority stood very clear against Assad. We can't applaud the tyrant, we can't be in a position of power that helps the tyrant.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0081par0593	You applauded Abu Ghraib. You prayed for U.S. soldiers.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0594	We're being principled, and the whole world appreciates Turkey for being principled. My dear friends, the AK PARTY has not become Ankaran. The AK PARTY maintains its original will.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0081par0596	Why, is it bad to be from Ankara or bad to be from Ankara? Ankara has national will, Parliament, where is it sinking?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0597	Today, if there are skulls in Diyarbakir, we owe it to the AK PARTY Authority. If, today, there are excavations in many parts of the southeast, as a result of these excavations, some people are being referred to courts... The unsolved murders, look, it's just...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0081par0598	Are you Brusselsed, Yerevanized, Erbilized? He's not from Ankara!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0599	...unknown murders aren't committed by some altars in the state, and today a significant part of the unsolved murders are executions on behalf of the organization, the executions of the terrorist organization. As an AK PARTY, my dear friends, we're putting this all out in the open.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0082par0600	When, when? You've been in power for ten years.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0601	We, the EC PARTY, will continue to fight until there are no unsolved murders left in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0083par0603	Start with the lighthouse, the lighthouse.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0604	Right now, our institutions are working at full strength. Let our institutions go as far as these investigations will go, the results will come out, then if needed -- not just as a group proposal -- but as a group -- our party groups in all Congress will come together...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0084par0605	You bring him in, we'll support him, you bring him in.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0070par0606	...the need to investigate this will be revealed and Congress will investigate, and Parliament will not avoid it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say I'm against this proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0085par0610	The story... you told the story again.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0086par0611	Mr. Yeniçeri, you've entered the system, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0087par0612	You talk alone, you talk alone, you make words.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0088par0613	Mr. President, I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0086par0614	Sir, what's this about?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0088par0615	And I'm here about the unsubs...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0086par0616	All right, take your seats.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0089par0617	Mr. President, there's also a taunt about my word.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0086par0618	I will, just a second. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0090par0622	Thank you, Mr. President. It's an unknown human drama, it's every conscientious person's job to make the perpetrator known, but everyone needs to know that it's the use or abuse of the unsolved, who are more cruel and severe than the unsolved. It's also inhumane to make an instrument of political ambitions the perp trauma, which has become a completely human, ethical and conscientious phenomenon. Using the unknown as an excuse to make enemies of the state, the nation, and history, my hand is far worse than the perpetrators, and it's far worse. Under this excuse, the unknown means that the government and institutions will be struck on the ground and served by state wreckers and separatists. Excavations carried out by the media with great propaganda have also been transformed into a defamation campaign within this framework. It's not about the facts, it's about the divisive and segregation.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0086par0625	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Kurkurk, where you are, please. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0091par0629	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to make my commitment to the constitution clear. I said, "Our foreign policy is reliable, and it is not a policy that is on the ground unless we have a curve and it is solid." I didn't say that, that's the word of Ataturk. Can we say that we're solid? While we have democratization problems in our system today, can we say that when eight MPs are in prison, the commander of the Navy staff is in prison, while more than 50 per cent of the admiral's staff are in prison, while 126, 128 of the other Army staff are in prison, we are strong in this body? We'll take care of our own business first, then we'll take care of someone else's. 1.5 million people died in Iraq. What did we do? Nothing. There are incidents in Syria, and we support one of the parties, instead of bringing them together to calm those events. I've drawn attention to them. For him, what I'm saying is based entirely on material data. That's what I want to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0092par0633	Thank you, Mr. Korutk. Two more of our friends are in the system. Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0093par0637	Mr. President, a member of parliament was just saying some things about Syria. What's going on in Syria is nothing more than Mr. Prime Minister's scheme to get the support of the supra global power for his own purposes. Our nation's heads are being made decisions that could be at a very high cost, and dark operations are being launched. We've come under the influence of a desperate arrogance that has combined its own goal with the projects of certain forces towards our region. We're warning the Republican People's Party. In order to consolidate their own power in Turkey, let no one engage in international misdeeds, the Turkish nation will pay the consequences very heavily, and you will be overwhelmed by them, dear friends. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0094par0640	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0095par0643	Mr. President, there's just been a statement from the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Yeniseri, which, I think, is beyond his intention, and I'm saying to the record. The decryption of a number of illegitimate structures focused within the state is not a service to separatism or discrimination; rather, the strengthening of the state is the service of unity and unity of the nation. I'd like to put that on the record. Second, the issue of Syria is never the Prime Minister's personal concern. The Prime Minister has given every effort to pave the way for democratisation in Syria. I'd like that on the record.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0094par0645	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0096par0646	Who put you up to this? Who gave it to you? The U.S. gave it to me? B.O.B. gave it to you? Who gave it to you? Did you give it to him? The Clave gave it to you? Did he give you the law? The President of the United States Bush gave it to you? Obama...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0094par0650	Dear MPs, talks on the Peace and Democracy Party Group's 19th Amendment motion have been completed. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0097par0651	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0094par0652	Those who refuse... those who refuse... are accepted. Here you go, Mr...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0097par0654	Mr. President, we asked for a roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0098par0655	You want roll call, you ignore it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0094par0656	Sustained...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0098par0657	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0094par0658	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0099par0659	Sustained. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0100par0661	Mr. President, we've requested a roll call...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0662	Mr. President, can you stop for a second? I'll finish this, I'll give it to you, sir. The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0102par0664	You did. You did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0665	I apologize.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0103par0666	Mr. President, it didn't happen.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0667	Wait a second... Mr. Hamzacebi, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0104par0669	I asked for a roll call before you put it to the vote, sir. You'll have to do a roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0670	No, I'm sorry. I really haven't.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0105par0671	We're in the accelerated thing?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0104par0672	Mr. President, I've asked for a roll call without a vote, sir, and you'll have to do a roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0673	Aye, aye. Let's do it, sir. I didn't see it. I didn't really see it. The vote is complete, there's a majority, but let's do it if you want.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0106par0676	There are many of them, he said. Where is it, Mr. President? Where do you have it? That's enough for a meeting... Where's enough for a meeting? You said there was. You said there was.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0677	Okay, I'll do it now, sir. I'll do a roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0106par0678	But there is. You said there is!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0679	I do. My friends said...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0106par0680	Count it. Don't let anyone in, count them.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0681	Mr. Vural, there are two friends...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0106par0682	Count it!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0107par0683	You're biased, you can't say there's one without a roll call or counting. You can't say there's one.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0684	Mr. Vural, there are two fellow clerks here.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0106par0685	There's enough for a meeting. They said?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0686	No, it's right here. There are friends here. Otherwise, we'll do a roll call, sir. You're welcome. There's been a mistake.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0108par0687	Mr. President, they asked for a roll call after they started voting.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0688	Mr. Ahmet, let's roll call. Okay.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0109par0691	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0692	Take the names, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0110par0693	Mr. President, you've voted.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0694	Sir, there's an objection; let's do it. Take the names, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0111par0696	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0697	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Korutuk, Mr. Tıray, Mr. Kart, Mr. Candy, Mr. Trust, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Aksınger, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Special, Mr. Ayyadın, Mr. Erdoğdu. Dear friends, now, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes again: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among the Political Party Groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. Yours truly. On Wednesday (February 01, 2012) it has been suggested that our parliamentary research proposal, which we gave to the head of the TBMM with 2730 points, should be conducted in today's Union, reading at the General Assembly (now) on Wednesday 08,02,2012, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems of the suppliers in our country. We'll make a promise to two MPs in favor and against the motion. First word, Lightning, Samsun MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0112par0720	Mr. President, there's a lot of chatter in the General Assembly, a lot of noise. I urge caution.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0101par0721	Congressmans, if we lower the hum a little bit, we might be able to hear the preacher a little easier. Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0113par0724	Mr. President, I've been promised to present our views on the problems of the Turkish tripod production and the tripod producer in favour of the group's proposal by the National Movement Party. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, I am elected to the 24th term, and for the first time, as your friend, who has participated in the work of the Grand Assembly this semester, I must first say that I am truly disappointed in the painting I see in the way our High Assembly works. In particular, I came across a mindset that acted only in terms of ideas from the ruling and ruling group, which had blocked the opposition and ignored the opposition, with a clear view of the ruling and AKP Group, which basically limited their presence here to just meeting and decision-making, only to proposals from the government and AKP Group, saying, "Yes, but without reviewing any suggestions from the opposition, and without reviewing them, and without reviewing any suggestions from the opposition. Mr. Bulent Arinc, I believe, either in 2001 or in 2002, said: "I have seen the Grand Assembly run with an understanding that lifts its fingers without reason, and therefore runs the finger democracy. " Congressmans, this is basically the painting that upsets me. Indeed, this painting is not a good picture for Turkish democracy and the Turkish Parliament. Are all the opposition parties' suggestions bad here, for God's sake? What, do they not bring a good advice to the land, and you do not accept it? Is this what you call a future, participatory democracy? I suppose that's what you mean by Turkey's democratizing. Is it democracy to mortgage Parliament's will to a group or government? Here's the amendment to the Civil Code you brought in. Will you bring forward democracy by lowering the voice of the opposition? Dear MPs, of course, the government will pass through this Parliament what they want to conduct. This should be more like what the government does about the administration. However, in this country, the constitutional amendment is carried out by the weight of the administration, which determines the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. In this country, the government, even the Prime Minister, mortgages all the duties of the legislature, which is called democracy. Dear MPs, you see, there is no need to become a priest now to know that the National Movement Party will be rejected by AKP votes for the problems of the corrupting producer, which is a major food item in the world and in our country, which is a source of income by a non-resistible population in Turkey, and that the Parliament's motion for research in Turkey will be rejected by the AKP votes. Because this problem, as there is a problem in our country that needs to be solved, is also a problem that can be solved. As long as we listen to this problem, make an effort to solve it. Dear lawmakers, we all know Turkey as a country of agriculture. Today, however, our country imports all agricultural and animal products from outside. This is a very painful picture for Turkey. Our farmer today can't make money on his grain and livestock, leaving his land, selling his land to subcontractors to work for minimum wage without job security, moving to cities, evading villages, but where he goes, he can't find a job to support himself. This sometimes causes family disasters, children leaving their homes and going the wrong way, divorces are increasing. Precious lawmakers are making an unremarkable number of dictating plants in Turkey and are trying to earn a living. As I said above, he can't get any income to support his family, so every year I'll owe the banks a little more money and save the business next year. However, based on the policy on the tripod, it seems that with these policies, there is no way to get rid of the debt of the manufacturer. In Turkey, the cities that produce the most tics are Samsun, Çorum, Çorum, Sinop, İzmir, Manisa, Balıkesir and Kastamun, respectively. The government adopts the policy of importing food and animal products, as it does in all kinds of food and animal products, rather than developing the product inside. It also reduces production in the country, the village is getting poorer, the villages are coming apart, the business is going up, and the country's economy is being damaged when there's a chance to increase production. Efficiency from the earth in the unit field is constantly increasing. The world's gyrical efficiency average is 420 kilograms. Egypt ranked first at 950 kilograms in efficiency. Turkey, on average, is above the world average with an average of about 600-700 square efficiency. While many countries around the world produce tics, both exports and imports, Turkey is only importers on the tripod. In 2007, Turkey imported 215,000 tonnes of rice, 191 000 tons of rice in 2008, and 212,000 tonnes in 2009. As it turns out, it is not a country capable of producing tics, but it is a country that has the potential to qualify for itself. Turkey is an importer of rice for many reasons. To put the most important ones: In the first place, when you look at the support given to the tripod manufacturers, you realize that it's very little, and it's just for show. Mazota per dekar is only 7.5 lira, and soil analysis support is 2.5 lira. You can also pay $100 per ton. However, their failure to pay on time and delay prevent support from reaching its goal. The farmer receives between 600 and 700 kilograms of products per decarnated, and in return, support per decave is around 60-65 Turkish liras. The cost of a single tranq is 700-800 lira. It's not right to set the relative price of the tripod, because the price of the tripod manufacturer for 1 kilogram in Turkey costs 0.33 dollars, while the US spends 0.16 dollars on 1 kilogram in chips. Today, while the United States is an exporter at the plate, Turkey is unfortunately an importer country. The problem in the second degree is that lack of irrigation water is one of the major problems of the tripod manufacturer. Water inadequacy has a significant effect on production. Instead of supplying the public's water to the tripod manufacturer, handing it over to the corporations is a question of the future of the production of chips. Instead of developing production, the government sees imports as a solution, as in everything else, and it also leads to the failure of production as it drags the manufacturer into poverty. Entering our country is very expensive, and it holds an important place. The price of motors, electricity, medicines, water, equipment and tools used in the ring is very high for rice producer countries. Thus, Turkey has no chance of competing with countries that produce rice in the world, as it has always been. For water, the farmer pays 50 lira per pot. The VAT of the electric dryer is still 18 percent. Prices detected today and placed in front of the manufacturer are lower than the cost. Under the cost, the price policies affect the direction of production as well as the failure to bring it to the manufacturer because it no longer produces farmers. The rice importer's prices, which correspond to the harvest of rice farmers who produce rice, or are brought in, are drawn down. In this case, prices and policies announced in Turkey remain allegedly, while a handful of importers emerge as pricemakers. Agriculture insurance is very inadequate in Turkey, and it is also very difficult to influence the production of the tripod. The insurance company's damage criteria are determined by its own interests, not by the farmer's benefit. The New Agricultural Insurance Act is nothing more than the government's money being transferred over farmers to companies because it is necessary for farmers to cross the fields in order to compensate for the damage caused by rain or floods to become unusable. In Turkey, such a disaster is difficult to create. The VAT problem in rice is another problem. Dear lawmakers, the VAT (KDV) is one percent when it's in a ricochet shell. The rice that comes out of it after its shell is 8 percent...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0114par0740	Mr. Lightning, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0113par0741	I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the General Assembly and pay their respects.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0114par0743	Against the proposal, Mr. Iron Steel... Here you go, Mr. Steel. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0115par0746	Mr. President, my highly respected congresswoman friends, I will speak in favor of the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the problems of the corrupt manufacturers. May I present your attention. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are a country with an important agricultural potential as far as their latitude and longitude, the location of our country, which is 780,000 square miles [780,000 km] across the globe. However, we have not restored that potential to a position that is in line with its purpose, facing the well-being of our people. In today's modern-day Turkey, where we are discussing problems based on agriculture and animalism, particularly the tripod producer, we carry the burden of our wrong policies and our wrong projection of the problem. Imagine that a country with its own self-sustainable tic potential has become an importing position, importing rice from the world. Rice, which is a high starch, its importance at the feeding point, and it's particularly at a positive point in the world's harmony with wheat, but we've stayed away from an understanding and perception that promotes production. In Thrace, initially the Middle Black Sea and Interior Anatolia, a watery, alkali and salty land-loving product has suffered losses today from our lack of importance, which may be alternative to many products that, in comparison with other products, cannot be grown and therefore, cannot be productive. We've come to a position that wants to produce with a female fingernail, to hold the hands of a producer who wants to contribute to the development of the country, encourage it, support its activities with subsidies and benefits, but disrupt it while it should be, preventing the manufacturer from operating with import-based substitution policies. It's like this in wheat, in livestock, in cotton, in tea, in nuts, in figs, in grapes... In short, the country of agriculture, which is also an animal country, Turkey, is trying to collect votes in the name of a political project that is being deprived of its basic demands and deprived of its self-profits, while the producer has the means to provide for himself, while the political authorities are supposed to be a pre-eminent supporter of the society, while they are also trying to raise votes in the name of the public's pre-election, because they have their own domestic production relations based on its own potential. This may reflect on power at a temporary point, on political parties, on actors as a bonus to the gains, but in our country, where poverty, poverty is the height of poverty, it will also lead to a deeper and more insurmountable level of political and social trauma in our country, where 25 million people are in poverty, around 11 percent of us are unemployed. Therefore, the redesigning of our country's dynamics, instead of palliative, temporary solutions, is the shortest and most accurate way to do so -- to support producers who are working on it -- from the register to the cotton, from there to the beat. Imagine that a policy based on the import of sacrifices at every Memorial Day upsets all of us and upsets our producer. Many of our manufacturers couldn't sell their livestock before last year's Festival of Sacrifice. The high tax has also been exposed to the implementation of banks, not being able to pay the debt that is now available, but also being able to deal with problems stemming from their inputs at the food and seeding point. It's possible to say the same thing about the tripod manufacturer. In addition, the care, the watering conditions, the collection and delivery point are very expensive, because the mazot is the most expensive country around the world, but not enough, because it is the 8 percent of its VAT, and because it consumes 18 percent of it at every point of its production activity, there are no serious openings and problems. An opportunity to improve this, to bring the problem and problems of the tripod manufacturer into our agenda of the House, falls to the lawmakers and political parties who carry out the legislature more than anyone else. When we do this, we make sure that our people look to the future with confidence from the anxiety of our youth, and in that way, we prevent a psychological, sociological part of this country from being deprived of everything else. In this respect, if we can make laws, make laws, save ourselves from a perception that will serve power and hegemonic relationship, put the basic demands of society, the problems of health, agriculture, and the problems of animalism into the agenda of our Parliament, if we can bring the solutions to our agenda, if we can share them, we can save our country, our country, our people, if we can put them in a framework for the human condition of production, employment, today, our people will be the winners, the citizens of our country. First of all, we have to act on a sense of the happiness of our citizens from today to tomorrow, without delay, without fail. This motion as the Peace and Democracy Party states that we will demonstrate the necessary sensitivity to investigate, vote in favour, support the efforts of our producers, and salute your high delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0116par0757	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Now, in favor of Hatay MP Hasan Akgöl. Here you are, Mr. Akgöl. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0117par0762	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on the group's proposal for the problems of the LLP manufacturer. I hereby salute your high council. Here, it's not right to just say "trick" and limit the situation. The same problems that are happening in the country are happening in the entire agricultural sector. Rice, the most consumed product in the world after wheat, is between 6 and 7 kilograms in Turkey, although in some countries consumption is up to 200 kilograms annually. Although Turkey is not the main food ingredient, it has an important place in food culture. Unfortunately, we are importers in the rice that we have the potential to produce in the country. We have to import 20 to 25 percent of what we need now, and we have about 80 to 100 million dollars in exchange for this import. Governments adopt import policies instead of developing the product inside. These policies reduce farmers' prosperity and production, while also damaging the country's economy. The problem must be resolved immediately. In recent years, the amount produced by the unit field, which is the transformation, is increasing. But even though the amount produced when you hit the turnover is increasing every semester, the amount of the tripod we import is not dropping, on the contrary, it's increasing. There are several reasons for that. Rice is not the basic food ingredient of Turkish people. Turkey's main food is wheat. Turkey is a self-sufficient country in the production of tics. Only he has the potential to qualify himself. My MHP speaker friend has just stated that the amount of support for all grain products is very low, not just a tripod, but a tripod. That's about $7.5. It is also a matter of lack of support and not being given in time. Support must be given in time to achieve its goal. Although the farmer has acquired 600 to 700 kilograms of products per pot, his support is between 60 and 65 cents, and the support he has received for the past four years is the same. Although costs are increasing, the price of support is 10 cents per kilogram. If you drop the cuts, it's about eight cents. The cost of a tranq manufacturer per decarnated is between $600 and $700. So cost production doesn't cover cost sales. Watering is one thing. One of the reasons why farmers who are already producing tics don't produce any more is the watering problem. The failure to direct public investments to water supply, the public handing over water to companies instead of converting it to companies, is considered suspicious of the future of the production of policies. Instead of developing production, governments view imports as a solution, it also leads to production not only to lower the level of well-being of the manufacturer, but also to improve production. Friends, the entrances are expensive; the diesel is expensive, the fertilizer is expensive, the medicine is expensive. With these inputs, it's extremely risky to produce other grain products. The government must consider the cost of input and set the price of support based on this. Look, we're talking about a catch. The current price of the ring is 80 cents. Look at the price it cost four years ago, 80 cents again. Look at the costs four years ago. Look at the costs now. You put yourself in this farmer's shoes. Costs are two times, three times, four times higher, product price is the same. How are you going to make a profit? This country is an agricultural country. This country is a grain barn. This is the country that produces countries. This country boasts of its agriculture. This country is a country that boasts of its peasant. You can't aim to finish our proud farmer. Prices are way below the cost. It's impossible to produce at these prices. My friend just told me about the agricultural insurance. Right, yeah, right now, if we give the government officials the microphone, they're going to say, "Well, we're going to cover 50% of the insurance as a state." So, I'll ask you: 50 percent as a state, the amount from the farmer's pocket has changed? It hasn't changed. So, what do you get? You're paying the price you paid for the company, and there's nothing else you're paying for it. The money from the farmer's pocket hasn't changed. What did you contribute to the farmer's pocket? You're looking at cotton, the price of support has been the same for the last three or four years; you're looking at rice, you're looking at the wreath, the same thing; you're looking at wheat, same thing. You're looking at product prices, you're looking at olive prices, and I'm not an olive farmer, but olives are growing in my area -- the price of olive oil has been the same for the last five years; cotton prices have been going back to where they've been going for the last five years; they've been going back to where they're going to go. Two times the cost, three times the cost. So, how do you support the farmer? How will you support the farmer? Look, friends, I'm telling you, without looking at the farmer's arm as to which arm he's farming -- pixels, cotton-picking, bling, wheat business, livestock, etc -- all farmers' loans to banks immediately, their energy debt to distribution companies, their debt to agriculture loans must be postponed very urgently, very urgently, for at least a year, for two years without interest. The farmer is unable to plant the next product, let alone the damage. Please, the government shouldn't ignore that. And I'd like to talk about the flood in my area. Guys, Hatay's had a bad flood. The plantations in Hatay were flooded. The Hatay farmer, let alone damage, is unable to plant the next product, the Hatay farmer, is unable to plant the next product. The government must immediately make a determination in the region and pay the farmer's losses. You can't expect the water to drain, fellas. How long before the water drains? I specifically ask members of the ruling party to take care of Hatay, members of the opposition. Look, you guys, if you do damage assessments based on CKS documents, you farm registration systems, you agricultural county managers' records, you can't remove the farmer. Very urgently, if requested, within the hour. The satellite detects areas that are damaged, costs are subtracted, and the farmer's victims are compensated. If there's a farmer in this country, if the farmer wins, this wheel spins, and if the farmer doesn't win, there's no turning this wheel. If we keep the farmer alive, the shopkeeper will survive. So, I think that farmer and agricultural policy should be reviewed over and over again and taken care of the farmer. I want everyone to have it, without the power of opposition. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0118par0777	Thank you, Mr. Akgöl. Now, to the contrary, Mr. Ahmet Yeni, the Samsun MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. New, ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0119par0781	Give me a speech against the plastic manufacturers.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0782	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I present to you today the opinion of our Justice and Development Party regarding the problems brought to the agenda by the National Movement Party, and I salute your grand delegation and our great nation. Mr. President, we continue to work with all our efforts for Turkey's democratisation and enrichment in an understanding that has produced services, solved problems since 2002. We walk along the path of our nation, along with our nation. Our secret is intimacy, our language is love, our purpose is peace. The EC PARTY is a party that surrounds the nation, worries about its woes, embraces its sensitivities, speaks to the public in heart, considers Turkey's interests, peace and future. The EC PARTY is a symbol of service, democracy, stability, inner and external power and dignity. The Justice and Development Party is Turkey's leader of production, change, development. It's a guarantee of differences, freedoms, individual choices, all kinds of democratic reactions. The Justice and Development Party is a hearty party, not just for the Turkish people, but for the welfare and well-being of all mankind. The EC PARTI works to solve problems that seem unresolved, to overcome issues that seem to be Turkey's usual shackles, to achieve imaginary goals, to strengthen unity and unity, and to strengthen our brotherhood. He sees every inch of the country from east to west, north to south. It's a party that pays for every effort from its worker to its artist, its farmer to its bureaucrat, and its laborer's sweat. AK PARTY is a party that illuminates its path with a sense of responsibility, moral weight, conscientious responsibility. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party, since 2002, have continued to address our country's problems, our nation's problems, step by step. Of course, our country has had problems piling up for years. And that's what we've been doing for ten years. And to solve these problems, as you know, we work day and night. We have fulfilled our promises to our great nation to this day. This country had a road problem. Before we came to power, we promised a double mile, and now we're past that, and we're moving forward. There were problems with airlines, and I want to give you an example: In 2002, two or three planes from Samsun took off a day from Samsun, and today -- we travel with Mr. Cemalettin Simsek Bey. 20 to 25 planes leave a day. That's where we're coming from, and that's where we're going. The airlines will be the way of the people. Someone was disturbed that day, but now, thank God, we've solved that. Dear brothers and sisters, members of lawmakers, continue to do your best not to employ us. Our nation is following us closely, and as you know, we were in Samsun this weekend, participating in the work at Samsun. I also invite him to watch the work in Samsun. Every week we set up a foundation, all over Turkey, and we're going to Samsun, or we're going to open up.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0121par0788	Talk to the chiropractor, the tic maker.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0789	Yes, dear MPs, of course we have problems with the tripod, and we'll continue to solve them, so don't worry. Now I'd like to fill you in on the part about the tripod. Dear lawmakers, our population is now, as you know, over 75 million. Of course, our needs continue to grow at this rate. There's bound to be problems with our plastic manufacturers, and we're living in them personally. And as a child of a family that raises static, I'm talking here. In the old days, the animals and I were planting rice in the mud fields, and today we are planting with modern technical tools and we are still planting. Our provinces, like Samsun, Edirne, Balıkesir, Çanakkale, Bursa, Çorum, Sinop, Kastamonu, are especially produced and we live in them together. Dear lawmakers, I only want to give you -- for example -- in the Plain of Bafra, in 2002, it was 20,000 to 30,000 tons, and today it was over 100,000 tons. See, in 2002, 20,000 or 30,000 tons are produced today, only in Bafra Plains, over 100,000 tons. While 30 or 40,000 acres are being planted, today only in our area, in the area where we live with Jamalettin Bey, there are 120,000 acres of kiltik produced. If these people aren't making money, why are they going to increase their tripod production? Here, I'd like to share some numbers with you on this one.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0122par0792	Look at the bank loans from the plastic manufacturer, rising every year.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0793	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were planted 60,000 hectares in Turkey in 2002, while 103,567 hectares in 2011 today. Did we double it, give or take? We did. I'm talking about the production tone. I've talked to numbers all the time.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0123par0795	You've always fooled me with numbers, Mr. Ahmet, always with numbers.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0796	For ten years, I've been talking to numbers from this bench for ten years, valued lawmakers. Production...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0123par0797	You've always said exports, you've always fooled them with numbers.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0798	I'll tell you... I'm telling you the production tone: there was 360 thousand tons of tic production in 2002, and today in 2011, 900,000 tons -- almost tripled -- were produced in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0124par0800	How much tic do you import?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0801	Yes, I'm saying import: 2002 and 2003, while 373,816 tons...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0125par0802	How much rice were you importing in 2002, and how much are you now?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0803	I'm telling you, there were 310,605 tons of imports, 362,000 tons today. In 2002, we had 65 million people, yes, 75 million people today.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0125par0804	How much did you import in 2002, how much do you import now?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0805	The import difference, please, you do the math.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0125par0806	What are we supposed to do, you're talking numbers!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0120par0807	Mr. President, I'd like to briefly mention the support we've given to the corrupt manufacturers so far: it will continue to implement support in order to increase domestic production. As of 2011, the plastic product is paid 10 cents per kilogram -- $87 per pound -- incrementally black. Also, we're doing $4.75 for diesel support, $4.75 for fertilizer, seed support, $8 for soil analysis, $2.5 for a total of $105.90, and then these bonus payments will continue. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, we have a real problem with the added value, and there's also a study going on, and hopefully we'll continue to solve that problem here together. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we have to act not only with the rice producers, we have to work with the producers, we have to deal with the rice eaters, we have to deal with the people who do. On a one-sided basis, yes, the rice is too expensive, citizen. Today, we have a problem with our tripod manufacturers, but they're happy because they grow vegetables in the plains where we are, so they're making money, which means that they're still growing. We've traveled some serious distances in the irrigation field. We continue by increasing irrigation fields in each area. In the past years, water has been brought from long distances from the rivers, and water has been extracted from deep distances, and watering is easier today with canals and canals. There are problems, and their solution address is the Justice and Development Party. With these thoughts and feelings, I offer you all love and respect. But, of course, we have other things to do today, other things to do. I'd like to extend my regards to all of you, as well as to the fact that we're against this proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0126par0813	Thank you, Mr. New.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0127par0814	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0126par0815	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0128par0816	President, look, I didn't see it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0126par0817	Wait a second... We've got two friends coming in. Mr. Köse, he's in the system. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0129par0822	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I'm a member of the Corrum Province, which is being produced. However, as the AKP's representative said, the tripe producer in Samsun may be pleased -- I don't believe it -- but unfortunately the manufacturer in Çorum, in Süskilp, in Osmancık, in Kargük, is not satisfied. And we're going to be watching here a little bit later today, and the motion to investigate the problems of the tripod manufacturer will be rejected by the AKP MP, who has never seen the tripod production in his life. But know this -- months of women, daughters, elderly, young people -- with their bare feet in those lake landscapes -- that if the proposal for research of these manufacturers' problems is rejected here today, they will be on you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0126par0825	Thank you. Mr. Millerdere...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0130par0828	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs Edirne provide 55 percent of our country's tripod production. The Edirne is produced in a land of close to 450-500,000 acres, but as Mr. Samsun MP mentioned in the past few years, there has been an increase in the production of rice, which is true, but especially in this year's price policy, the sales price is 85-90 cents. In Thrace, the chocolate manufacturer also sheds blood. I'm afraid the Honorable Congressman hasn't met with his tic makers recently, and he's still living last year. If the research motion is not accepted and not taken into account the problems of the tripod manufacturers, production will actually drop rapidly. We're gonna have a real problem with that, too.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0126par0831	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0131par0834	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Biga region of Çanakkale, there was not even a return of the money that was invested in the last - sufferings - during this period. We know that it is not possible that today's money in at least two years, including this year's Baldo -- including Cyprus -- is actually backward and their future profits in Biga. In that sense, I would like to point out that what was told earlier does not reflect the reality of Turkey. I think it would be right for him to accept the motion to investigate by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I offer my deepest love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0132par0838	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0133par0839	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0132par0843	Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. I submit to your votes the resolution of the National Party for Action under Article 19 of the Civil Code: those who accept... those who do not accept... [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] There's been a disagreement between the clerks. We're going into the system and I'll give you two minutes, sir. Here you go. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the group proposal has been rejected. Congressmans, now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: 08.02.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 08,02,2012 meeting Wednesday (Today), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. At 06,02,2012, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and his friends suggested that the Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's "Investigation of the problems of arrested and convicted students" be read in the same joint collection of its talks on the same date, before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly (244 rank). Now I'm going to make a promise to our two fellow lawmakers in favor of the proposal and against it. The first word is for Mr. Veli Ağbaba. In favour of the Malatya MP. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0134par0865	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to a motion to investigate the matter of the arrested and convicted student. I salute you all. Unfortunately, in our country, young people are not allowed to be opposed. Even the smallest claim is met with pressure and violence. Surveillance, arrest, conviction and expulsion continue as a storm of persecution. This storm of persecution is ruining our young people's lives. These unfair and undemocratic attitudes have been moved to the country's agenda as a matter of detention student issue. This issue is the product of a two-legged monster. One leg of this monster is the AKP patented special authority courts; the other is the other leg, patented, barracks. Dear friends, I'm going to share with you some of the elements of the trial and evidence, and I hope that the AKP's monster and student issue will be better understood. Dear MPs, opening banners for free education, haircutting, carrying umbrellas, carrying eggs, carrying eggs, selling concert tickets, criticizing university administration, participating in the 8 March World Women's Day (May 1st), remembering Deniz Gezmiş, protesting the YOK, reading books, reading books, and ideical rope. Do not say that such a crime is evidence? Because it has all happened, and most of the time it has been considered as an organizational crime. Unfortunately, sometimes organizations are imaginations, sometimes dreams are organizations. For example, the Hrant Dink case was an organization, it was a dream. And now I'm going to tell you what happened when I was a dream, and I'm going to give you examples of the incredible crimes that just happened. Our young people, Ferhat and Berna, asked for a free education, served a year and a half in prison, and were expelled from school. Money-free education is everybody's right. I'm against this country's idea of paid education that eliminates the right to education for poor children. Or is the AKP Group defending mercenary training? Is that why you lock up people who want free education, and that's why you throw them out of school? How is getting a haircut an organized crime? How does a haircut prove you're a member of an organization? Does your conscience accept that? Or is it just an excuse to shut up the opposition youth, get a haircut? Jahan the Pocket goes to jail. We say this, and a minister comes out of the Cabinet, and he says: "There is not only a bag, but also a Molotov. " First, the minister is not telling the truth, there is no such charge against Jahan, even in the indictment. Secondly, the Minister is desecrating the purity of innocence and has clearly affected the court. Another minister for Farhad and Berna, who opened the banner without money, said: "Not only is there a banner but also an organizational connection." That's your justice. If Kurdish music and halay are seen as a cause for increase in doubt -- pardon me -- then justice is on vacation here. If young people are expelled from school with poor interpretations of ideas such as ideological halay, it's called fascism. Mikail Boz, who criticised the dean on a website, received a month's suspension. Mikail is lucky because even worse happened to Gizem Görnaz, who criticised his identity card for receiving money under the name "forgiving" and was sentenced to 11 months and 20 days in prison. Judgement is used as an instrument of silence, destruction of young people. This is the AKP version of September 12 mentality. You want a young people who don't think, a quiet society? In what democratic country of the world is it a crime to make a press statement, to participate in May 1st, to take part in the World Women's Day of March 8th? During the AKP period, they were considered crimes. On March 8th, you turned Whiteıt Square into a women's square, and on May 1st, you turned Saloon Square into a pepper spray square, remember? Now you condemn and condemn young people for these crimes. In recent days, you have punished young people in Malatiah for these so - called offenses. Young people in college were sentenced to eight to thirteen years in prison. You attacked Deniz Gezmiş and his friends' memorial event, and you took 33 people into custody with batons and drags them to the ground. You have suspended Mesut Can Türk, Aylin Kaplan and Yakupcan Telci. The sea is a symbol of a time of travel, a pride of patriotism, the face of this country. If it's a crime to remember the seas, then the Republican People's Party, each of which is a revolutionary, is operating every day. Come and judge us if you can. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The student, Hero Ergun, was sued for forty-four months in prison per egg that came out of his bag. He's being tried for carrying three eggs for 11 years. Do you plan on taking the egg into arms? Are you afraid your suit will be stained? But aren't you suing for your suits? A minister who put on a show in Europe, demanding two years in prison for this reason, filed a lawsuit against a student named Nihal Tzariccı. The student named Virgo Baydar is being tried for being a member of the organization, but it's unclear which organization.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0135par0877	Mr. Secretary, in the ranks of the Council of Ministers...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0136par0878	I want them to follow up on the job, follow up on the job...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0137par0879	Dear friends, let's hear from the preacher, please. Sit down... Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0138par0881	Another student is being held in prison for membership in four different organisations. A boy named Ridvan Steel is sentenced to 14 years and nine months in prison in case his hand is singing in applause. Velev who sang, chanted, and punished a man for song and slogan? You turned Turkey into Hitler Germany. This is not Hitler Germany. Trials against young people are not enough, and unjust and unlawful practices are being carried out by barracks-looking universities. Initiating 1985 coup patented disciplinary boards. The detained, arrested students are being suspended without a verdict. The AKP, founder of unjust law and unlawful judgment, is the number one defendant of this painting. In Denizli, the press release sentences the students who condemn the NGO. It was a crime to protest. Isn't it already a crime? The SEC is the university massacre of the coup, crushed autonomy and freedom under the boot; it's a disgrace to democracy. Protesting the PLO is the virtue of democracy, which should be rewarded, but it's a shame to be a DSR, it's a disgrace to be a journalist, it's a theft of the media, it's an injustice of the encrypted test, it's a crime of plagiarism, it's a crime of science. These are the ones who must be punished. (HPP) You can't stop the punishment for DGTism, Lanternism, cryptography, plagiarism, because you're cutting the branch you're riding. Sixty-seven books, held at the homes of imprisoned young people under the Hopa case, have been briefed one by one, considered a criminal element. Why are you afraid of books? Are you afraid of the power of knowledge? Do you struggle in the haste of cruelty? Our population, dear friends, is only 90/1 of the world's population. More than a third of the people in prison for terror on Earth are in Turkey's prisons. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I ask you, are our mothers giving birth to members of the organization, or is there something wrong with this mindset that makes 30 times the difference? It's the mindset that condemns young people from the council bench. A minister says: "Let him go to prison who wants freedom. " The minister says this is the product of this mentality. So the prime minister who promises prisons is the product of this mentality. See, that's the problem with the mindset. What kind of youth can this mentality bring up? One type, silent, unquestioning, unthinking, unprovoked, captive and obedient youth leads us to disaster. A democratic, liberal, thinking, questioning, producing youth will bring us to light. Bad laws are the worst form of persecution. Let's change the law. No persecution, no mercy, just justice. Let's get justice. Youth will come. Let's not rot our future in prisons. Dear friends, I'd like to finally read a mother's cry from here. She says: "Did Joseph Yilmaz kill a man? Did he sell drugs?" What did Joseph Yilmaz do, take a gun in his hand? Let my son finish his studies, and let him finish his studies. These are the words of Joseph Yilmaz, the mother of the imprisoned student, Eve Yilmaz. And what was his crime? Asking for free education, selling concert tickets, attending May Day events. Dear friends, this is a crime, this is punishment. You will set these Josephs free, or the two hands of the mothers of Joseph will be on your sides. I look forward to your support for the acceptance of this proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0139par0890	Thank you, Mr. Agha. İstanbul MP Brült Turan against Republican People's Party Group Proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0894	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have taken a pledge against the Republican People's Party's group proposal to bring up the motion to investigate under arrest university students. On this occasion, I salute you all. My dear friends, before we get to the point, it's good to be clear that no party can compete with our young people's investments with our understanding of freedom, our understanding of how to fulfill the rights of our college students. I think it's absurd to talk about it when we look at it clearly, compared to what's been done so far in the last eight decades.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0141par0896	I swear to God, that's it!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0897	I'm telling the fellow who says, "This is as good as it gets! Let's take a look together: For example, when we came to power in 2002, the number of universities in Turkey was 76, and today the number is up to 165.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0141par0898	How many students were in prison when you came to power?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0899	In 2002, the number of dorms was 193, and today the 305 is passing. Dear friends, all of our students know that scholarships and loan increases are more reasonable than funny numbers. We all know that the 45-dollar college scholarship went up to $260 today. Intimacy is obvious. Since our people have seen the work done very clearly, the EC supports the PARTI (AK) by increasing its vote, even though it is only three periods in its power. If there was a painting like you said, if there was a sense of defamation, reverse, prohibiting rights at the university, our people would never have given us a blank check on this. But what I'm saying, dear friends, is that we've tried our best to increase our universities as much as we can, both in quantity and quality. For example, let only the army strike in his hand. You all know that in these years, an army has given the right to choose a representative for university students. You know that thousands of our students have been sent abroad to meet our academic needs. Now, you all know that there's a SEC doing its job, and it's doing a lot of good.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0142par0903	I thought you said it was bad.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0143par0904	Wasn't that bad, RD?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0905	Dear friends, no problems? Look, there is a problem, of course, but what I'm trying to say, dear friends, is that the solution to these problems is not to use our students to prevent the coming Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0144par0906	We're taking a leave of absence?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0907	The only way to resolve these problems is to make a new Constitution together, where people are on their side, and all the troubles of the nation are reflected in the spirit of the nation.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0145par0908	In the Old Constitution, education is paid for. Is it written?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0909	While we insist on the new Constitution, we see that our Republican People's Party friends are only angry with us as we want to discuss the construction and other fundamental issues. But we all have to sit at the table and do business together, work things out, put all the problems on the table.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0145par0910	Are we sitting at a different table? We're at the same table.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0911	Dear friends, I'd like to make another point. We, our orator friend, have just stated that when the arrest of our students comes to the agenda, it's only as if the students who lay eggs against power are being punished, as if there were no one else. Look, I'm going to read another chapter from our Minister of Justice's response to questions asked by our Republican People's Party friends. Nurettin Demir asked our friend, and he says: "What are the arrest categories of students arrested in college? There is no hooking up like you said. I'm reading: murder, drugs, extortion, theft, assault, sexual assault, fraud, fraud, continuing. So, what you're saying is, it's a big deal. I'm a teenager, I did college stunts. (CHP rows) I've done college stunts, guys, and I'm proud of it. If a college student doesn't know how to behave in his youth, he won't be able to when he's older. College student...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0145par0913	Look, the kid who went to college was 12 years old ten years ago.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0914	If you listen, I'll continue.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0145par0915	Who are you talking about? Tell me your name again.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0146par0916	Say his name, say it again.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0140par0917	I just want to say that when a college student is his age, if he can't stand up to his own school, which he can't when he's older. I mean, every college student has every right to take a stand, to fulfill his democratic rights, to express it properly, but...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0147par0918	How does it work like a man?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0148par0919	How's he doing? Describe the man, the man.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0149par0920	You'll get the description of the man.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0921	But... once again, if your sense of freedom causes another person's actual distress, another problem, then of course people will say stop.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0151par0922	Wow, that's it! You're a young man.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0149par0923	Mr. Bulent, this is your idea of democracy.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0924	I'll tell you something else: everyone who's a lawyer knows that criminal responsibility, legal responsibility, and disciplinary responsibility are different. So when an act is not criminally criminal, it could be disciplinary action or vice versa. Look...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0152par0926	Do you have a gun or do you have violence? What did he do? It's just a banner.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0927	Mr. Veli, you're just yelling. Listen, let's talk together. I listened when you guys were talking, and I listened in the front. Take it easy. Look, I'm asking your friend's question.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0153par0928	You're like the Minister of Justice, one journalist comes out and says "terrorist." You put them all in the same category. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0929	Look, Sena Kaleli is your friend, she asked a question and the Minister of Justice is answering. I'm just not gonna read a name for safety. The question he's asking is: I'm asking a question about the person who was arrested for wearing the boot, who was arrested or something. You're saying: "Criminal: wearing the post." Look, he says, this court, this number, I'm passing through. ..as a result of the investigation into the armed organization he was arrested in his court of law, the abuse of property, the use of dangerous substances without permission, possession, changing hands, resisting duty. The charges against the accused, as you said, were to wear the post. There is no such thing as a crime. So, dreaming and doing business are different things.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0154par0930	Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's in the indictment.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0931	If we have problems, I say again, we find a new constitution to solve them. It is also a question of sincerity to pretend that the NGO is more democratic, that college students are becoming more meaningful, that we all commit crimes that are not, as if there is no terrorist organization, and that they are being punished.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0155par0932	Yes, you've called everyone who opposes you a terrorist organization. Then this side of the House is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0933	Look, I'll tell you something else, my dear friends, the motion is not a sincere suggestion. I believe that...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0156par0934	Why?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0935	Why? I'll tell you. Intimacy is visible, intimacy is understandable, only paperwork and writing mean nothing, intimacy is the essence.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0157par0936	Judge one corruption charge, show your sincerity. There's Ali Babacan in the back.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0937	If you were sincere about college students' demands...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0157par0938	All the thieves are outside, the students are inside. Is that it?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0939	... If you were sincere about the problems of college students, the name of this motion would not be researched by students, but by those who have sued the court for a resuscitated coefficient problem, which is one.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0158par0941	You bring him with you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0942	Second, if you were sincere, sincere to solve the problems of college students...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0159par0943	You stole the exam questions and sold them. What coefficient are you talking about? You made me steal the kids' work!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0944	What are the crimes of these imprisoned students?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0159par0945	Where are the people who stole the exam questions? The perpetrators are among you, then.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0160par0946	Look at your group, look at your left.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0947	Are you going to listen or not? Again, if you were sincere, the title of this investigation should be this: there should be a proposal to investigate the convincing rooms, the perpetrators among us.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0161par0950	It's between you two.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0951	No one can stand between us and our college students and build a wall. If there's a mistake, it's us who solve it, not CHP. Our whole nation already knows how CHP made the motion, how CHP was able to come up with the solution. So we're running, we're running, we're in, we're out, the result is the same.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0161par0952	If you make a fair choice, it'll change a lot. Buy all the media, all the money, the government's money...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0953	Intimacy -- you'll never laugh -- is visible. If you are sincere, you will get results both in this Law and in these proceedings.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0162par0954	Don't trust that 50 percent!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0955	Our university students' motions today have a purpose, dear friends, to prevent a more democratic Civil Code from passing through this Parliament. If you had been concerned about the problems of college students, you would have brought this up before the Civil Code came to this assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0163par0956	What you're defending is fascism, nothing more.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0150par0957	I say we vote no to this motion, full of lies and slanders, completely lack of sincerity, lack of content, lack of vision, and that there will be more meaningful, more serious proposals if there is a chance that this matter will be concerned, and I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0164par0959	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0165par0960	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0164par0961	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0165par0962	Picking on our group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0164par0963	Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0165par0964	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0166par0965	Sir, I've got a little pick-me-up myself, and I'd like to take my word for it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0167par0966	Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with you about the motion.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0168par0967	Hold on, hold on. Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0169par0971	Mr. President, thank you. The speaker just came out here as if he were targeting the Republican People's Party, dear friends. But we think that this person who used the word "fail" should return first and look at him. Now in this country... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] If you'll just shut up, we'll talk more calmly.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0170par0976	Tell there, tell Veli.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0169par0977	Now, dear friends, there is a serious freedom problem in this country. Obviously, that's why we're hardly gonna have tourists in our country. You're trying to arrest journalists, intellectuals and writers from the U.S., as if there were none left in this country, as if they were not arrested, and you're trying to make them look even today. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] As if what you did to the Lighthouse prosecutors in this country wasn't enough, some of your members have a great desire to arrest the prosecutors and judges in Germany, and we feel it. In this country, believe me, no one is free, only because of you in this country, money is free, money is free! You're just defending the freedom of money, not the freedom of man! (CHEERING) You only care about money. Look, you've made education a mass production object in this country. Education in this country has become a mass production object because of you. You're the friends of a generation that only perceives raising a human being as one form of raising a human being.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0171par0982	Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0169par0983	In the face of those who object, your Prime Minister tried to bring in five thousand, ten thousand black shirts, against him, against our young people. Your Prime Minister had the nerve to even say that. You hid those who caused Hrant Dink's death, and you tweaked them today, and gave them stars.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0172par0985	Mr. Tarhan, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0169par0986	Take care of yourself. You've shut down Parliament TV. You're trying to turn our voices down by changing the Civil Code today, but you won't be able to do it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0172par0987	Mr. Tarhan, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0169par0988	I said there aren't only dictators in dictatorships, you don't understand; we'll tell you, you'll find out.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0172par0990	Mr. Tarhan, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0173par0991	Mr. President, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0174par0992	I want your word on what happened earlier.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0172par0993	Please... one at a time.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0175par0994	He's asked for a promise before.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0174par0995	But I promise you, Mr. President, there's been a taunt before.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0172par0996	When the Deputy Directors of the Group want to speak to them first, I'll give you one, please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0176par0998	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I believe the speaker just made a promise against the CHP group proposal. Naturally, he had to testify against the CHP proposal. CHP, of course, if he looks in the mirror, I think he'll see that the phrases are incomplete, even inadequate.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0177par1001	He can't call us perpetrators. You're the perp.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0176par1002	Dear friends, this nation has not forgotten the chamber of persuasion, nor has this nation forgotten its coefficient injustice. You're the ones who took the problem away and made it a problem again, and you're the ones who made it unresolved, but, God willing, we're going to make this whole thing go away, and we're going to fix it here again. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, again, you said the only type in education, not just in education, but in every field, the AK PARTI has eliminated its monotype, one type in every field. One kind of person, one party mind, will forget about raising people.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0178par1005	You're taking him to the only party.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0176par1006	This country will become a more democratic, freer country.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0178par1007	We bring democracy, you bring one party.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0176par1008	Those who killed Hrant Dink and others are exposed during this period of power. We're lighting up those unsubs.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0178par1009	You're bringing him to one party.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0176par1010	We're lighting up those unsubs. And now that the judgment is gone, of course, you cry out, but now the judgment is independent, and our people are free, and free, and freer than ever before.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0179par1012	You've seized the judgment.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0176par1013	No more militant judgments. Now, there's a full independent, full free trial. Now, there's a country where free people live. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Now, you have to accept that, dear friends. Just the other day...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0180par1015	There's a judgment that's forgotten the defendant.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0176par1016	We're cutting national security classes. Look, guys, you have no idea how many freedoms you guys can't talk about, you can't imagine, have brought the AK PARTY. I'm afraid you don't have a tongue to speak here, even if you're aware of it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0180par1017	Freedom of speech...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0176par1018	Dear friends, whether you speak or you don't hear it, with the AK PARTY, Turkey is moving far and wide in all areas; freedoms are leaping in all areas, especially in all areas, especially in the economy, where your dreams, your horizons, can't reach, and we're going to keep going.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0181par1020	Thank you, sir. Now, dear friends, I'm going to give our MPs a minute of their place. Have a seat.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0182par1023	Not in your place.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0183par1024	The bullying was made from the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0184par1025	Mr. President, no teasing, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0185par1026	First of all, ma'am... please, please, please...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0183par1027	Please, look... the bullying about the coefficient was made from the stand. That's why I want to talk about the bench.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0185par1028	Friends, please understand. So the group vice presidents talked there for two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0183par1029	But look...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0185par1030	I'm gonna do the same thing to everyone.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0186par1031	He told me from the stand. He said, "Fail!"
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0183par1032	But look, that's where they picked on me. Please, sir...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0185par1033	No, no, sir, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0183par1034	But there's been a two-time pick-up, please. I have a right to speak from there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0185par1035	No, no, sir. Look...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0183par1036	I mean, but you promise, you promise the AKP Group. I've been teased twice, you don't promise me that. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0187par1037	There was no bullying from the bench, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0188par1038	Mr. President, Mr. Yilmaz does not want to speak according to Article 60, sir. According to Article 60, a brief request for a word is promised, as you know. He wants to speak because of the bullying, according to Article 69.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0187par1039	There's no bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0188par1040	The preacher teased him. Naturally, he has the right to speak from the stand, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0189par1041	Now, wait a second... Mr. President, the name was not reported and there was no bullying of the lady, it happened to the party.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0190par1043	He's suing... He said, "Fail. " He said, "Fail.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0189par1044	One second, sir, listen. Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0191par1045	Sir, I'm the MP who filed the coefficient case. That's why I'm going straight to...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0189par1046	I'm talking to Mr. Group President, ma'am, just a second. Don't worry, don't shout. Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0192par1048	In terms of opening the case, it means "fail," sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0193par1049	The perpetrator who filed the case. (AS/TK)
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0189par1050	Does he mean you?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0193par1051	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0189par1052	Here you go, sir. Two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0193par1054	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, dear friends, I do not accept that I am a perpetrator in any way. In this country, suing, seeking rights, if it's a crime, if it's guilt, only people like you, people of your understanding, can do it. On November 30, 2011, the coefficient was evened out. You're actually defending an inequality under the name. You say that everyone is evened by 0.12 under the name "Earth." But you're missing this: You all know that they get an additional six points per thousand when people in vocational high schools choose areas related to their departments. You all know that vocational high school students have the right to transfer to unsubstantiated universities of applied sciences. You all know that in vocational high school, he entered universities of applied sciences with the right of vertical passage. However, children who study in high school, children who study in Anadolu high school and children who study in science schools are not given a sixth per thousand when they choose a field related to their department. Is this what you call equality?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0194par1056	Is the CHP behind you or your party behind you?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0193par1057	Is this what you call equality? (CHP) So don't children in this country have any rights in general high schools, Anadolu high schools, science high schools? When they choose their own departments, they have no right to receive additional points, but do people in vocational schools, children, have rights?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0195par1058	They all have equal rights, equal rights.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0193par1059	He can't have such a sense of equality. If I'm not going to object to this as a Republican People's Party MP and as a mother and as a lawyer, I'm not going to be the voice of this silent majority, then I don't have a place here, my friends.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0196par1061	Are his lessons equal in science, mathematics? Do you know that? Look at their lessons, their lessons.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0193par1062	You're trying to cover it up. You're trying to eliminate it by dealing in religion. You can't eliminate that fact. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a fact. I'm inviting all lawmakers to step in from the council seat.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0197par1065	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0193par1066	Really, you're doing demagogues, you're lying.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0197par1068	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you, your time is up, thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0198par1069	Mr. President, I've been granted an answer, according to 69.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0199par1070	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0197par1071	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0200par1072	Mr. President, they've made a statement, and I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0197par1073	Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0201par1074	Mr. President, you can appreciate that the coefficient issue is not an ideological debate, and it shouldn't be.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0202par1075	You did it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0201par1076	As a member of the National Education Commission for eight years, I'd like to inform the General Assembly in three minutes without drawing this into an ideological dimension, and it's yours.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0203par1077	We do, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0204par1078	Mr. Slim, I promise you, on behalf of the group, to testify against our friends, but after that, let's move on to the normal thing.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0205par1079	The members of the group have already expressed themselves.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0203par1080	Sir, it's not about the coefficient in vocational high schools.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0204par1081	Please... please... please, Ahmet, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0203par1082	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0204par1083	We'll give you our word if you want it, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0206par1085	Why does it bother you to hear the truth? Sit down, listen, sit down!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0207par1086	You behave yourself!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0208par1089	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear friends, the 28th Februaryers brought this coefficient. It wasn't the right app. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, just listen, just listen. Wait a minute, guys, wait a minute. I've been a teacher in this country for 16 years. In this country, children and children with imams and students from science are all children of this country; neither one is leper nor one is plague, nor one is Oxford. Fair is fair. The coefficient the 28th Februaryers brought in wasn't right. Look, it's not fair that the boy who's studying in the electrical department can't be an electrical engineer, it's not true, no one can tell me that. A child studying in the computer department loses points when he prefers computer engineering, which is not true, but what was brought in today is not true, which is not fair. I can't...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0209par1094	Why?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0208par1095	Wait a minute, guys. The first time you clap your hands, and the second time, why are you so quick to start the opposition? I'm gonna need a minute of your time. Look, my dear friends, I think it's the biggest injustice in this country to make a matter of our young people's interest a matter of partying and defending and arguing between teams, that's the biggest mistake of all.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0210par1098	You're doing it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0208par1099	This is not an ideological debate. But it's everybody's right to file a lawsuit. There's no perp coming out of here, that's not true. The issue of coefficients brought by February 28 is not true, nor is today's practice accurate. Look, my dear friends, I'm not making this an ideological debate, I'm saying it as a technical argument. This should be discussed: A child in vocational high school should be given the right to engineering, but it is not justice to say that anyone can enter anywhere. Here, look, neither of these are true. Look, I'm talking to you, and I'm talking to you, and I'm talking to you very strongly in this House -- I know this job best for 550 people, and I'm very assertive.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0211par1102	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0208par1103	Look, I know that better than you do.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0211par1104	You never know.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0208par1105	First of all, all you do is yell from there.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0211par1106	What's yours?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0208par1107	Look, let's discuss this with you on a TV station, anywhere.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0211par1108	I'm in, I'm in.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0208par1109	Let's discuss it, but let's not discuss it ideologically; let's not discuss it ideologically, let's discuss it right, let's discuss it fair.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0212par1110	It's not about advertising, it's about advertising.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0208par1111	The 28th Februaryers were wrong, and you were wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0213par1113	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0214par1114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0215par1115	Mr. President, did you just tell me...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0213par1116	Congressmans, just a second... how long is this conversation, this discussion, this discussion, going to last? We're in the middle of...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0215par1117	I'm being bullied, sir, and he called me immeasurable, and I want my answer.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0213par1118	Look, did anyone say anything to you?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0215par1119	Yes, he did.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0213par1120	What did he say?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0215par1121	He said, "Unsolidity." He said, "It's a fake sign."
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0213par1122	Okay, I'll give it to you in a minute. Then I'll give it to you, Mr. Ahmet. Here you are, in a minute, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0216par1128	Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to point out that I don't think it's appropriate for a member of the Parliament to say, "It's impossible."
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0217par1129	The motion is insincere.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0216par1130	Wait a minute... To open a banner for free education, to wear an umbrella, to wear an umbrella, to carry an egg, to sell concert tickets, to criticize university administration, to participate in the 8th of March World Labor Women's Day, to attend May 1st, to remember Deniz Gezmiş, to protest the YOK, to read the book, to read the Kurdish song and the horse, to apologize to you if a student named Ridvan Steel is not being used as evidence, but as proof. If that's true, I'm calling you here to apologize. My respects.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0218par1134	Mr. Agha, thank you. Here you are, Mr. Ahmet. Two minutes... please, let's stop arguing here and talk accordingly.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0219par1138	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wasn't an imam-halip high school graduate, I was a high-school healthcare student, and when I graduated from medical school in 1990, I graduated from Istanbul Law School because there was no injustice to this coefficient, and I became a lawyer. If he had a coefficient injustice that day, I wouldn't have been able to get into law school, even though I answered all the questions. It's a very painful thing, and there's nothing to defend it from, folks. A mindset that wastes 92 percent, 100 percent, just to intercept an 8 per cent imam-reader, which side is accepted? You're not even enlightened among yourselves. One of you is defending his coefficient injustice. One of you is coming, and he's coming, and that's unfair, and one of you is saying, "That's not fair."
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0220par1141	We're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0219par1142	It is a situation where two friends are suing, he says, "We are not behind him as a group." Guys, where are you on this? Are you on the side of the people or are you on the side of something else? (CHP rows) Please keep your attitude clear, be clear, be clear, be clear. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've just been thinking about two friends, and we've been seeing each other. Miss Sena is coming, trying to express how fair injustice is. Mr. Tütin means something else: The February 28th is not fair, and yours is not. Look, guys...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0221par1147	I'll tell you something. Ask your friends. Those who read about the children in imams, raise your finger. Raise your fingers, how many of them have children who read in imams?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0219par1149	Dear friends, this is unfair. Mr. Slim, this is an unfair situation and...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0222par1151	Guys, please, please...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0219par1152	Let me put it this way: we're going to do whatever it takes to bring this justice to the balance of the coefficient, and we're going to bring this legal arrangement if necessary, and I'd like to thank you very much, if you'd be willing to support it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0222par1155	Thank you. Members of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Property Birtane on the group's proposal. Here you go, sir. [[A round of applause from BDP rows, exchanges between CHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0223par1163	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0222par1164	Please listen to the preacher, friends. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0223par1166	...in favor of the research motion that the CHP has made regarding the arrested students. I salute you all. Recently, pressure and digesting methods, especially in universities, have reached a significant extent that will end students' student life. Students, even in their slightest reaction, are beaten by security forces, sued for their rights, and sentenced to high punishments. The student's demand for free education, reduced transportation fees, solution to housing problems, and scientific education is described as terrorist activities. The students' voices are being cut off, even a slogan is considered a crime, and universities are trying to become the government's official educational institutions. Moreover, the RDC, one of the most antidemocratic institutions of impacting logic, is still held as a pressure mechanism at universities. It is said that the trial process for those who carried out the 1980 coup has been initiated, while on the other hand, this institution, which is the product of the coupgers, is not being touched. It is not acceptable for students to be sentenced on probation under Article 7/2 of the Anti-Terror Law (TCK 220) and Article 3713 (TCK 220) and Article 3713). Mr. President, high-value lawmakers create students with the most effective dynamic power for a country to meet democratic norms and to find life for a regime that is truly compatible with universal values. The role given to the student in Turkey is to learn the official ideology without question, to be subject to it, and to establish a way of life that suits that understanding, to be an individual who serves to live up to the status quo state. Universitys are not just places where students are educated, but where students freely express their thoughts and are alternative to the wrong system of development. Therefore, students should not be punished in any way for their political activities, nor should they be physically untouchable. In particular, the government's recent practices towards students are caused by the idea that students do not adopt their policies against power, and their actions to object to the current system. During the visit of İstanbul University of İstanbul by Mr. Abdullah Gül, a student of the Law School with three eggs in his bag, Yiğit Ergün was charged with four months in prison on charges of resisting and defaming the police. Again, 2 students named Ferhat Tüzer and Berna Yilmaz want free education. Since they opened the banner, they were tried under the organisation's membership and kept in prison for 19 months. According to the report of the Association of Modern Lawmakers, there are nearly 500 students in Turkish prisons today. In view of the absence of many arrested students, it would be appropriate to say that the number exceeds 500, considering that his record has been deleted according to the Higher Education Board Disciplinary Regulation. Dear lawmakers, students are treated as criminals for their criticism, slogans, and so on. They're being copped into custody, executed in the middle of the street. Today, however, one of Turkey's most important needs is the opening of a political field for students. Politicians should create the opportunity to listen to students rather than force them to listen to them, creating a free discussion by finding their opinions and political activities valuable. To punish them for their political activities means to push young potential out of politics, to isolate universities from politics, politics, young minds. Another remarkable point is that detention operations against students are especially due to test times. Students are not only detained because of their actions, their slogans, their banners, their sympathy for political parties, their reading books, phone calls, their political views, they are taken from their homes by operations and put into prison. The government forbids students to think, read, talk, research, criticize, protest, protest, all actions committed in criminal court, and continues to judge. Hrant Dink's murder says there's no organization. There's not a single investigation into the people who murdered 34 people in Roboski village. The speed train disaster case is falling from the statute of limitations. Three or four women get murdered every day. Those who challenge students are not punished. The students who lay eggs and make banners are accused of being members of the organization. Yes, the existing applications facing students are to play with the future of society and this country. It is a clear violation of student rights for students to be pressured and put in prisons. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as a whole, operations against our party, against democratic and monotheistic mentality, and against students, are not based on evidence. Since the policies of power are not in place, the arrests continue quickly. Youths with the country's future are being removed from politics and from being sensitive to the country's problems. Right now, the government is working on a type of person who's passed over all their responsibilities, who thinks like each other, who doesn't criticize, who doesn't question, who doesn't object to injustice. What kind of logic is that? Can you imagine if every student, every person, shared the same thought? How can people who read the same books, who speak in the same words, who dress in the same clothes be created? So no one in this country is going to read Marks, Hegel, Tolstoy, or be affected by any of this? Doesn't anyone have the right to be atheists, socialists, communists, liberals, homosexuals, radical Democrats? Do you expect students to start cutting in front of this? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this process is a serious process. If the student who chants is being held in prison for two years, then we have to see how narrow our freedom zone has been. There are no people in this country that aren't under pressure right now. Aren't students, journalists, writers, intellectuals, politicians considered the highest crime rate in this country and under constant pressure? Is the fact that you call it a democracy, that you're going to start a war against difference, that you're going to create one kind of person? The AKP's operations are aimed at destroying its potential against its own ideology. Students are also at an important point in that potential. Therefore, the AKP has launched a relentless intimidation policy against students. Currently, all upper secondary schools are trying to be transformed into vocational upper secondary schools, and other educational support homes outside of them are being interfered with. For a month now, the BDP Kars Kars Karsman Municipality Training Support House, where 400 students have been trained, has been shut down, and despite all our efforts, it has not yet been opened. These operations, carried out all over the students, are an attempt to keep them from the realities of life. Therefore, I find it important that this motion for research be brought up, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0224par1181	Thank you, Mr. Birtane. Now, against the motion, Mr. Salih Husband, the Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Husband. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0225par1186	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate. In Article 42 of our Constitution, no one can be deprived of the right to education or to study. I would like to state here that we have adopted the right to education, which is guaranteed not only by the law, but also by our conscience. It is evident from his thinking, his clothing, his belief that any activity related to the obstruction of his right to education is at the expense of this society, that the EC PARTY has shown a sensitivity to freedom. No one's freedom can be defended to harm another. Freedom is for expression, for opinion, for faith. You can't ask for freedom to throw the Molotov cocktails, raid the shop shop, take down the bank branch's window, frame, burn down a citizen's vehicle, lock down social life. If anyone perceives the right to education as damaging, let them know that the AK PARTY will not break the peace in this country. Look at what the AK PARTY has done to build the free, the conscience of the free generation: Our executive ministry, which has the largest budget in the 2012 budget, was the Ministry of National Education. In 2002, the National Ministry of Education budget was $11 billion, while the EC PARTY increased it to 56 billion euros in 2011. The total number of universities with newly established universities rose to 103. The university was founded in the entire province of 80. Thus my higher learning was brought to the foot of our people. Our new universities have become one of the best expressions of our understanding. Once again, scholarships and loan payments to our AK PARTI graduate students have been withdrawn from three months to monthly payments, and scholarships and loans have been increased to 260 euros. Thus, the increase has been 478 per cent since 2002. Last Monday, our prime minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was able to understand the vision of education of the Conqueror Project EC PARTY. The Conqueror Project in 17 provinces offers high-speed internet opportunities in classrooms, not in schools. During the AK PARTY, our students met with computer and Internet service. In addition, the tablet assigned to each of our students is closed with the smart board in our classrooms. That's how the AK PARTY made the black pen and the blackboard go down in history. In our sense of education, there is no dark period, there is a bright tomorrow, there is a strong generation. Our students' housing and housing problems have been improved to the highest levels of physical and social conditions during the AK PARTY ruling period. The dorms were built during this period, including single rooms or rooms for three. In all 81 provinces, the EC PARTI, who has studied pre-school education, has shown that it has a vision that will allow our students to compete with the world by starting foreign language education with pre-school education. When we consider all of this, it is clear that the understanding of the EC PARTY will not consent to the obstruction of the right to education of any member of Turkey. As the Constitution already states in Article 138, legal regulations have been made concerning the proceedings of Penal Code No. 5271, the arrest warrant, the request for the release of the suspect or the defendant. Under these regulations, all authority and responsibility for the investigation or the case to be carried out due to the crimes committed may not be subject to judicial authorities and the intervention of any institution, body, authority or person. Our Ministry has answered detailed questions about the number of arrested students, written and verbally asked by our MPs. Again, it is said that the practice of actions carried out due to the use of the constitutional right and the right to march is the majority of the cases. All arrested students have been known to commit crimes such as terrorism, sex crimes, murder, drugs, extortion, theft, injury, fraud, fraud. WHEN we looked at the EK PARTY ruling period in particular, the understanding of the EC PARTY had never been convinced at any time. It's impossible to see the pressure of the convincing rooms on the AK PARTY line. Those who ignore the tears of our students who were expelled from school because they were headscarved, who took the laws of 411 elected MPs to the Constitutional Court with their votes and cancelled them, who took the coefficient to the Constitutional Court with the same understanding, against its injustice. With these thoughts, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0226par1202	Thank you, Mr. Husband. Talks on the Republican People's Party group proposal have been completed. By the way, we have friends in the system. Mr. Öpül is number 1.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0227par1206	Do you have to yell to get a word in?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0226par1207	No, sir, you have to get into the system, not yell. I'll promise our friends in the system in order. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0228par1212	Mr. President, a little delay in the release of the Unions Act, a little longer in the commissions, a little more than 5 million people, including officers and pensioners, and their families. They didn't get a raise in that sense from New Year's. There are many families who are victims. Is it possible that our government would like to give them an advance help until this thing comes out? These families, close to 5 million people, have a demand. We want them to consider it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0226par1214	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Earth...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0229par1217	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to point out that I regret the words of our friend Bkent Arinc, who spoke in response to the motion given by our friend regarding the college students and Deputy Leader Ahmet Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0230par1219	It wasn't Bulent Arinc, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0229par1220	I got into college in 1976. Of course, we've experienced the 1980 coup and the SEC, and we've lived in time how both the coup and the SEC destroyed the autonomous and free university, with their students, with their professors. Now, using the same language, like in 1980, it does not really suit the AKP's rhetoric to accuse young people who object to the system of membership in a terrorist organization, to express what they want, as they say, because here Ahmet Aydın...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0231par1223	Thank you, Mr. Earth. Mr. Zeybekci...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0232par1226	Mr. President, our friends from the CHP Group have just asked how many MPs' children are going to imams? I'm an imam-hakip graduate. Two of my kids finished high school, couldn't get to the imam-hat, couldn't get to that coefficient because of the melanade. Hopefully, there'll be two more to send to the imam-wit. In 2001, this Parliament had a multiparty coalition structure. In that coalition structure, the parties shared the bench just as they shared the ministries and the OSCE. It's still the same warped structure. So you're saying that 1 = 5 is not equal to 1. On behalf of the people who elected me, on behalf of the people who voted for us, we want our rights here against parties that couldn't find a speaker, with this amendment to the Civil Code. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0233par1229	Thank you, Mr. Zeybekci. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0234par1232	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, as a mate to what we just talked about, 600 students are currently in prisons for different reasons, because they have academic, democratic and political rights. However, the Lighthouse defendants who have been tried for the corruption of the century are outside; the generals of September 12 are on trial. There is a public trial, the Universe and Şahinkaya are outside. So, why isn't there a lawsuit against executives and torture officers who actually torture and commit all kinds of illegal acts on September 12th? Why aren't they being punished yet? We'll answer for September 12th fascism, September 12th coup. That's what I'm saying to expose your lie. So, the September 12 approach, September 12th fascism, is still going on, and 600 students are currently in prisons. I'd like to know what your approach is. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0235par1235	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0236par1238	Mr. President, Muharrem Ence of CHP has just said: "Whose children are going to imam-haki?" I'm an imam-halip graduate, I've finished electronic communications engineering at İstanbul Technical University. There was no coefficient problem in my era, but one of my girls finished the imam-hatter, and even though she scored very well, she didn't get to go to college because of this coefficient. I mean, what do they still want with more imams? The faithful are the children of this nation. People in love, tolerance, peace, nonviolent, working for this country. So that's what they're really going to see if they're in public. In the election, the public has already given this support, showing who's right and who's wrong. So this coefficient problem is an injustice, an inequality. So at the point of this solution, the EC PARTY has done its job. Let them stop taking it to court, sue it, make peace with the nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0235par1240	Thank you. Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0237par1243	Thank you. One of my daughters is an imam-gay graduate. I know what kind of trouble you're going through at college because it's a headscarf. But we're not rematching. I know how you cry all the time as a father. Millions, thousands of our daughters, our children, have been deprived of their right to education in this way. Of course, today, if there are those who have been arrested only because of their opposition to the system, we, the AK PARTY, strongly oppose it. Now, we're against the unfair system itself. We are among those who believe that the CEC is still a custody body. In the new era, we also believe that the ECHR must be changed.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0238par1247	Pick him up, pick him up.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0237par1248	We're opposed to its function as a custody body on universities, but while millions of our daughters, our children, are deprived of the right to education, I don't honestly agree with those who are causing it today to say other things.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0239par1249	Thank you, Mr. Metiner. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0240par1252	Mr. President, we're talking constitutional changes regarding September 12th. However, what we call democracy in the future, we see that discipline regulations, which are still the remains of September 12th, are being implemented in our universities. Today, in the example of advanced democracy, what we call a free university, a free individual, a free youth, a free science nest, people need to change the rule within a single man's style of governance as soon as possible in the face of a month or any action. Because the world where there is no law, where people are expelled by regulations, expelled from school, and expelled from school, is an invisible form of regulation that is not seen in the world in the developed countries. At once, I believe that the disciplinary regulations at universities, which are the ruins of September 12th, must be changed, and that it is no longer appropriate for Turkey in particular, and that this regulation must be changed in order for the youth of the university to become more modern, more civilized and more scientist's nest.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0239par1253	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0241par1256	Thank you, Mr. President. I felt the need to renegotiate because in the coefficient case, our friends refuse to understand what we're saying in particular. In the case of coefficients on my side, I talked about the inequality created in reality between vocational high schools and general high schools, Anadolu high schools and science high schools, an inequality created in favor of vocational high schools. Why aren't our children in general high schools given six points per thousand when vocational high schools choose their own fields? We said we took a stand against it. But our friends, for some reason, are trying to make it a religious exploitation and match it to the imam-religious. They reveal the true intent of their minds. But my case was also brought up because of the inequality created between vocational high schools and other high schools. I'd like to bring this back to the attention of the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0242par1260	Thank you. Mr. Onur...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0243par1262	Mr. President, how long are we going to keep this up? We'll take a vote, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0242par1263	Mr. President, it's okay.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0244par1265	Dear Regents, these imprisoned students should not be told to leave at once. A deputy friend of ours has just been arrested because of their opposition, of course. And we're talking about 600 students here. Most of the time, there's like 150-180 coming from the government. Because kids get expelled after they're arrested. They also don't consider students who don't win college and go to classes. He'll have to hire a ringcar to take the test, and that'll cost him a thousand lira. These kids have to pay a thousand lira each time to take the test. That's why you're doing some old-fashioned exposés. Well, if that's the case, I'd like you to take care of the problems of these under arrest students.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0245par1268	Thank you. Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0246par1271	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think it's appropriate for a teacher to argue with your team, your boys... I didn't say a word to hurt our imam-member children, I didn't say that. I said, in the sense of a teacher, that the coefficient was wrong in the past, and now it's wrong. But two of our friends, two of the MPs, they took a promise that their kids read it in the imam. If 324 people don't take the stand, then their children don't read. But I wonder, why do they send their own children to colleges when they're sending poor people's children to imams? I'm curious about that.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0247par1274	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0246par1275	How many AKP MPs' children study in imam-haki? If they're all reading it, I want you to promise them all. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0248par1278	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0249par1279	Mr. President, it's time for demagogy!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0250par1280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0248par1281	Congressmans, Mr. Sentop, Mr. Vural and Mr. New, have requested a word. Mr. Vural, it's your turn after Mr. Şentop. Mr. Sentop, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0251par1284	Mr. President, my dear friends, either because there is not enough information on this coefficient issue, or there is a deliberate distortion. See, the coefficient issue is about this: High school students who take the test that the CSI took are doing the questions. The problem with coefficients is that the points given to the right questions of vocational high school students are different from the points given by non-professional students. It is a positive discrimination for vocational upper secondary school students to be given additional points of entry to vocational institutes or universities of applied sciences in their area of positive discrimination. To understand that, you have to make a comparison between winning a college and winning a university of applied sciences. He was born here due to positive discrimination. I'd like to ask my friends how they relate to equality and justice to different points for students who do the same question correctly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0252par1288	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0253par1290	Mr. President, as the National Movement Party, we have stated that this misdemeanor due to coefficient should be eliminated, and we have offered the law to eliminate the legal estate that gave birth to coefficients. In fact, it is due to a law-related decree that led to a decision made by the SEC to be taken to administrative jurisdiction. So instead of creating politics over the ruling of the Justice and Development Party, let's all, together, change the relevant clause of the law on the law that has brought injustice to this coefficient of our will, and even it out. Don't do politics on the PLO, and so don't do a seesaw politics on this matter with the Republican People's Party, and let's end this.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0254par1291	What are you telling us?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0255par1292	Tell CHP.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0253par1293	Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Please...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0255par1294	Tell CHP, CHP.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0253par1295	Here's... here's... here's our bill, bring it in and we'll change it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0255par1296	Tell it to CHP.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0256par1297	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0253par1298	No, we did, we didn't... we don't need a boatman fight.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0256par1299	Friends, now for the final speaker, Mr. New. We usually promise 10 people in feral conversations, and then we move on. Therefore, the last speaker is Mr. New. Here you go, Mr. New.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0257par1302	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, my wife's headdress victim, was victimized in pre-1980 college, she was terminated as a teacher for 19 years; my children became victims of convincing rooms and coefficients; now I'm a grandfather, and I'm not going to victimize my grandson. I offer you love and respect.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0256par1305	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group proposal has been completed.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0258par1309	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0256par1310	You want roll call, yes, sir. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Kart, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Çam, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ayadın, Mr. Akar, Mr. Trust, Mr. Special, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Kurllü, Mr. Farydan. Dear friends, we're going to roll call now. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit to your votes the Republican People's Party Group's proposal that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 08,02,2012 meeting on Wednesday (now), I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval, under Article 19 of the Institution. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" bill 128 rows of legislation has been taken into the 6th order of this chapter and the order of other tasks has been determined according to this. Apart from week-to-week working days, February 10, 2012, the meeting Friday (February 10th), at 2:00 p.m., and the discussion of other jobs involved in this merger in "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; Until the completion of talks on February 8, 2012, Wednesday (now) on Turkey's 156th Amendment to the Grand National Assembly's Institution, In the event that the 156 Orders of Adjudication Proposals were not completed in today's merger, until the meeting of the 156 Orders of Adjudication Proposals on Thursday (February 9, 2012), and the meeting of the 67, 100 and 119 Bills and Other Affairs from the Commission; On Friday, February 10, 2012, until the completion of the talks on Bill 128, Until the completion of the daily schedules in the following combinations at 2 p.m. if the daily programs are not completed; Keeping up the good work, It's the 91th Amendment of Bill 128. In accordance with the article, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following form of the ruler; It's recommended. Compiling Multiply of Ideas and Arts [[1/485]] Number of Articles in Sections Articles 1. Articles 1 through 8 - 8 2. Chapters 9 through 15 Articles 16
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0259par1349	Mr. President, sir, it is not possible for you to proceed with this proposal because we have held a council meeting today in the presidency of Mr. Cemil Cicek, and Mr. Nurettin Canikli has attended. Mr. Nurettin, we, all political parties, have spoken of your proposals on the Canicli Advisory Board. Mr. Nurettin Canikli -- you can bring in the minutes at the Council meeting -- they said they brought in this proposal: "We are bringing you in to complete the work on the Internal Charter. " Therefore, a proposal that cannot be made into the General Assembly in writing that is not attached to the Council of Counsellors. In that case, which proposal should we discuss? Therefore, since the AKP Group does not have an unsolicited proposal on the Counselling Council in accordance with its procedure, the AKP Group does not have an unsolicited proposal, I say it cannot be brought here today -- in the Council of Counsellors -- because it is not being carried out in accordance with its policy. Therefore, if you submit the Council of Counsellors' report, you will determine which proposal the AKP Group has brought to the Council of Counsellors. There is a huge difference between that suggestion and that suggestion. Therefore, it is not possible for us to discuss this proposal, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0256par1350	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0260par1351	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0256par1352	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0260par1353	Mr. President, at times when you were president, when the Council of Counsellors was called to a meeting, it was not considered in the framework of the principle that the political party groups did not join the Council of Ministers. We established the tradition. Look, according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, if the Council of Counsellors can't make a decision when the political party groups come together and offer their recommendations on the call of the Speaker of Parliament, they can make this request in the General Assembly according to the last statement of Article 19 of the Civil Code. Now, Mr. Oktay here at the Vural Advisory Board is expressing what we want one by one, but they haven't filed their own research proposals one by one. As a matter of fact, we're there to discuss what we want on the Council of Counsellors, and what we're going to discuss with the Speaker of Parliament, and how the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will work from now on, when it will work. As a matter of fact, with this application, Mr. President, it seems that since the Council of Counsellors has failed to reach an agreement on the proposals, I will proceed according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. That's the way all applications have been done so far. The group proposal from the EC PARTY can be discussed here. My respects.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0261par1357	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0262par1358	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş is not telling the truth again. Look, there's a suggestion from the AKP Group at the Council of Counsellors? No, there's not. It's said, there's not, there's not, there's not, there's not...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0263par1359	There are reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0264par1360	Mr. President, what's important there is the written text.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0262par1361	Such an offer has not been made to the Council of Counsellors. It is not acceptable to bring a proposal here as a pirate motion that is not expressed in the advisory council. There's no legal benefit. Uninterviewable, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0265par1362	Thank you. Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0266par1364	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0265par1365	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0267par1366	The 19th article of the Civil Code is clear, sir. Political party groups bring their own proposals to the Council of Counsellors, the Council of Counsellors discuss proposals, may or may not get a unanimous decision as a result of the talks. As a result of talks made by the Council of Counsellors, political party groups bring their proposals to the Council of Counsellors as a group proposal and offer them to the General Assembly's appreciation. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group can't offer another proposal by making additional additions to this, after offering the Council of Counsellors a proposal to discuss the proposal for the amendment of the Civil Charter. Therefore, this proposal cannot be discussed because it is contrary to the 19th article. If the Justice and Development Party Group insists, let's actually read the advisory committee's transcripts and decide accordingly. That's not possible, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0265par1367	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0267par1368	So it's not the oral statement, it's the written statement that matters. It means we don't keep our word, you follow us, so we don't know what to do next.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0268par1369	Mr. President, yesterday we voted on the counseling board proposal together.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0269par1370	Today, today, Mr. Elitaş... yesterday is yesterday, today is today.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0267par1371	We're talking about today.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0268par1372	As a matter of fact, within the framework of the decision made by our friends, we fixed something that was signed by the Council of Counsellors here by initialing with Mr. Vural, a political party member of the group. We initialed the question that we would bring the 5th order there to the 2nd place. It's been on every consulting committee that's ever been...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0270par1373	Then fix it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0268par1374	Mr. President has already been on today's advisory committee. Let him tell us what happened, what happened. So right now, in order to prevent the Great National Assembly of Turkey from working, it is nothing but an effort to block it under Article 63 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0271par1375	What block? You're blocking it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0272par1376	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0273par1377	Let's hear it for you, and then I'll give it to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0272par1379	Today at the Council of Counsellors...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0274par1380	You'd have to tape our mouths if you could.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0273par1381	One moment, sir...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0272par1382	Today at the Council of Counsellors, the AKP Group has no suggestions. Mr. Canikli gave such a speech, used such a statement. Therefore, we demand that the reports be brought here and read. Then let's move on to the agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0273par1383	Thank you. Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0275par1385	How about a pirate motion?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0276par1386	Mr. President, it has been written in accordance with the 19th Amendment of our Parliamentary Charter, as chairman of the EC PARTI Group, and I have attended the meeting, representing the EC PARTI Group, which is headed by our Parliament Speaker, and I have stated that as of today's agenda, we have requested that the negotiations be discussed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly General Assembly General Assembly and that negotiations be held until the end, Mr. President. In fact, Mr. Vural said: "Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? Thus, both in writing and in the records of the healing statements, the provisions under Article 19 of the Civil Code have been fulfilled. There is no procedure, Mr. President, against any procedure, against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0275par1387	Mr. President, good, Mr. Nurettin Canikli has confirmed me, thank you. So it's against your will to bring up certain issues other than what you're about to bring in...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0277par1388	We're bringing him in.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0276par1389	Sir, we're bringing in the same.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0277par1390	Why are you misunderstanding?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0278par1391	...because you attended the meeting, Elitaş wrote the letter, so he wrote the wrong letter.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0276par1392	No, no, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0278par1393	It's not a letter for his address.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0276par1394	Mr. President, look, there's a meeting of the Civil Code today...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0278par1395	You can't, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0276par1396	Look, it's on the record, Mr. President. We have expressed our desire, Mr. President, to bring the meeting of the Civil Code to an end. That's what we're getting, and that's what we're asking. There is no contradiction, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0278par1397	Sir, bring in the reports, everything is clear there.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0279par1398	Mr. President, it has come out quite clearly, Mr. Canikli also states that we have made a recommendation to the Council of Counsellors to discuss the proposal for an internal amendment, and we have not made any other suggestion.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0280par1399	Mr. President, the matter that has come to the General Assembly is now in the game of the General Assembly, sir. Let's discuss...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0278par1400	Tell them to bring the proposal tomorrow, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0279par1401	So, what needs to be done...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0278par1402	Have them bring in the proposal tomorrow, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0281par1403	No, sir, look...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0278par1404	Mr. President, look, they'll bring the proposal tomorrow. There's already a Civil Charter in the 1st.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0282par1405	Mr. Vural, if I may. I'm not finished.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0278par1406	So, it goes according to order. They'll bring their proposals tomorrow, and they'll get it done.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0283par1407	No. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, sir. It's all right, Mr. President, there's no problem, there's no problem.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0284par1409	Mr. President, I haven't finished my sentence.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0285par1410	But don't let anyone run around with the law, turn the rule of law into the upper hand, whatever it is.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0283par1411	It's in writing, too.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0284par1412	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the other political party vice presidents to finish my sentence and then speak to them themselves, sir; I haven't finished my sentence. Mr. Canikli made it very clear that we've only made a recommendation to the Council of Counsellors to discuss the proposal for a change of the Civil Code, and we have no other proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0283par1414	I didn't just say, sir, I didn't just say, I didn't say,
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0284par1415	But there are many other regulations in this article, presented by Mr. Elitaş to the General Assembly. Therefore, this proposal, the group proposal, cannot be discussed.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0286par1416	Take a break, call it in.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0287par1417	Yes, sir!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0284par1418	No, we meant that too. If they say so, let's bring in the transcripts and talk about it. Otherwise, there's no way to see him.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0286par1419	There's nothing to discuss, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0288par1420	Mr. President, the proposals the political party groups have brought at the Council meeting will be submitted to the General Assembly's information that will be discussed here because there is no compromise. Under the information of the General Assembly, the opposition party will voice its views on the issue. As a matter of fact, according to Article 63, you will ask the opinion of the valued members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, asking their opinion.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0286par1421	That's not true, dear. No left and right.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0288par1422	Our friends in that frame will state that this is wrong, and if the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey make a convincing statement on this issue, our fellow MPs will refuse, and if they can't convince them, that's the case.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0289par1423	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0290par1424	Sir...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0289par1425	Mr. Elitaş, open up a legal debate. He says to you kindly.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0291par1426	We don't have that request.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0292par1427	Mr. President, this is already a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0293par1428	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is this the way to argue the law?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0294par1429	The ruling party is recommending for the first time to open a formal debate because their mistakes are clear.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0292par1430	Mr. President, this is already a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0294par1431	Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party's staff can't bring a group proposal here, and it's putting the solution in the presidency. That can't happen. Mr. President, there's no way to discuss this, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0295par1433	Mr. President, take a break.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0296par1434	There is no such procedure, Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0297par1435	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0296par1436	I mean, why are we talking here?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0298par1437	Guys...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0297par1438	Mr. President, it's not right to bring the apple to the Council of Counsellors and bring the apple to the General Assembly. Therefore, this is not possible to discuss.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit01spe0298par1439	Now, members of the group, if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna take a ten-minute break, so come on back and see me.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0298par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0299par0003	Sir, wait a minute... Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0298par0005	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0299par0006	Regarding the proposal, I believe the AKP Group revised its proposal in accordance with its proposal at the Council of Counsellors. So you need to read that revised proposal so that the negotiations can begin or Mr. Canikli...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0298par0007	Okay. Members of parliament, the EC PARTY Group has renewed its proposal. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 08,02,2012 meeting on Wednesday (now), I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval, under Article 19 of the Institution. AK PARTY Group Deputy President Until the completion of talks on February 8, 2012, Wednesday (now) on Turkey's 156th Amendment to the Grand National Assembly's Institution, In the event that the 156-Selected Adjudication Proposal was not completed in today's merger, until the meeting of Thursday's February 09, 2012, was completed with the 156-Definition Proposal. To complete daily schedules if daily programs are not completed until 2 p.m. in the following combinations; Keeping up the good work, It's recommended. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0300par0025	Mr. President, since the proposal was framed by the AKP Group's Advisory Board, I think it might be possible to negotiate.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0298par0026	Thank you. We now move on to the negotiations of the Justice and Development Party Group Proposal. We will make a promise to our friends in favor of him and against him. First word, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, in your favor. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0301par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I made a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY Group Proposal. We've just had an argument about the content of our group proposal, and in the back, we've come to a conclusion by consulting with our friends, the other group vice president. So here's the bottom line: the AK PARTY Group President sent our group recommendation or our recommendation to the Speakership in a way that will be recorded in writing as part of today's agenda. That's what we think is the main thing, so that's what we think, that's what's fundamental, that's what's on the record. With this week's work agenda, there is no problem with the content of which issues, laws and proposals should be discussed on the working agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and this has been reported. We also expressed it in a way that would not be contrary to this, in a way that would be completed at the advisory board, and there -- if you look at the courts -- we have expressed verbally our proposal that the Civil Charter will be discussed and their talks will be conducted until the end of time. But our friends, these two, motamots, have to be exactly the same. They've come up with their opinion that they should be equal. They've come up with their opinion, which is that even though we know and believe that our proposal to the presidency in writing is sufficient and valid, we've joined our friends' suggestions in this way, and this way -- this way -- this method has been fixed with a lot of formula. So, our group proposal, today and tomorrow, is that the talks of the Civil Code will continue tomorrow if they can't be finished today. If it can't be finished tomorrow, then it's normal, the talks will continue next week in this correctional framework, which means there will be no work on Friday. That's how we decided. The group expects our proposal to be accepted by the High Council, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0302par0040	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Against the group proposal, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0303par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge against the group proposal brought by the Justice and Development Party today. Of course, it's always turned into a sabbatical, so it's a rush, it's a rush, it's a rush, it's a rush. Nurettin Bey, I mean, it's not about racing minds with each other, it's about doing the right thing, doing it together. Together there is mercy, and we see together what happens in separation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know the reason for this discussion, as of this hour, our nation, our people, are watching us. Indeed, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has been established, appointed, to establish law to address the problems of the nation, and has been authorized by the political power, the ruling party group. We say every time, the power to determine the agenda of the House belongs to the power, but when the power is confused, when it changes its decision on what order to discuss what issues, what rankings, we, the opposition parties, bring the nation's agenda here, that's the bottom line. The power brings its own agenda, it has the authority to set this agenda, but look at the issues it brings, believe me, not the issues that will solve the problems of the society's struggling parts, but other issues. So international contracts have a social response? We respect the government's authority to set a agenda, but bringing people's agenda here is the right and authority of opposition parties, particularly the National Movement Party. This is determined in the 19th article of our Civil Charter: the Council of Counsellors. If the agenda of power is shared by the opposition, it comes as a Council of Counsellor's decision, which has been tried and done many times here; even by having the Council of Counsellors sign it hand-to-hand, this Parliament has presented such examples of reconciliation. But other than that, as opposition parties, there's no other way to bring the problems of our communities here, to set an agenda. That's the name of the advisory board group proposal. It is unacceptable to want to be taken away from opposition parties, friends, for our democracy, for our House, for the democratic system. You can't run democracy by turning down the voice of opposition parties and taking away the agenda of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law or fellow citizens who have been watching us should know that the members of the Justice and Development Party, the members of the group, the members of the group, have brought a law proposal here with the identity of the vice presidents, when it is not necessary. So they've come up with a law proposal that they've agreed to change the Civil Code, which they've been running for nine years. They're lowering the opposition's voice from 40 minutes to five minutes on the group proposal that I've just described, which ensures that people's agenda is brought here. And we say, "Your intention is to lower the voice of the opposition." In the 19th Amendment, opposition party groups or ruling party groups agree to bring the decision here as a group proposal if they fail to bring a decision, 40 minutes from ten minutes to ten minutes on the side. What's the matter? It's a matter of people talking for 40 minutes with their opposition and their power here, sharing it. The citizen must have at least been able to see his own problem being discussed from the House. The 19th amendment, which was introduced in the Civil Code to ensure this, came here as a five-minute deadline with the joint law proposal of the members of the Justice and Development Party. This is the desire to lower the voice of direct opposition. Dear friends, you can say other things, we've been listening to this for two days or a week, so here, you're talking more opposition, you're talking more, you're talking. We don't have any intention. The ruling party insists on putting claims in front of us, but it's a declaration of will, a declaration of will. So what is it? What law did you want to take out, what rankings did you want to set the agenda of the House so that opposition parties could prevent it? If in this declaration of will, you have a desire to run the House, but you're shortening the time of the opposition's speech, it's not true. We all want the House to work. Let the House work, let it work until morning, let it work every day, let it work every hour of the day, there are no restrictions here. Come in, it's 1 4 o'clock. We're going to start at 00, 13. It's 11 o'clock. Let's start at 00, instead of working until 7:00 p.m., 21. Let's work until 00, work until the end if there are many emergencies. So it's not the right of the Parliament to exercise the right to bring a group proposal in the 19th article of the Civil Code and opposition parties, or to take away the right to speak, that's not true, you have no right to deceive the nation by insisting on it. Dear lawmakers, you should know that the Turkish state of law, the law of Parliament, the Civil Code of Congress, but these rules do not run the House, do the Civil Charter you want, make any rule you want, develop any law you want, develop any law you want, if there is no trust-based agreement between us, you cannot run this House. You've tried it 40 times, you've tried it a thousand times. If your intention is to run the House and to address people's problems, then the path is to compromise with opposition party deputy leaders. We've come up with this compromise every time, there are many examples -- our friends have mentioned it before -- in one week, he's passed four laws of 2,800 articles. If the opposition objected, could you remove it? Dear lawmakers, compromise is a necessity. We are here on behalf of the nation, we are obliged to compromise with its opposition, to produce a common mind, but another obligation is the responsibility of political power to ensure reconciliation. The political power will take measures of reconciliation, but if there is a desire to break the compromise, if there is a intention, then, here's the job, to bring in a taste of such an internal code, a proposal, a law proposal, and impose it on this Parliament. Again, I ask your consciences, my citizens. For nine years, the AKP has ruled this Assembly alone as political power, with this Civil Code. In these three periods, there were nearly 3,000 possible laws, which came out with this Civil Code, and with this fragmented structure, he went out with these opposition parties. Now, in this Parliament, which you have used in nine years and ruled by these provisions, what has changed now that you are changing the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code? Look, dear lawmakers, I'm giving you information. As the National Movement Party, I present to you the contents of the week-long negotiations behind closed doors. We insist on a compromise. Here's the deal. Let's sit down. Let's do it together. There's a huge internal charter proposal prepared last semester with the participation of four parties. Let's take him again. Let us also make this agreement to change the constitution in the Civil Code. The Civil Code and the Constitution are parallel laws. There's no point in changing the Civil Code without the Constitution and changing it in pieces. So, unfortunately, this is the Civil Code proposal that broke the peace of working here, the ground of reconciliation, trying to eliminate it. We've been arguing for over a week, and it hasn't been a mile. Our proposal is: Let us sit down, and beyond that, let us present this proposal of the Civil Code, and bring together all the things that must be done to run this House more effectively. Otherwise, it would be a shame for the lawmakers, and it would be a shame for the nation's time, but the AKP Immunity is responsible for this, the AKP group's vice presidents... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the AKP Group. Just so you know. It's your responsibility.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0304par0059	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0305par0060	The Prime Minister's orders, they can't.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0304par0061	In favour of the proposal, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP, Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0305par0063	Elitaş, the Prime Minister's orders are not to be filmed.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We'll resume our negotiations with the Civil Code, which began last week, today, Wednesday. During that time, as I was trying to say yesterday, we held a meeting with the president's president in an environment of political party leaders, in terms of a slightly more intense discussion about the Civil Code, the appearance of unpleasant images. At Friday's 9:30 to 11:30, the meeting reached a specific point and continued for more than half an hour, again as chairman of our president. During this time, the lack of discussion on the issue of the Interior Charter, which we brought in on Monday or Tuesday, was the most controversial issues of the political group's representatives, meaning that the opposition parties, which we have brought in on Monday or Tuesday, have said what it means to reduce the promise of the opposition by the 19th Amendment, which has often come to the agenda of the Civil Charter, in accordance with the procedural debates on Article 63, and in order for it to work in a healthier way. Look, dear lawmakers, it's become a habit for opposition parties to be given group advice every day, especially in the 24th term Parliament, and in the 23rd term, when it became a tradition in its final days. Those group proposals -- as well as the group proposals we're talking about today -- are in the form of research proposals -- are to set the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on Tuesday and continue on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, if the decision has been made. One of the biggest criticisms, especially in the speech of opposition speakers, members of the group, on this platform, was that last term, this period, this period: the Justice and Development Party or the ruling party group did not agree on what we would do tomorrow. Although the group received advice on this issue on Tuesday, they are changing agendas again on Wednesday. There is a criticism in the form of "Object." In accordance with our opposition's objections, criticisms, our Parliamentary President has given us a proposal regarding the discussion of the group's proposals only Tuesday, by reviewing the minutes, by reviewing the internal charter talks, by reviewing the views of ruling and opposition party lawmakers during their talks. We're going to bring our group proposals to my 19th article, my dear friends, that the proposal to change the Civil Charter is to be passed by voting on it in Article 156, which is limited only to five minutes of the group offering the proposal. It was also an offer to submit the proposals to the opinion of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey without a vote, without a meeting. Now, in this arrangement that we've brought in, our Speaker's proposal, his recommendation, we, the AK PARTY Group, were, in fact, criticisms by political parties in that sense. And the Speaker of Parliament, who's had years of Parliament experience, who's done the Ministry, who knows the functioning of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, said, "If Mr. President has such an opinion, this is an experience of many years. That's what we said. We just said we'd talk about group proposals on Tuesday. As a matter of fact, both the members of the opposition party and the members of the members of the group are not particularly and persistently able to control the parliament. Let us set aside a day for the day of inspection. If you look at our proposal for a amendment to the Civil Code, you'll be able to control all of our Tuesdays... If you recall, we're only conducting the process of answering verbal questions on Tuesdays in group proposals and consultation board proposals, for an hour, but in the amendment to the Civil Code, two hours of answering verbal questions, even the parliamentary, vice president, our friends and I approached at a certain point in the principle, and we discussed the motions to investigate the Tuesdays, but whether they want the ruling party to accept them or not. But this may happen if we consider these warm offers in style, in quietness, in a quiet way, in the environment in which we can discuss them. In fact, an opposition party's proposal seemed more appropriate: ▪ Let's talk more about... • How can we talk more about more things? As you know, general provisions in the Civil Code are carried out regarding the beginning of discussion of research proposals. The general provisions give political party groups 20 minutes each, five minutes each on behalf of the motion holders. One of our opposition party's proposals was: Let's make a change in the Civil Charter, in order to express the opinion of our fellow citizens. 20 minutes each, in the name of the groups, to fill the subject, instead of going off topic, in our research motions, ten minutes on behalf of the groups, five minutes on behalf of the motionholders, we've heard this from our friends, as a principle, and we've seen that it's appropriate. But now to turn down the voice of the opposition. To put it frankly, it's a great injustice.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0307par0073	Five minutes!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0074	It's so unfair.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0307par0075	You're cutting 40 minutes down to five minutes, aren't you?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0076	How?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0307par0077	In your proposal, you reduce it to five minutes, when you have 40 minutes according to the Civil Code to discuss group proposals.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0078	Now, Mr. Speaker's proposal...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0307par0079	I understand, but your intentions are clear, your will.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0080	Mr. Şandir, look, now, what you're saying is that you're describing political party groups bringing in group proposals every day as the supervision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0307par0081	But it didn't always happen.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0082	Mr. President, you're right, I'm trying to express it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0307par0083	It wasn't always there, why now?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0084	If you'll excuse me, you're trying to consider the group proposal you bring every day as an audit activity. So we say: "Don't try to evaluate the group proposals you bring every day. Let's not change the group proposal we received on Tuesday Wednesday, Wednesday, Thursday, during the days of Turkey's Grand National Assembly making a sound law. What did we get on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or even next week -- if not needed -- is the same way that we stabilize the workings and foundations of the Turkish National Assembly, the issues on the agenda. Why? Our congressman friends are working, they're coming, and our friends from the opposition, Mr. President, look, I had a speech. Why did you change the agenda? They are rightly reproaching us. Here's what we say: let's do it on Tuesday. Let's bring the group proposals, you bring them, we'll bring them, but let's speed up the inspection activities at the same time on Tuesday. How do we speed up the pace? We're offering an hour an hour an hour a day a week at the advisory board, so we can take it up to two hours on Tuesdays now, which I'm guessing all political party groups see as appropriate. Likewise -- without name, I'm saying -- the part of a political party group that starts with 20 minutes and goes by 10 minutes in the general framework of the investigation motions, and we call it "in the name of the ten-minute groups," and the goal is well-intentioned. How well-meaning? Let's discuss not one research proposal that day, but two research proposals, three research proposals, if possible. In fact, when we look at research proposals, there are some really positive things. But since the time of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been limited or because the next agenda is different, or because of the limited resources of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as we've done a lot of research proposals here last semester, we've even set up commissions and even all political parties together, and we'll make a motion to investigate one of our political parties, the Republican People's Party, when we embrace it, to the other political parties, so that you may have a right to speak.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0307par0086	So compromise is possible. There's an example of compromise.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0087	Look, dear friends, yesterday at 15 o'clock. We started at 00.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0308par0088	Yeah, once in a while.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0089	Mr. Nevzat, not once in a while. There may have been a time in forty years when we called it "No. " Look, it was 15 yesterday. We started at 00. We've made a recommendation from the Board of Counsellors. Speaking of off-the-book talks, debates, etc., we moved to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at 16.30. We finished the five-point law and the three-point law, including the two-part law and the execution, at 10:30 p.m., with one interim, one additional clause. Now, what we're saying, Mr. Lawmakers, Mr. Group Vice President, is this, Mr. Mayor...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0309par0092	There's been a matter of law a day.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0306par0093	If you'll excuse me, I'm running out of time, so if you'll just tell the president to excuse me for one more minute, let's talk. Look, we say that yesterday we met for an hour, including the application and execution of every single item of the five-point law. Our fellow lawmakers, who spoke in this frame for ten minutes, also brought up what they felt was very important that day, whether it was relevant or not. Maybe he criticised the ruling party, maybe he criticised an MP, maybe he criticised the government, but in this criticism, we offer criticism when we're working, not with group proposals. I hope, I wish that political party groups... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When we look at it in this sense, I hope that they will support our offer, not to reduce control activities, but to make control more effective, to ensure the efficiency of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's work, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0310par0098	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Akif Hamzacebi of İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0311par0103	Mr. President, lawmakers, we've been discussing various proposals for the change in the Turkish Parliament's Civil Charter for the past nine days. If the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the nation's agenda are not the same, then there's a problem with politics there, and if the agenda of the nation's parliament and the agenda are different, then politics doesn't work well. When we look at Turkey's agenda, we see Turkey needs a democracy programme, and we see that democracy needs democratisation in Turkey. Yes, I know how difficult it will be to have a program like democratisation of democracy in a country with more and more authoritarian trends, a country where there is a power that demonstrates practices in this direction. I know how difficult it is to have a program, such as democratizing democracy in a country where students who have opened banners are tried as members of a terrorist organization, the action of throwing eggs is considered a terrorist act, such as eggs, umbrellas, banners, postcards, and postcards are considered a crime element. I know how difficult it is in a country where students are tried for membership in imaginary and imaginary terrorist organizations where organizations that were buried in the darkness of history 30, 40 years ago were resurrected by police proceedings and students were made a member of it. I know how the intellectuals, the scientists, the journalists, the politicians, the sultans, the sultans, the monarchs, tried to be massacred in the modern form of political slaughter, and I know how difficult it is to democratize democracy in a country like this, but it has to be the agenda of Turkey. Prosecutors were killed on Turkey's agenda. On the agenda of Turkey, we have daughters who were marketed by their father when they were twelve years old by their parents. This is an example, these are real, our society has deep wounds. We can't end up counting these problems. It's hard enough for me to even describe them in their headlines in a ten-minute period of time. Yes, Turkey needs democratisation. Turkey needs legislature reform as a subcommittee of the problem of democratisation, deepening democracy. Parliament, political parties, the Constitution, the elections, as of certain periods of politics, are not enough to democratize the system; these are the minimum elements of democracy, but their existence is not enough to define the regime as democracy, but other elements need to be added to it. Civil society needs to participate in the debate or talk about the basic issues of the country in civil society. Now with the amendment to the Civil Charter, it is intended to be less expressive of Turkey's opposition ideas; less expressive of its views on power, less talk. Now, the more pressure you put on civil society, the narrower you narrow its field, the more power you occupy that area as a state, the more democracy you avoid being a democracy. Liberal democracy was the next stage of republican democracy, the next stage of negotiation democracy. Today there is a democratic negotiator in radical democracies, which means that the basic decisions are discussed by everyone in the public sector, a discussion in parallel with these discussions is a democracy in the Turkish Grand National Assembly or in that national parliament. What is now done is for citizens to regroup in public space, where they gather to discuss the problems of the country. This Civil Code is a step towards the feudalisation of the public area, its occupation by the state, the control of the state, where the country's problems have been discussed in Turkey. The power speakers who come up here aren't telling the truth, it's not true. Now, only one article of the 18th Amendment proposal is symbolically reducing the government's speech time, and all other substances are intended to reduce opposition's talking time; this is the truth. It has been said that the ruling party's effort to compromise: "Ya, I think we've turned down too much opposition, let's loosen up the voice a little bit." The time of the opposition parties' talk for 20 minutes on a proposal that a political party group has now submitted to the General Assembly has reduced it to five minutes. Now they say: "We can increase these five minutes for a minute or two more, look, come, let's compromise." It's not a compromise, it's a dissolution of antidemocratic provisions, it's a waiver. Now, we're going to discuss such an amendment to the Civil Code if the negotiations can actually begin in a moment. I hope to see you soon. But we don't take this offer, we don't find it right. This proposal is intended to reduce the right of direct opposition. Now, this offer, when we look at it, is the proposal of a ruling political party, which formed such a power, which I've just tried to define, which is far beyond the understanding of negotiating democracy, based on the cunning of a song, based on authoritarian tendencies, is an anti-democracy proposal. We've given good examples of reconciliation in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now Mr. Elitaş says that we discussed five articles in five hours yesterday. Well, we passed 2,700 articles in four days in January of 2011 last year. No one's talking about it. The Turkish Trade Law, the Law of Debts, passed 2,700 articles in four days in five laws. The power doesn't work. He says, "Sir, the group's proposals prevent us from going on the agenda." I ask the Justice and Development Party: What do you have on the agenda that we can't move on to? So far, you have no suggestions for the Republican People's Party. You brought it here yesterday, and you said, "Let's take out Law 6111." We said, "Yes, let's get it out right away." Look, I'm making a suggestion: there are seventy-eight international contracts waiting. Bring it in and we'll have it out in a week. We've got opposition, we'll pick them out. We can take it off. Bring in any other law that's on the country's agenda, we may have some support, we may not. In what we give, we express our interests, we take what we don't give, we express our differences in a civilized way. We can compromise or not compromise, we can take it off. There's a lazyness, there's an impropriety. In the 22nd century, this Parliament passed 900-odd laws. We're in the 24th century, it's down to 500 and it's half. Now the power doesn't work, the power is lazy, there's no law to take out, and the opposition is too loud, so let's keep it down. That's his understanding. It's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, don't participate in this mistake. We're the ones who tried to compromise. We said, "Let's get this stuff out, we'll get the other stuff legalized." We said, "This proposal is not accepted." If you insist on this clause, let's take a reference, let's do a new study, let's do a new one, and let's do a few of the articles that were selected, redesigned, redesigned, and brought here. Well, if you're bringing this up, let's give up our insistence on article 19 and let's talk about it for ten minutes, just a political party, but let the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be proposed by Mr. Salih Kapusuz, as it is signed by Mr. Salih Kapusuz, in five or one-third of the time the opposition's proposals, so no. Your intention is that the opposition does not speak. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But the wind sows, the storm reaps. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0312par0117	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Congressmans, talks on the Justice and Development Party group proposal have been completed. Now, I'm going to put the group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0313par0122	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit02spe0312par0123	Request roll call. Let's get the names, please. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tün, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Kart, Mr. Ayadin, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Öner, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Akar, Mr. Earth, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Özgündün, Mr. Demirçallı, Mr. Bay Bayraktutan. Yes, sir. We'll do a roll call with the device. I'll give you two minutes, sir. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we have enough numbers for a meeting. I submit the EC PARTY group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the group proposal is accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0314par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[A group of CHP MPs were seen sitting on the bench]] According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0315par0010	No.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0316par0011	Mr. President, the Commission is here, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0314par0012	The commission is in place. The presidential representative is here.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0317par0014	Mr. President, now, sir, the last time I spoke to you during the last session about the Civil Code, I feel the obligation to express it once again. The proposal made by members of the Justice and Development Party's group for amendments to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is against the 181th Amendment of the Civil Code. Because the 181st Article of the Civil Charter of Turkey organises that amendment proposals can be made by lawmakers in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. However, when we look at the proposal, it has been seen that five ruling party members have made this offer with the identity of the group's deputy chairman, beyond the capacity of MP, so the proposal is not incompatible because it violates the 181st Article of the Civil Code. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Secondly...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0314par0017	Excuse me... Dear friends, let's have some peace, please. Here you go, sir. (x) 156 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 59 (P.S.), dated 1/2/2012.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0318par0021	...more important than this, Mr. Mehmet Satın, representing the Presidential Court, has made statements that have lost his neutrality during negotiations with the Constitutional Commission. I'd like to read a sentence here again from Mr. Safirm's statement to the Constitutional Commission report. Mr. Sütın also said that everything that was asked to be said in five minutes could be said, that if demagogued, the time would be unlimited, that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would work more efficiently if this proposal were to be concluded. Mr. Sütın has expressed that the speech of opposition representatives at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the commissions and the General Assembly over five minutes is demagogy. In this sentence -- leave the insult to Parliament -- a parallel position to the government's proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0319par0023	He's a prodigy.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0320par0024	That's right... that's right...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0318par0025	The final joke of Article 94 of the Constitution is very clear, except for the duties of Parliament Speakers, who can't make a statement or act out of their neutrality, except to intervene in the discussions or to make statements about those discussions when they are conducting the session on the stand. It seems you've decided to discuss the amendment proposal. Yes, it can be discussed, but it is not possible to have this conversation if Mr. Saflim is sitting here. Mr. Stable gets up, another Deputy Speaker comes in, these talks can continue.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0321par0028	Please, friends...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0318par0029	There's no way we can continue negotiations with a congressman who's lost his neutrality, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0321par0030	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. If you remember, in the merger and in the hearings that I've led, your witness has expressed these issues, in other words, our valued deputies. Mr. Sautin has also made a statement regarding the matter you have been in contact with in the past merger and sessions. We, now, have discussed with you all of the proposals we have come to terms with, all the talks have been completed. As Speaker, I'm faced with doing whatever jobs and procedures are in order in front of me. A decision has already been made regarding the meeting of the Civil Charter today. So there's an issue of the Civil Code at the 1st time of the agenda. Of course, if you have these and other reasons, you'll bring them up, we'll discuss them here, we'll talk about them, but the issue you're talking about has been brought up in the last session, and it's settled. Now that we're here, where do I start as the speaker of the House? Before the sentence is completed...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0318par0032	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0321par0033	If you'll excuse me, the negotiations have been completed, we've stayed in the question-answer section over the entire proposal, and we've closed the merger to meet on the question-answer side. So, now, there's no way we can go back to the beginning, we'll pick up where we left off, we'll move on to the QA part. As a matter of fact, on that day, some of our fellow lawmakers -- I'm about to issue their names -- were already in the system about the question-answer part. So there's a process that's moving, and this isn't the first time we've started. You've brought up your demands and objections. However, you will bring it up during further negotiations.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0322par0035	How about today's QA, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0323par0036	Mr. President, is it over, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0321par0037	Yeah. Please... to listen to Mr. Hamzacebi, the environment needs to be calm, quiet. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0323par0039	Mr. President, there was nothing agreed on during last week's session, and you know it. If it were a matter of agreement, there wouldn't have been so many meetings without you as your president today. The last time we had a meeting in your office today, there was no compromise. So there's a conflict. In addition, we did not consent as Republican People's Party to the residence of Mr. Sütmümlı at the meeting last Friday. I made it clear on that day that it was against the Civil Code, but you specifically requested that we discuss all of this, but not all of it, not all of it, not ask the questions, so let's postpone the problem, freeze it, and come up with a solution by Tuesday. By Tuesday, we got a frozen problem out of the fridge by Wednesday, and now we're talking about that problem. Therefore, there is nothing more natural than expressing in this session our view of the loss of neutrality of Mr. Secret. Just because he was sitting in the last session doesn't mean he'll sit in this session and after that. The Civil Code talks may continue, but it is not possible for Mr. Sümmetman, who has lost his neutrality, to sit in line of commissions representing the Council of Parliament's Presidential Court, otherwise it is contrary to Article 94 of the Constitution. We take this as an intervention in the House, an order, sir, as a Republican People's Party. Take a break, appoint another Deputy Speaker, appoint him, continue the negotiations. We continue to express our opposition, the ruling party defends its proposal, see you later. We act according to whatever the General Assembly decides, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0321par0041	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0324par0042	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0321par0043	Dear Elitaş... Please, come in, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0324par0045	Article 64 of the Civil Code states that the MPs of Parliament will not be able to participate in any discussion when they are on the stand alone, which is where you are now. As a matter of fact, when the Constitutional Commission was holding talks on the Civil Code, all political party groups probably filed a motion. After the commission has submitted its motion to explain its owner's motion, the government will ask if the government has joined anyone who is effective there, who is in charge. The Civil Code, which we're currently interviewing, is asking the Deputy Speaker of Parliament for a motion on behalf of the Speaker of Parliament. There, I am neutral, and I can't say anything about not participating or disagreeing. The amendment to the Civil Code is the work and basis of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. As a matter of fact, the Speaker and the Vice President are obliged to express their views on the motions adopted by the commission. The ruling on the 64th Article of the Civil Code is clear and clear, and I think it is clear that Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, who is sitting in the Parliamentary Chair, who is sitting in the parliament chair, who can't participate in the debates and not express his opinion, and the objection that Mr. Mehmet Sütın is sitting there right now, frankly, the occupation of the table there, the commission lines, is a move against the national will.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0325par0047	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0321par0048	One at a time, Mr. Hamzacebi. Your Honor, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0325par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0321par0050	No, after you've spoken, Mr. Shandir has asked for a word. Let him give his opinion.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0325par0051	Let Mr. Shandir speak, and I'll speak later.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0326par0052	Mr. President, we're actually moving on to an important meeting. Whether you allow it -- there is a place in the Civil Charter, and we are having a discussion -- if we speak from the platform, and everyone listens, and hears our words, it may be a better way for us to compromise.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0327par0053	There's nothing to do with the procedure, Mr. President, we're on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0328par0054	No... wait a minute... wait a minute... Now, I need to understand that I have to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0329par0056	It just doesn't work. There's not much purpose in this noise. So, allow the group's vice president to speak to our friends from the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0328par0057	You want a formal debate?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0329par0058	In that sense, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0328par0059	Your demands are different. Now you've requested it. There's no request for a formal discussion in the previous speech.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0329par0060	Mr. President, I'm going to say something to the argument your friends started, but let us say it from the stand, so everyone understands what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0330par0061	Mr. President, I have no request for a formal debate. Let's discuss a procedure with Mr. Shandır from the discussion I've brought up...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0331par0062	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0332par0063	But there's no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0333par0064	Now, that's where the real trouble comes from, that's where it comes from.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0334par0065	Mr. President, if Mr. Shandir...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0335par0066	The point of standing in front of the bench and talking is to tell you what we're talking about.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0333par0067	If you'll excuse me, everyone, let me have everyone's opinion, let me have their opinion, no harm, don't stand up. Now that we're discussing the procedure...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0335par0068	Mr. President, I mean, the point of getting up here and talking is to tell you what we're talking about. It's not like that, but we have some things we need to tell our friends.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0333par0069	All right, fine, I'll start a discussion.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0336par0070	Mr. President, one second, I have a request to speak.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0337par0071	Mr. President, it's not like everyone has a way of speaking when they want to.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0336par0072	Just a second... please... I'll give you my word, then I'll give it to you. You said.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0074	It's not appropriate, and I know it is, but...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0336par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0076	So in order to find a compromise...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0339par0077	Mr. President, the procedural debate...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0336par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0079	...we've been trying for several days to see if we can find a middle ground, but no one understands what anyone's saying in this environment.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0339par0080	Sir, call him to the stand and we'll talk.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0081	If you'll excuse me, I'm opening this discussion. First...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0340par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0083	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0340par0084	But, Mr. President, I beg you. You said: "Wait a second, Mr. Shandır asked you before...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0085	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0341par0086	Sir, he can't talk when he wants to.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0340par0087	I'll give it to him first, then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0088	Here you go, you talked, talk to me one more time, that's all right.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0340par0089	Sir, I don't mind if I...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0090	I don't mind, but one at a time. Look, if everyone talks from one side, we can't come to any conclusions. Right or wrong, but let's make a decision by listening to each other.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0342par0091	Mr. President, all speeches at the Turkish Grand National Assembly are held from the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0092	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0342par0093	You call him to the stand, Mr. Shandır will pass, and then you will call us...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0094	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0342par0095	...you're going to call the Deputy Director of the Group, and we're going to state our opinion.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0096	Okay, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0343par0097	Then, Mr. President, aside from the context of the procedure debate, let's all express our views from the stand, if you'd be so kind.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0098	Not everyone, you tell them where it is in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0344par0099	Promise me four groups.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0100	I'll promise four groups, the procedural debate...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0345par0101	Sir, Mr. President, now, I...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0102	Yes, because even if you don't say so, Mr. Shandir says, "Let's have a discussion of the law." I'm obliged to consider this request.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0346par0103	Sir, call him to the stand, we'll talk, we'll talk.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0104	Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0347par0106	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I haven't finished my sentence, I'll finish my sentence.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0107	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0348par0108	Mr. President, let him finish his sentence there.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0109	Sir?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0348par0110	Let him finish his sentence here.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0111	Who?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0348par0112	It's not in order.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0349par0113	Mr. President, I am in accordance with the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0115	Please, dear MPs, please... I invite you to rest, please... [[Noises]] Look, we can try to understand everything by talking, mutually speaking. Please, this is not the way to do it. That's not true, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0350par0119	Now, Mr. President, I...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0120	But I can't understand what you're saying now, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0350par0121	Mr. Mehmet Sütlı is not allowed to sit in the commissions of the Constitution... (a group of CHP MPs gathered on the speaker stand) [AK PARTY ranks ▪Bravo (!) Their voices, applause (!)
tbmm-2012-02-08sit03spe0338par0123	I'm gonna take a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'm gonna invite the group presidents to the rear.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0338par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[CHP and BDP Group MPs have been seen meeting around the bench]] We will resume negotiations with the Interior Charter Change Proposal in 156 rows. (Bravo) (!) (sounds, applause)) Commission? Here. Representative to the presidency? Here. I'll ask our friends. Naturally, you may have a lot of objections to this offer, you may have objections to this offer, you may have suggestions, but in this way, when the Civil Code is spoken, we have no chance of taking it against the Civil Code. So, without further ado, without further ado, the House...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0351par0007	You're making me nervous, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0338par0008	Whatever we're going to do, we're going to do according to the existing Civil Code. I, too, am obliged to rule according to the Civil Code, and I do not commit any bylaws in my own way. So we'll pick up where we left off.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0351par0009	How do we proceed, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0352par0011	Mr. President, according to 68, the session is adjourned for more than an hour. So, since you've taken a break from this session for more than an hour, I'd like you to consider the continuation of this merger...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0353par0012	Mr. President, you've invited the members of the group to meet.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0354par0013	We decided that together, we negotiated inside, and you were there.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0355par0014	Sir, we can't be together, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0354par0015	No, we've invited members of the group to negotiate.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0355par0016	No, you can't make a deal against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0356par0017	Stick to the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0357par0018	The current image is in accordance with the Civil Code, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0355par0019	Mr. President, you can't make deals with the members of the group, against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0358par0020	By acting in accordance with the Civil Code... since it's been more than an hour, we can't sustain it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0359par0021	You see, there are no terms.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0358par0022	We can't sustain it. It's not gonna happen, we can't keep it up.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0359par0023	No, why are you taking a break? You're taking a break because there's no way to speak on the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0360par0024	Now, we didn't take a break according to 68, so we took a break to negotiate. What you said was true according to 68. So we didn't take a break according to 68.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0361par0025	Then why did the Court Clerk change?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0362par0026	Sir, under the circumstances, there's no need to force it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0360par0027	If you'll excuse us, we'll continue the oral questions and answers from where we left off on 1/2/2012 last semester.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0362par0029	Mr. President, this painting does not suit the House. Mr. Speaker, you are the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is unbecoming...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0360par0030	What do we do? I'm trying to run this place in accordance with the Civil Code, but together, we're trying to rule this House.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0362par0031	Please, let's act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0360par0032	But if everyone thinks this image is right, let's move on.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0362par0033	Let us act according to the Civil Code. Your opposition isn't skinnier than hair. I mean, if our necks are thin, we can't say for sure.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0360par0034	Yeah, well, if it's helpful, let's keep going. I have nothing to say.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0363par0035	You can't say anything, Mr. President. You can't say anything. Just call off the session.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0364par0036	Mr. President, let's move on, let's move on.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0360par0037	Don't tell me, everybody tell everybody.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0365par0038	We want democracy, democracy!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0360par0039	Yeah, well, if it's helpful, let's keep going, that's what I'm gonna say. Yeah, well, if we're benefiting, if we're giving a good view for Turkey, let's keep going.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0366par0040	You have to close according to 68, Mr. President, according to 68, there is no other way.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0367par0041	There are no negotiations, Mr. President, so you have to close the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0368par0042	15 million people are standing now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0369par0043	It's just democracy, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit04spe0370par0044	Yeah, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[CHP Group MPs were seen meeting around the bench]] We will resume negotiations with the Interior Charter Change Proposal in 156 rows. [A standing ovation from CHP MPs gathered in front of the bench (!) And the noise.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0371par0004	We're out, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0005	Commission? He's in position. Representative to the presidency? He's in position.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0371par0007	The House isn't working because of the noise. You haven't been able to run this House for two hours. You are in charge. Please apply the Civil Law. You have to implement the Civil Code, Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek. This isn't your father's stand.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0008	Now, in the 61st article of 3/2/2012, talks were completed on the entire proposal, which was considered to be the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. [Church MPs gathered in front of the bench, standing, standing, and clapping sharply [!]
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0372par0009	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code of 68, we urge you to implement the Civil Code. You've had a ten-minute break, but you've been gone for two hours.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0010	Now, let's move on to the question-answer part. We'll do the questions and answers in 20 minutes. [Church MPs gathered in front of the bench, standing, standing, and clapping sharply [!]
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0372par0011	Mr. President, you can't allow this actual violation of the Civil Code. Turkey is a state of law. The legislature of Parliament must uphold the law.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0012	During the last session, there were friends who entered the system for questions, reading their names. [ CHP MPs gathered in front of the court, standing, standing and clapping sharply.]
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0372par0013	Do as the law requires, please.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0014	I guess that's not the law, that's not the law.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0372par0015	You do the law, sir. You will do according to the Civil Code 68.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0373par0016	You can't take this to this point, Mr. President. Can't you see how serious we are? You won't be able to afford it.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0017	I didn't take a break according to 68, and I didn't take a break according to 68. [Church MPs gathered in front of the bench, standing, standing, and clapping sharply [!]
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0372par0018	Mr. President, we can't allow pleasure management. That's not true!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0019	Please read: Mr. Akar, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Sun, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Onur, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Öğün...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0372par0021	That's not true! Mr. President, we will not allow orders from wherever they come from.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0023	I keep reading: Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Trust, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Illum, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Sourshi, Mr. Earth. [Church MPs gathered in front of the bench, standing, standing, and clapping sharply [!]
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0372par0025	We condemn your unlawful conduct. We invite the Civil Charter 68.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0026	If anyone wants to ask any questions, get them in the system, I promise.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0372par0028	Apply the Civil Code 68, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0029	Or I will decide that the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0374par0031	Please apply the Civil Code 68, you have been ordered to do so.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0032	Please take your seat, please, please...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0374par0033	There's no way we're gonna let him.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0034	You go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0374par0035	Do you like it so much that the House is in this state? Don't you see what you've done to the House? [A group of CHP MPs gathered in front of the council (P.R.P.D.) (P.D.) Step down from the flower! Their voices, standing, constantly and strongly applauding (!)
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0036	Yes, please take your seat, and we'll discuss it from there.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0375par0037	Article 68 is open.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0038	68 fights, is there a fight? Please... If anyone would like to enter the system regarding the question-and-answer part of the entire proposal, please enter.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0375par0040	God forbid the heavy consequences... you're responsible for what's about to happen! [Resigning flowers from a group of CHP MPs gathered in front of the bench]
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0041	Since there are no questions asked, the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that those who do not accept... those who do not... are accepted. [A group of CHP MPs gathered in front of the bench ▪ Yeh! Their voices, standing, constantly and violently applauding (!) We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 9. Anybody want a word on chapter one?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0376par0046	No, we can't track it, you can't allow it, we can't track the meetings as a group.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0047	Sit down, sit down, please, I'll ask you. [A group of CHP MPs gathered in front of the council (P.R.P.D.) (P.D.) Step down from the flower! Their voices, standing, constantly and strongly applauding (!) But due to the invasion of the bench, the House...
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0376par0049	Mr. President, we as a group cannot monitor the session.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0050	Okay, Mr. Vural, why don't you have a seat, and I'll explain, then. So, now, I'd like to say, where is it that the log is occupied? Can the problem be solved by occupying the bench?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0376par0052	You're occupying the bench, then.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0053	Why am I invading?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0376par0054	Apply the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0055	I'm implementing the Civil Code. [A group of CHP MPs gathered in front of the council (P.R.P.D.) (P.D.) Step down from the flower! Their voices, standing, constantly and strongly applauding (!) I don't do it, I don't want to do it, but this House has never seen or deserved such an invasion, and I don't find it right. What's the meaning of this Civil Code if everyone who doesn't have what they want will occupy the bench from now on?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0376par0057	Let's say we apply 68.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0058	I understand, well, apply the 68. But show me a clause of this occupation in the Civil Code, show me a clause of this image in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0376par0059	This is not the Saddam Assembly, not the Assad Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0061	Show a reason for this, show a clause in the Civil Code! If he's going to occupy the bench he doesn't want, then how will this House work?
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0377par0063	You're responsible for what happens, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0378par0064	Mr. President, I'm telling you to enforce the Civil Code!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit05spe0370par0065	If we're going to negotiate by occupying the bench from now on, if that's how we're going to solve the problems, then what good is this Civil Code going to do, and that's what I'm asking. [[A group of CHP MPs gathered in front of the bench.]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit06spe0370par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[CHP and BDP Group MPs have been seen meeting around the bench]] We will resume negotiations with the Interior Charter Change Proposal in 156 rows. The commission and the presidential representative are here. [[Republican and BDP MPs gathered in front of the bench, standing and applauding.]] Let me explain something, and after that, if you're gonna clap again, you're gonna do it. I have to explain something, but if you're gonna clap, do it again... Congressmans, this Parliament has been through a lot, a lot of trouble. But it doesn't deserve such an image, it doesn't deserve a political institution, and it's not quite right for our occupational Assembly, nor for the Civil Code. I'd like to say that in order to make a note of history. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'm re-invited to re-invite the group presidents.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0370par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0379par0003	You've shown disrespect, Mr. President, you've neglected your duty, you're not doing it. Apologize to everyone! Apologize to everyone! That's not gonna happen, honey!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0370par0004	We will resume negotiations with the Interior Charter Change Proposal in 156 rows.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0380par0005	It's been two hours.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0379par0006	All your dignity, it's all over now!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0370par0007	Now, I give you my word on chapter one.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0379par0008	Mr. President, it's been two hours! Apologize!
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0370par0009	Mr. Yehia Akman... [AK PARTY] A round of applause from CHP Group MPs gathered around the bench (!)
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0379par0010	Now, Mr. President, it's been two hours, apologize! [AK PARTY desks ▪ Sit down instead of the voices, noise; constantly clapping from CHP Group MPs gathered around the bench (!) Mr. President, I'm starting a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-08sit07spe0370par0013	[[Yehia Akman is facing the bench, preventing CHP MPs, and allowing the EC PARTY and CHP MPs to march on each other.]] I'm shutting down the merger because there's no way we can meet.
